Response to the National Science Foundation’s and Office of Science & Technology Policy’s  
Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
90 Fed. Reg. 9088 (Feb. 6, 2025) 
Docket No. NSF_FRDOC_0001 
March 15, 2025 
Thank you for the opportunity to offer comments on the development of a national artificial 
intelligence (AI) action plan. On behalf of the Connected Commerce Council (3C) — a nonprofit 
organization dedicated to ensuring small businesses have the digital tools they need to thrive in 
today’s economy — I urge you to prioritize policies that will ensure small businesses’ ongoing 
access to and adoption of AI-powered tools.  
AI is a game-changer for America’s 33.2 million  small businesses. Its remarkable speed, 
“trainability,” and scalability significantly enhance small businesses’ efficiency and growth 
potential. AI-powered tools can, for example, improve marketing and advertising, streamline 
inventory management, boost customer service in e-commerce, and provide valuable data 
analysis that helps small-business owners make smarter decisions and reduce costs. By 
leveraging AI-powered tools, small businesses can level the playing field and compete against 
much bigger companies. But these benefits can only be realized if small business leaders understand how to use 
AI-powered tools — and, more fundamentally, are able to access them. Accordingly, we suggest 
policymakers focus on three key areas:  
1.Promoting AI literacy and training to help small businesses effectively adopt and
utilize AI technologies.
2.Avoiding overly burdensome regulations that disproportionately impact small
businesses and hinder innovation.
3.Establishing a federal AI privacy framework to avoid a patchwork of state laws,
simplifying compliance and encouraging adoption of AI tools by small businesses.
Policymakers should support access to AI-powered tools by investing in small 
business-focused AI literacy and training programs. Given AI tools’ newness, many small 
business owners and employees may not know how to effectively harness them. To help them 1 


learn, we suggest establishing partnerships among government agencies, universities, and 
technology companies. Such partnerships would help small business leaders learn how to harness 
AI-powered tools, and also help policymakers and tech leaders better understand how small 
businesses use — or could benefit from using — new AI-powered tools. Smart partnerships 
could help enhance small businesses’ AI-powered efficiency; keep tech leaders abreast of small 
business needs and opportunities; and inform thoughtful policies that benefit small businesses. 
We also urge policymakers to avoid overregulating AI-powered tools. We particularly caution 
against a “one-size-fits-all” regulatory approach that treats all AI applications as high-risk. Small 
businesses overwhelmingly use AI for low-risk, non-sensitive applications like marketing and 
customer service. If those uses are subject to costly, time-consuming regulatory compliance 
requirements, small businesses won’t be able to afford them. That means AI-powered tools will 
be available only to bigger businesses with bigger budgets — putting small businesses at an 
enormous competitive disadvantage and squandering AI’s efficiency-generating potential.  Accordingly, we suggest policymakers  focus on regulating AI-powered applications in 
sensitive contexts such as healthcare, finance, and law enforcement, rather than broadly 
restricting AI development. Similarly, regulations aimed at protecting consumer privacy should 
focus on AI outputs — such as how AI-generated content is used — rather than restricting AI 
inputs, which could slow AI development and innovation. Finally, we suggest regulators avoid 
making all users of AI models liable for potential misuse or flaws in AI systems, as doing so 
makes AI use prohibitively legally risky for small businesses.  Perhaps most importantly, we strongly recommend developing a comprehensive federal AI 
privacy framework that supersedes state laws and avoids a haphazard “patchwork” of 
state-level regulations like that currently governing data privacy. Without a federal framework in 
place, AI compliance — and therefore AI-tool adoption — will be simply too complex, costly, 
and legally risky for small businesses. Moreover, any federal-level policies must — while 
protecting individuals’ privacy — bear in mind that training AI models requires publicly 
available data. We recommend a balanced approach to data and copyright regulations and 
particularly encourage a fair use-based approach to copyright questions, as well as text- and 
data-mining exemptions. This approach will ensure ongoing innovation and development of 
top-tier AI models, benefitting U.S. businesses of all sizes. Indeed, a federal standard that 
provides a smart alternative to overly restrictive European AI privacy laws is critical to 
maintaining and enhancing America’s leadership in AI innovation and adoption.  Fundamentally, 3C seeks not only to ensure that small businesses have the digital tools they need 
to thrive, but that America’s technological, policy, and legal ecosystems continue to foster tools 
that allow America’s businesses and economy to flourish. We look forward to working with 
policymakers to ensure U.S. innovation, leadership, and small-business success in today’s digital 
economy. 
2 


