AI Action Plan RFI Response 
The Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI) is an international scientific 
society that works to advance understanding of the underlying mechanisms of thought and 
intelligent behavior that are embodied in machines. AAAI is composed of over 8,000 members who 
work in a wide array of research and development activities related to artificial intelligence (AI) 
across academia, government, and industry. AAAI is a 46 -year -old organization that brings t ogether 
AI researchers and practitioners to promote research on and responsible use of AI, increase public 
understanding of AI, inform the future directions of AI research and development (R&D), and 
encourage international collaboration.  
AAAI is supportive of efforts to promote human and economic flourishing, as well as national 
security, as laid out in Executive Order (EO) 14179 on Removing Barriers to American Leadership in 
Artificial Intelligence .1 To ensure that the US remains a leader in AI research and development 
(R&D), it must establish targeted efforts that promote innovation while ensuring systems stay safe 
and secure. As the US strives for excellence in AI innovation, it must sustain support  for 
fundamental AI R&D that serves as the foundation for revolutionary discoveries, strengthen 
collaboration with its partners and allies, and promote the secure development and deployment of 
AI systems. The following comments serve to inform the developm ent of a federal AI Action Plan, 
providing insight into the needs and policy priorities of the vast array of AI researchers, experts, and 
practitioners who make up AAAI.  
1. Increase Resources for Fundamental AI Research
Fundamental research and scientific understanding are vital to the advancement of key 
technologies in any field of endeavor. Fundamental research means research in science, 
engineering, or mathematics, the results of which ordinarily are published and shar ed broadly 
within the research community, and for which the researchers have not accepted restrictions for 
proprietary or national security reasons2. Fundamental AI research is necessary for future 
innovation as advancements and emerging technology development invariably rely on a 
comprehensive understanding of fundamental principles. The United States has already enabled 
significant technological adv ances in AI through federal funding, and this leadership should 
continue. Examples include NSF’s decades of investment in stochastic modeling, neural networks, 
and reinforcement learning3, DARPA’s investment in deep learning (leading to a Nobel Prize), 
autonomous driving, personal assistants, and Air Force Research investments in reinforcement 
learning (leading to a Turing Award). See the Appendix below for more details on these success 
stories.  
1 Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence – The White House  
2 Export Administration Regulations, Part 734.8 (c), 
https://resources.uta.edu/research/_documents/rs_documents/734.pdf  
3 NSF Impacts from Investments: Artificial Intelligence - National Science Foundation  


Similar research investments are crucial in the current age of AI for continuing to achieve 
technological breakthroughs, solve complex problems, enhance education, and foster innovation. 
The advent of LLM technology has provided significant advances, but i t has also exposed technical 
limitations that remain to be addressed and will benefit from cross -fertilization with techniques 
emerging within other AI subdisciplines. In the same way that previously underappreciated work in 
neural network models was later  found to be instrumental to fundamental advances in the field, it 
is essential that future basic research funding cultivate many different approaches, not just the 
most prominent or popular, to maximize opportunities for overall advancement in the field a nd the 
industries that emerge to apply these advances to achieve positive societal impact.  
Under the first Trump Administration, $140 million was awarded to seven national AI Research 
Institutes working across a range of key AI R&D areas, including machine learning, precision 
agriculture, and synthetic manufacturing.4 This investment supports revolutionary fundamental 
research and subsequent innovation at higher education institutions across the country. 
Investments like these are key to ensuring a solid foundation is in place to spur transformative 
advancements in AI and protect US leadership in AI R&D. Existing investments in novel AI R&D 
programming like the National AI Research Institutes must continue to be sustained and protected. 
As stated by the Director of the National Science Foundation, “The National AI Resea rch Institutes 
are a critical component of our nation's AI innovation, infrastructure, technology, education and 
partnerships ecosystem. These institutes are driving discoveries that will ensure our country is at 
the forefront of the global AI revolution.”5  
Further, in 2021, President Trump called to double investments in nondefense AI R&D, noting that 
the President’s budget would prioritize substantial investments in industries of the future.6 The 
current Administration should continue to prioritize historic investment in critical technologies like 
AI that ensure our national security and scientific leadership. Robust support must be provided for 
innovation across the full spectrum of AI R&D, a s fundamental AI research is critical to the creation 
and deployment of AI systems that provide revolutionary and trustworthy societal solutions.  
We recommend the following AI policy actions:  
●Include increasing federal investment in AI R&D in the President’s Budget Request each
year.
● Support the NSF NAIRR and publicize the benefits it brings to the U.S. economy, academia,
industry, non -profit, and government sectors.
● Establish a national award to incentivize and recognize AI technology advances.
● Request funding for graduate student research fellowships to attract, cultivate, and
promote the best AI talent.
4 The Trump Administration Is Investing $1 Billion in Research Institutes to Advance Industries of the Future – 
The White House  
5 NSF announces 7 new National Artificial Intelligence Research Institutes | NSF - National Science 
Foundation  
6 President Trump’s FY 2021 Budget Commits to Double Investments in Key Industries of the Future – The 
White House  


● Request funding for partnerships between universities and industry to increase the real -
world impact of academic innovations.
2. Create Secure AI Development Standards
It is vital to ensure AI systems deployed across the US remain secure. To this end, the US must 
ensure it leads in developing standards for the development process that can mitigate risks in 
advanced technological systems, especially artificial intelligenc e. The National Institute Standards 
and Technology (NIST) should play a critical role by setting the precedent for developing secure 
systems through policies, standards setting, and cutting -edge research. Key initiatives like the NIST 
US AI Safety Institut e ensure we not only identify and measure but also minimize risk through 
testing, evaluation, and establishing guidelines for trustworthy systems. Rapid AI innovation will 
depend on our ability to safeguard against harm and influence at all points in the d evelopment 
process. This will, in turn, increase the effectiveness and efficiency of systems. The US should 
strengthen NIST’s ability to secure our AI systems by maintaining a strong workforce able to 
articulate the best guidance to AI developers while ens uring the relevant requirements are not 
unnecessarily burdensome. In addition, all agencies across the federal landscape should be 
encouraged to support programs and initiatives that prioritize safe and secure systems 
development.  
We recommend the following AI policy actions:  
● Request increased funding in the NIST AI Safety Institute and grow its workforce by 10%
each year to ensure the ability to address and respond to new AI innovations.
● Solicit input from industry, academia, non -profits, government agencies, and international
collaborators to inform standards development while addressing both security and
feasibility.
3. Lead International AI Collaborations
While the US should strive to sustain leadership in AI development, maintaining our position as a 
key collaborator with allies and global partners will also remain critical. Global partnerships will be 
key in making viable technological advancements and fortifying national security through shared 
technological capabilities . For example, a core pillar of the US defense agreement with the UK and 
Australia (AUKUS) is enhancing joint capabilities and interoperability between the three nations. 
Since its announcement, this partnership has resulted in a $3 billion promised invest ment in US 
military capability by Australia, of which $500 million has already been paid.7 AUKUS exemplifies 
the kinds of partnerships the US should be engaged in. Translating this spirit of cooperation to 
technological policies will be key to ensuring the US can make rapid advancements, maintain 
global technological leadership, and fortify nat ional security. The US should continue collaborative 
7 Shared Challenges, AUKUS Partnership Top Topics as U.S., Australian Defense Leaders Meet for First Time 
> U.S. Department of Defense > Defense Department News


efforts to support AI research in and standardize AI policies with existing allies, like the UK, while 
exploring opportunities to join forces with like -minded nations.  
AAAI fosters this spirit of collaboration within our Association through an international 
membership. International partnerships present the opportunity to share resources and research 
findings among a wide array of experts and can lead to a faster adoptio n of standardized AI 
governance that upholds democratic values and fosters fair competition. International 
collaboration expands access to a broader range of experts who can work together to innovate AI 
systems.  
We recommend the following AI policy actions:  
● Convene public, periodic international meetings of experts to discuss the latest challenges
and questions raised by AI technological advances, demonstrating US leadership and
attention to the key issues.
● Incentivize and encourage open -source releases of AI advances and data sets.
Thank you for your hard work in developing a national AI Action Plan and for providing the 
opportunity to offer advice and recommendations.  AAAI stands ready to serve as a non -partisan 
source of technical expertise on artificial intelligence.  
Appendix: Artificial Intelligence Innovations enabled by Federal Funding  
● Deep Learning  - The basic neural network (NN) architecture and back propagation learning
algorithms that underlie the currently dominating Deep Learning  approach to development
of AI models were first invented in the mid 1980s by Geoff Hinton and others8 with the
support of block grants for foundational computer science and AI research provided by
DARPA to various academic institutions. These algorithms were found to perform relatively
poorly at the time due to their inability to scale to any problem of practical interest, and it
wasn’t until years later when advances in computer hardware overcame the scalability
problem and unleashed the power of Deep Learning. Geoff Hinton and his col leagues Yann
LeCun and Yoshua Bengio received the Turing Award in 2018 for these contributions. In
2024 , Hinton was also awarded  the Nobel Prize in Physics jointly with John Hopfield for this
same foundational work.9
8 D.E. Rumelhart, G.E. Hinton, R.J. Williams, “ Learning representations by back -propagating errors”, Nature, 
323, 533 -536, 1986
9 https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/physics/2024/press -release/  


● Autonomous Driving  – Today’s vast autonomous driving industry similarly owes its
existence to basic scientific research carried out in US academic institutions with
significant investment of federal research funds. Over the period from 2004 -2007, DARPA
sponsored a series of  3 autonomous driving competitions, starting with an off-road race
through the desert and culminating with an urban driving competition, that resulted in
accelerated innovation and maturation of techniques that now underpin today’s
autonomous driving industry.10
● Personal Assistants  – Over the 5 -year period from 2003 - 2008, the DARPA Personalized
Assistant that Learns (PAL) program brought together over 300 researchers from 25 of the
top university and commercial research institutions with the goal of building a new
generation of co gnitive assistants that can reason, learn from experience, be told what to
do, explain what they are doing, reflect on their experience and respond robustly to
surprise. Technologies created under this program provided the foundation for Apple’s Siri
assis tant , and this innovation has triggered broad growth in personal assistant
technologies.
● Reinforcement Learning  – The explosion of Large Language Models (LLMs) on the AI scene
over the past couple of years and companies with LLM offerings like OpenAI, Anthropic,
Meta, Microsoft, and others also owe their success to earlier innovation of federally funded
basic AI re search. Reinforcement Learning (RL), the central learning mechanism used for
building LLMs, was originally developed by Andrew Barto and Richard Sutton under funding
from the Air Force Office of Scientific Research and the Air Force Research Lab in the ear ly
1980s, and like Deep Learning techniques was not fully appreciated until computer
hardware advances allowed broader application. Just this past week, Barto and Sutton
received this year’s Turing Award.11
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
10 https://www.darpa.mil/news/2014/grand -challenge -ten-years -later  
11 https://www.nytimes.com/2025/03/05/technology/turing -award -andrew -barto -richard -sutton.html  


