American Academy of Nursing  
1000 Vermont Ave NW | Suite 910 | Washington, DC 20005  
 | www.aannet.org  March 14, 2025  
Kirk Dohne  
Acting Director  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) 
National Coordination Office (NCO)  
National Science Foundation  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Dear Mr. Dohne,  
The American Academy of Nursing (Academy) is pleased to offer the following comments in 
response to the February 6, 2025, request for information on the development of an artificial 
intelligence (AI) action plan. As requested in the RFI, this document is a pproved for public 
dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. 
Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and 
associated documents without attribution. With more than 3,2 00 Fellows, the Academy —an 
honorific society and policy organization —represents nursing’s most accomplished leaders in 
policy, research, administration, practice, and academia. Collectively with our Fellows and 
partners, the Academy aims to create solution s that matter, inspire change that propels 
transformation, and envision a healthier future. Through intentional actions, the Academy 
advances its vision of Healthy Lives for All People . 
AI is no longer novel yet continues to evolve and is currently being utilized in a multitude of 
ways. This technology assists predicting outcomes, supporting health care professionals’ 
documentation burden through ambient charting, and recommending treatment s for patients. 
The implications for the health care workforce and health care delivery are still emerging — 
creating a potential gateway to greater efficiencies and reduced burden on clinicians. While 
there are clear and relevant efficiencies created throu gh AI, the Academy remains concerned 
that the technology could further exacerbate access to care, patient safety, and privacy.  
Attention to Ethical Issues  
The National Science Foundation (NSF) will need to consider the ethical issues associated with 
AI as it develops the AI Action Plan. Through different venues, the Academy has long advocated 
for all patients to have access to information, education, and secure privacy related to their 
health care.1 As AI plays an increasingly important role in the provision of patient care, 
research, and education, it is imperative that patients and consumers are aware of the 
opportunities and limitations of AI in their own health care. We encourage the NSF to take t his 
into consideration as it develops the AI Action Plan. 


Page | 2 
Consideration of Patient, Clinician, and System Burden  
The Academy also recommends NSF consider patient, provider, and system burden as the AI 
Action Plan is developed. The Academy supports efforts to reduce regulatory and redundancy 
burdens on daily practice while balancing patient privacy protections. In order to achieve the 
goal of placing the patient at the center of care delivery, policies must equally support clinicians 
and systems. The expected learning  curve for providers as well as patient communities will need 
to be considered, and we encourage NSF to seek public input from patients, nurses, and systems 
on how to promote the benefits of using AI while also reducing burdens of use. Nurses will be 
key t o educating patients in this process.  
The implications for the health care workforce and health care delivery are still emerging, 
creating a potential gateway to greater efficiencies and reduced burden on clinicians. AI has the 
potential to disrupt and transform health care. It can be a tool i n population health 
management, clinical decision making, workforce flow, and documentation. However, AI and 
machine learning could further exacerbate access issues in individualized care, patient safety, 
and impact the wellness of clinicians. The voices o f nurses who are experts in AI will be vital in 
managing the short -term and long -term benefits and risks of AI to the nation's health as 
legislation and federal regulations continue to emerge. Many of the Academy’s Fellows are 
esteemed leaders in machine l earning, digital health, and AI who can be a resource as NSF 
develops the AI Action Plan.  
Additionally, while AI can reduce the burdens of administrative and documentation tasks by 
allowing nurses to focus on patient care, the critical thinking and clinical judgment of nurses 
cannot be replaced by AI2 nor can it replace the human connection that is central to the nurse -
patient relationship. As such, nurses may have concerns regarding AI replacing their roles as 
nurses as well as how this technology could threaten the quality of care and safety of patie nts.3 
AI cannot replace the interpersonal skills that nurses utilize when caring for patients.  
Data Accuracy, Validity, and Reliability  
AI and its impact on improving patient care, the nursing workforce, research, and the health 
care system are of significant interest to the Academy. At the same time, data limitations can 
also affect these same areas and potentially erode trust, create pri vacy breaches, open systems 
to abuse or misuse, and most concerning, harm patients. The quality of the data used for AI has 
a direct correlation on the magnitude and nature of the consequences should an AI tool fail. 
Individual data points need to be captu red seamlessly, completely, accurately, consistently, and 
in a standardized format to improve the use of electronic health data for AI and AI algorithms. 
To this extent, the Academy supports continued efforts to federally support further work on 
data and h ealth information technology standards. In order to capitalize on AI in the health care 
industry, it will be critical to continue development of these standards. Furthermore, use of 
comprehensive data sources, inter -professional clinical data, and patient reported outcomes is 
essential to the development of AI solutions.  


Page | 3 
Emphasize and Invest in AI Research  
The Academy recommends that the AI Action Plan includes investment in research and post -
market surveillance to monitor the impact of deployed AI. Innovation in the health care 
industry, as well as emerging practices around AI, must be tested and advanced f or heightened 
impact and outcomes. Furthermore, we encourage further investments in the research being 
conducted at the National Institutes of Health to support the use of AI in health care.  
The Academy appreciates the opportunity to provide comments in response to the request for 
information regarding the AI Action Plan. The Academy stands ready to work with you to 
provide expertise and shape AI policy solutions. If you have any questions or need additional 
information, please feel free to contact the Academy’s Chief Policy Officer, Christine Murphy, at 
Sincerely,  
Linda D. Scott, PhD, RN, NEA -BC, FADLN, FNAP, FAAN  
President, American Academy of Nursing  
1 Starkweather, A. R., Coleman, B., Barcelona de Mendoza, V., Fu, M. R., Menzies, V., O’Keefe, M., & Williams, J. K. 
(2018). Strengthen federal regulation of laboratory -developed and direct -to-consumer genetic testing.  Nursing 
Outlook , 66(1), 101 –104. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.outlook.2017.11.004   
2 Yakusheva, O., Bouvier, M. J., & Hagopian, C. O. P. (2024). How Artificial Intelligence is altering the nursing 
workforce. Nursing Outlook , 73(1), 102300. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.outlook.2024.102300   
3 Simpson, R. L. (2024). How nurses can conquer their fear of AI. American Nurse Journal , 19(1), 68. 
https://doi.org/10.51256/anj012468   


