February 27, 2025  
Electronic Submission via: ostp-ai-rfi@nitrd.gov  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD)  
National Coordination Office (NCO)  
National Science Foundation  
490 L’Enfant Plaza SW, Suite 8001 
Washington, DC 20024  
RE: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence ( AI) Action Plan 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
To Whom It Ma y Concern: 
The Americ an Association of Nurse Anesthesiology (AANA) welcomes the opportunity to comment on this 
Request for Information  and provide input regarding the development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan.  
AANA is the prof essional association for Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists (CRNAs) and student 
registered nurse anesthetists ( SRNAs). AANA membership includes more than 65,000 CRNAs and SRNAs, 
representing about 88 percent of the nurse anesthetists in the United States. CRNAs are advanced practice registered nurses (APRNs) who personally administer more than 58 million anesthetics to patients each year 
in the United States. For further information, see: https://www.aana.com/about-us/ .  
As AI tech nology continues to evolve and integrate into healthcare, it is critical that patient safety remains a 
top priority, especially in clinical environments where CRNAs play a vital role in delivering high-quality 
anesthesia care.  CRNAs are highly trained advanced practice providers who ensure safe and effective 
anesthesia delivery in various healthcare settings, from rural hospitals to major medical centers. Their 
expertise in patient monitoring, medication administration, and emergency intervention is indispensable. As 
AI-driven tools are introduced into anesthesia and perioperative care, they must be designed to complement, 
rather than replace, the clinical judgment and hands -on expertise of CRNAs . 


AI has the potential to enhance patient safety through improved monitoring systems, predictive analytics, 
and real-time decision support. However, the implementation of AI in anesthesia and other high-risk 
medical fields must be approached with caution to prevent unintended consequences, including system failures, algorithmic biases, or over -reliance on automation at the expense of human oversight. To ensure 
safe and effective AI integration in anesthesia care, the AANA urges the inclusion of the following 
recommendations  in the AI Action Plan:  
1.AI as a Su pportive Tool, Not a Replacement  – AI should enhance CRNAs’ ability to deliver safe,
high-quality care rather than replace their extensive knowledge and expertise, critical thinking,
clinical judgment, or direct patient interaction.
2.Robust Patient Safety Standards  – AI systems used in anesthesia and perioperative care must
undergo rigorous validation, real -world testing, and continuous monitoring to ensure their reliability,
accuracy, and safety.  AI can be leveraged  to enhance patient safety through anesthesia depth
monitoring and optimization, improving first -attempt success in vascular access placement and nerve
blocks using ultrasound guidance, and assisting in risk stratification for difficult airway management.
3.Human Oversight and Decision -Making – AI tools must be designed to function under the direct
supervision of CRNAs and other healthcare professionals, ensuring that AI -driven recommendations
are reviewed by qualified providers before implementation.
4.Transparency and Explainability  – AI decision -making processes should be  evidence-based,
transparent and interpretable, allowing CRNAs and other clinicians to understand and trust the
technology they use in patient care.
5.Ethical and Bias Considerations  – AI models should be trained on diverse, representative datasets
to minimize bias and support equitable care and outcomes across all patient populations.   Data on
diverse populations  can support clinician decision making and assessment of patient risk factors  that
impact patient care and may be predictors of perioperative outcomes.
6.Regulatory Safeguards  and Accountability  – The development and deployment of AI in
anesthesia care should be subject to appropriate regulatory safeguards , ensuring that patient safety
remains the top priority.
7.Facility operations – AI can be utilized to enhance operational decision -making, optimizing OR
case scheduling, staffing, and supply management.  These actions can lead to improved  patient wait
times, and more efficient utilization and allocation of resources.
8.Interdisciplinary Collaboration  – The voices of CRNAs, alongside  other healthcare providers must
be included in the discussions and design, testing, and implementation of AI technologies to ensure
that they align with real-world clinical needs.
CRNAs are emerging as thought leaders and experts in healthcare AI. As AI continues to shape the future of 
healthcare, it is imperative that its deployment prioritizes patient safety and enhances, rather than 
undermines, the expertise of CRNAs and other healthcare professionals. We strongly urge that these 
principles be integrated into the AI Action Plan to ensure responsible AI implementati on in anesthesia care 
and broader healthcare applications. 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on this request for information. Should you have any questions 
regarding these matters, please contact AANA Research Analyst, Maya Caballero.  


Sincerely,  
Janet Setn or, MSN, CRNA, Col. (Ret), USAFR, NC  
AANA President  
Cc:  William Bruce , MBA, CAE, AANA Chief Executive Officer  
Shayne Hauglum,  PhD, CRNA, APRN , AANA Chief Science and Practice Officer 
Romy Gelb-Zimmer, AANA Director of Regulatory Affairs  
Ewa Greenier, AANA Director of Professional Practice  
Maya Caballero, AANA Research Analyst – Clinical Practice & Policy  


