To: Faisal D'Souza  
NCO / NITRD  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314  
From:  Matt Hourihan, Associate Vice President for Government Relations and  
Public Policy, Association of American Universities  
Date:  Marc h 15, 2025  
RE: Comme nts in response to 90 FR 9088, R equest for  Information on the 
Development of an Artificial  Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
AAU appreciates the opportunity to respond to the Request for Information on 
the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan.  Our response is 
informed by discussions with AAU Senior Research Officers (SRO) and other stakeholders. AAU also supports the comments submitted by the Energy 
Sciences Coalition, which focus on the Department of Energy (DOE).  
We stand at an inflection point for science and society, with new and emerging 
AI tools promising to fundamentally transform scientific research.
1 If successful, 
these tools will accelerate the pace of experimentation and discovery, catalyze the search for cures, and open new pathways for scientific inquiry – and could 
dramatically increase U.S. economic growth.
2 The Trump Administration is in a 
unique position to strike a path forward and ensure U.S. dominance in AI -
enabled science.  
Our overarching recommendation for the new AI Action Plan is to pursue a focused initiative to accelerate AI for discovery. This initiative should seek to align government investments with industry, universities, and other stakeholders to develop the tools, practices, partnerships, and infrastructure to catalyze scientific progress using AI. Particular near -term actions should focus on:  
• Ensuring computational access  for U.S. scientists and engineers
• Accelerating basic and applied research and development  to enhance AI
methods and tools for science
• Advancing platforms and tools to leverage universities’ unique scientific
data resources
• Strengthening education, training, and immigration policy  to secure an AI -
competent scientific workforce
Such a strategy would build on the progress in AI policy achieved by the first 
Trump Administration and plant the seeds for U.S. dominance in the scientific 
space for years to come.  
1 


Seizing Opportunities 
AI-powered science is happening on AAU campuses across the country in genomics,3 
novel material design,4 digital twins5, robotics6, and other fields. There are several ways AI 
tools can be brought to bear in the conduct of research: organizing and analyzing data and 
images, creating predictive models and simulations, automating experimentation or data 
collection, reading large volume s of scientific literature, and other tasks.  
Federal research yields substantial return on investment7 thanks to the American system 
of innovation – which historically features the combined strength of government, industry, 
and academia. In the AI context, research universities offer particular strengths:  
•Disciplinary expertise, which is important for tackling the biggest challenges in eachscientific field and ensuring AI tools are effectively deployed discipline -by-discipline.
The talented faculty, students, and staff on university campuses are “idea generators, ” and discovery workflows requiring multidisciplinary expertise are where they canparticularly shine.
•With a mission focused on discovery and the lack of a market -driven profit motive,
university researchers are particularly well -suited for basic science and research into
novel AI approaches, alone or in partnership with industry. It also means universitie s
can pursue ethical, transparent science aligned with public missions.
•Training and education are also a core university mission. Industry scalers have amassive appetite for personnel, and universities provide a pipeline.
•Universities are also under -appreciated storehouses of unique scientific data resources
that provide the raw material to drive AI -enabled discovery.
•Universities and university -trained scientists and engineers are effective sources of
spinoff and entrepreneurship.
8
Recommended Elements of an AI for Science Initiative:  
Computational Infrastructure . The massive compute gap between universities and 
industry is well documented.9 However, unlike vaunted frontier models, many discipline -
specific science models may not need the same level of computational horsepower. With this in mind, and building on current investments, the Trump Administration can encourage a robust network for A I-powered science.
10 In the 1960s, the federal 
government worked with universities to establish the ARPANET, the precursor to the modern internet. In the 21st century, the vision should be a similar nationwide network – though this time, a hybrid network, with vast industry data centers and the mighty supercomputers of the Department of Energy alongside universities as partners in discovery. To advance this network vision for AI -enabled science, the Trump 
Administration should:  
•Build support for public compute in the FY 2026 Budget Request.  The National
Science Foundation (NSF) is currently piloting the National AI Research Resource(NAIRR), an effort to give researchers and students access to computational resources,data, models, and testbeds. This initiative should play a core role in the  broader AI -
enabled science strategy and should receive expanded support in the FY 2026 request.


Authorizing legislation for this activity should be an element of the Administration’s 
legislative agenda.  
•Continue or expand support  for other federal infrastructure investments through
critical programs like the NSF Office of Advanced Cyberinfrastructure and the NIHOffice of Research Infrastructure Programs, which support smaller localized assets,and the Department of Energy’s large -scale effort to leverage the computing resour ces
and technical expertise of the DOE lab complex to tackle science challenges, inpartnership with industry and universities.
•Initiate an assessment  to take stock of current investments and identify needs, gaps,
and opportunities for additional investments or policies. This assessment should adopta disciplinary framework, and should also consider the further development of useableand effective secur e computing environments and investments for experimental
hardware research. PCAST may be an appropriate body to pursue such an assessment,working with the National AI Initiative coordinating office.
R&D for Models, Tools, Data, and Applications. Research to improve and refine data assets and AI methods, including new discipline -specific foundation models and robotics 
for automation, is at the core of the AI -enabled science endeavor. To advance this area, 
the Trump Administration should:  
•Build support for basic and applied AI research in the FY 2026 Budget Request.Several agencies have critical initiatives underway – including the NSF AI institutes
established by the first Trump Administration, as well as DOE, NIH, and the Departmentof Defense. The Trump Administration should explore ways to sustain and build suppo rt
for these where appropriate. The Administration should also seek to support datainitiatives like the NSF National Secure Data Service or NIH’s Bridge2AI. In general,
establi shing standards and practices to expand secure and responsible access to
anonymized federal data is a critical step to advance AI -enabled discovery.
•A smart approach to research investment would support projects at multiple scales,
ranging from single PIs to large centers, hubs , and consortia for chemical, cellular,
molecular, and other discovery platforms. The Administration should also incentivize
partnering among  universities, industry, national labs, and nonprofit institutes and seek
opportunities for agile research approaches. Research should also prioritize testing,benchmarking, validation, sharing, and reliability of scientific models, as well asprivacy -preserving AI techniques.
•Research universities are a unique part of the AI ecosystem because of their high -
quality biomedical data assets. AI is nothing without data, and large volumes ofuniversity data could be unlocked for greater impact. The Administration should buildsupport for biomedical data platforms to leverage health data efficiently and at scale.
Doing so will accelerate discoveries, facilitate more personalized, effective, andefficient treatments, and ultimately improve care and quality of life for Americans.
•To unlock U.S. data resources broadly, the Trump Administration should considerestablishing “data observatory” teams  to work with university experts to map
inventories and resources by discipline, develop “wish lists, ” identify bottlenecks, andsuggest solutions to data access and sharing.
11


•The assessment described in the prior section may also evaluate under -studied areas
and scientific grand challenges  that could be particularly suitable for AI approaches
while being mindful of ongoing work.
Human Capital. Harnessing AI -enabled science will require computer scientists, 
programmers, data scientists, software engineers, and technicians to create and manage 
new systems. We’ll also need to ensure interdisciplinary expertise so that roboticists, neuroscientists, chemists, and other experts on university campuses have sufficient 
knowledge and specialized assistance to deploy AI tools. To that end, the Trump 
Administration should:  
•Build support for AI training and education in the FY 2026 Budget Request. Theseinclude programs like NSF’s EducateAI and NIH’s Bridge2AI. An effective federalstrategy will take discipline -specific approaches to curriculum development, boot
camps, and other application- oriented AI training, as well as fellowships and
scholarshi ps. Investments should be inclusive of DOE, DOD, and other agencies.
•Support mobility between academia and industry. Pathways should be supported tomaximize opportunities for students and to ensure that university researchers andindustry stay mutually aware of needs and technology trajectories. These can beachieved through industry embed programs, apprenticeships, and externships. The
Trump Administration should work with industry and other stakeholders – including
community colleges – to understand skill needs and identify gaps , and direct federal
statistical agencies to  collect data on the AI workforce to understand the landscape.
•Attract the very best AI talent from across the globe. The worldwide competition forscientific talent is fierce. The Trump Administration should marshal all resources withinthe Department of State and the Department of Homeland Security to attract and retainforeign nationals seeking to study, work, or condu ct research in artificial intelligence as
well as other critical and emerging technologies. This includes efficient and expeditedprocessing of all petitions and applications and maximized uptake of all nonimmigrantand immigrant visa categories.
Energy . As with other sectors, research universities are affected by high energy costs, and 
energy -intense computation may prove inhibitive for AI -driven discovery. While specific 
recommendations are beyond the scope of this comment, we would generally encourage  
efforts to reduce energy costs and improve grid reliability, which may improve the baseline conditions for AI-enabled discovery.  
The energy challenge also creates the rationale for investing in novel energy -efficient 
techniques for AI and computation – another endeavor in which university researchers 
can play a vital role in partnership with industry and government agencies.
12 
Conclusion  
This moment offers tremendous opportunity to gear federal policy toward AI -enabled 
science for U.S. leadership. Such an opportunity, if missed, won’t return. We encourage the Trump Administration’s efforts to develop an action plan for AI and appreciate the chance to comment.  


This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
1 https://www.nationalacademies.org/our -work/ai -for-scientific -discovery-a- workshop  
2 https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0048733324000866  
3 For example: https://today.ucsd.edu/story/how -artificial- intelligence -could -automate -genomics -research   
4 For example: https://www.pittwire.pitt.edu/pittwire/features- articles/evolution -ai-platform -building -metamaterials   
5 For example: https://www.cs.purdue.edu/news/articles/2024/ai -driven- digital- twins -in-agricultural -research -hold-
the-promise -for-better -crops.html   
6 For example: https://chem.unc.edu/news/study- robotic -automation -ai-will- speed -up-scientific -progress -in-science-
laboratories/  
7 https://www.aei.org/economics/federal- rd-funding- is-even -more -valuable -than-washington- thinks/   
8 https://www.nber.org/be -20212/universities -catalyze- entrepreneurial -culture   
9 https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586 -024-03792 -6  
10 https://www.elsevier.com/connect/ai- for-science-a- paradigm -shift-for-scientific -discovery- and-translation   
11 https://www.aipolicyperspectives.com/p/a -new-golden -age-of-discovery  
12 For example: https://asap.hmntl.illinois.edu/research/theme3   


