OSTP RFI AI Action Plan 
March 14, 2025 
Page 1 
700 Second Street NE, Washington DC 20002  |    |  americanchemistry.com  
March 14, 2025 
Mr. Faisal D’Souza, NCO 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office 
(NCO), National Science Foundation 
On behalf of the Office of Science and Technology Policy Council (OSTP) 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
Re:  Comments on the Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Dear Mr. D’Souza: 
This version of our comments supersedes the version submitted previously because the previous version  
inadvertently omitted the following statement: 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or  
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action  
Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
The American Chemistry Council’s (ACC)1 Regulatory & Scientific Affairs Division appreciates the opportunity 
to provide the following comments to the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development 
(NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO) of the National Science Foundation, which is working on the 
behalf of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP).  
ACC is a trade association that represents more than 190 companies engaged in the business of chemistry. Our 
members play a foundational role in U.S. economic production and performance. Our member operations apply 
1 The American Chemistry Council’s mission is to advocate for the people, policy, and products of 
chemistry that make the United States the global leader in innovation and manufacturing. To achieve 
this, we: Champion science-based policy solutions across all levels of government; Drive continuous 
performance improvement to protect employees and communities through Responsible Care®; Foster 
the development of sustainability practices throughout ACC member companies; and Communicate 
authentically with communities about challenges and solutions for a safer, healthier and more 
sustainable way of life. Our vision is a world made better by chemistry, where people live happier, 
healthier, and more prosperous lives, safely and sustainably—for generations to come. 


OSTP RFI AI Action Plan 
March 14, 2025 
Page 2 
700 Second Street NE, Washington DC 20002  |    |  americanchemistry.com  
the science of chemistry to make innovative products, technologies, and services.  The expertise and efforts of 
our members will be essential to securing and advancing American AI dominance.  
Our comments follow.  If you have questions or concerns, please contact me.  
Jessica Ryman, PhD, DABT 
Senior Director, Chemical Management  


OSTP RFI AI Action Plan 
March 15, 2025 
Page 3 
Chemical Industry-Speciﬁc Comments 
1. American chemistry is instrumental for AI dominance
The U.S. has historically been a net exporter of chemicals, contributing positively to the nation’s trade 
balance. The U.S. chemical industry posted a trade surplus of $30.1 billion in 2023. With the 
exception of Europe, the U.S. chemical industry held a trade surplus with every other major region of the 
world, including Asia.  
Chemistry makes the U.S. economy possible. Chemistry products support nearly every corner of the 
economy. In fact, a quarter of U.S. GDP is generated from industries that rely on resilient supply 
chains for chemistry , including high-tech goods, aerospace, automotive goods, healthcare, agriculture 
and food production, among others. More than 80% of basic & specialty chemicals are purchased 
directly by the industrial sector. Chemistry is consumed by the manufacturing sector, both directly and 
indirectly. 
1.1 Hardware and chips 
Quite simply, developing and manufacturing electronics would not be possible without chemistry. 
Making everything from semiconductors to printed circuit boards to display materials, and many other 
electronic components requires a multitude of chemicals. In fact, $1 for every $10 worth of materials 
used to produce electronic components is spent on chemistry, and a single semiconductor chip requires 
500 diƯerent chemistries.  
1.2 Data centers 
In addition to the products we use every day such as mobile phones, laptops, and electric vehicles, 
electronics and the chemistry that goes into them are becoming increasingly more important to building 
data centers and artiﬁcial intelligence (AI). For example, chemistry is important for the building of data 
centers and the systems that control them (i.e., ﬁre suppressant systems, HVAC systems, water cooling 
etc.). 
1.3 Energy consumption and eƯiciency2 
Our OƯicial Policy Position on Energy is that ACC supports a national energy strategy that develops and 
uses America's diverse sources, promotes energy eƯiciency, and encourages the development and 
adoption of new technologies.  2 Learn more at: https://www.americanchemistry.com/better-policy-regulation/energy 


OSTP RFI AI Action Plan 
March 15, 2025 
Page 4 
Chemistry is the science behind innovative solutions that empower diverse energy options, create jobs, 
and propel U.S. economic growth. Chemistry enables energy-saving and renewable applications 
including solar panels and wind turbines, electric and fuel-eƯicient vehicles, high-performance building 
materials, advanced batteries, energy-eƯicient lighting, and more.  
2.0 American chemistry for AI needs smart chemical regulation 
2.1 More hardware and chips made in America means more American chemistry 
More chemistry will be needed to supply the return of electronics manufacturing to the U.S. To meet this 
growing demand and keep chemical manufacturing in America, policymakers must support the 
production of the chemistries needed to develop new technologies and make new electronics. 
2.2 Smart and timely regulation for development and manufacture of vital chemistries is needed 
Congress understood that protecting human health and the environment and promoting economic and 
societal advancement are not mutually exclusive when it amended the Toxic Substances Control Act 
(TSCA) in 2016. In fact, sound chemical management policies are critical to American innovation and 
competitiveness. However, TSCA is not working as intended by Congress and the Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA) is not meeting its statutory mandates. 
As the demand for innovative chemistries grows, the backlog of new chemicals awaiting TSCA review 
beyond the 90-day period is impeding investments in the production of new and innovative chemicals 
here in the United States. Seventy percent of ACC member companies surveyed reported choosing to 
introduce new chemicals outside the U.S. due to uncertainties and challenges with the EPA’s New 
Chemicals Program34.  
3 Chris Jahn testimony on the Impact of TSCA and the Lautenberg Chemical Safety for the 21st Century 
Act before the House Energy and Commerce Environ... - American Chemistry Council  
4 Learn more at: https://www.americanchemistry.com/better-policy-regulation/chemical-
management/toxic-substances-control-act-tsca/tsca-new-chemicals-under-review-tracking 


OSTP RFI AI Action Plan 
March 15, 2025 
Page 5 
ACC Comments Speciﬁc to Requested Comments 
3.1  Model development would (ideally) involve subject-matter experts 
The involvement of subject-matter experts in the development of AI models for use in speciﬁc areas of 
expertise would (ideally) involve subject-matter experts.  
3.2 Open source development 
ACC notes the potential for greater security and bias concerns with open source development because 
the development environment is less controlled.  As such, it may be advisable to limit open source 
development to lower-risk applications. Furthermore, open source AIs would likely need additional 
review prior to deployment.  
3.3 Application and use: private sector and government 
ACC notes that AI has high potential for multiple applications and uses in both the private sector (to 
include the chemical industry) and government (to include chemical regulation) that could increase 
eƯiciency. Assuming that governments would generally be expected to have more stakeholders than 
individual businesses, the use of AI in government would generally be expected to be higher risk. (That 
said, the potential for individual companies that specialize in AI to amass a considerable amount of 
global power cannot be ruled out).   For government in particular, if models are developed, inclusion of 
subject-matter experts is highly recommended, as is starting out on smaller, lower-risk projects prior to 
expansion into higher-risk areas. 
3.4 Explainability and assurance of AI model outputs 
AI models should be of suƯicient explainability and AI model inputs and outputs should be suƯiciently 
transparent to facilitate external validation and reproducibility when used for government activities that 
allow for public comment opportunities.  Furthermore, such AI models should be transparent about what 
policies and assumptions are applied and how these aƯect the outcome.  (The TREAT framework of 
Trustworthy, Robust, Ethical, Accountable, and Transparent AI may be helpful in this contexts and other 
contexts in relation to AI).  We further underscore the necessity for human oversight for quality 
assurance, during both AI development and for model outputs, to identify and avoid issues such as drift, 
AI ‘hallucinations’, bias, and other undesirable outcomes.  
3.5 Cybersecurity 
Any use of AI by federal regulatory agencies that requires the submission of proprietary data or 
conﬁdential business information should ensure appropriate cybersecurity measures in accordance with 
the agencies’ Congressional authorities. We further note that cybersecurity also comes into play during 


OSTP RFI AI Action Plan 
March 15, 2025 
Page 6 
AI development to prevent ‘hallucinations’. Human oversight will be instrumental in ensuring 
cybersecurity. 
3.6 Data privacy and security throughout the lifecycle of AI system development and deployment (to 
include security against AI model attacks) 
Any use of AI by federal regulatory agencies that requires the submission of proprietary data or 
conﬁdential business information should be conducted in accordance with Congressional authority and 
ensure data privacy and security not only during AI system development and deployment, but also AI 
system updates and AI system decommissioning. A federal regulatory agency should also provide notice 
to the regulated community that its proprietary data or conﬁdential business information may be 
processed or analyzed using AI. 
3.7 Risks 
AI comes with many potential risks that should be assessed and managed.  These include, but may not 
be limited to: loss of safety (e.g., AI could cause danger or damage to people, property, or the 
environment); loss of security and resiliency (e.g., loss of integrity, conﬁdentiality, and loss of ability to 
function in the face of change); instability, unreliability, and invalidity,  (e.g., AI could be inaccurate  and 
not robust); AI could become unexplainable and uninterpretable; AI could become unaccountable and 
untransparent; AI could be unfair and biased; and AI could result in loss of privacy.  
3.8 Regulation and governance 
As far as we are aware, there is little regulation and governance of AI in the United States.  We note that, 
in general, whatever governance structure(s) is/are developed and applied, these should ensure that AI 
has human oversight by trained humans that ideally includes a risk governance structure (i.e., risk 
mapping, risk measurement, and risk management).  Risks should be appropriately assessed and 
mitigated such that AI (in general) will be safe (e.g., not endanger people, property, or the environment), 
secure and resilient (e.g. maintain integrity, conﬁdentiality, and availability in the face of change), stable 
and reliable, valid (e.g., accurate and robust), explainable and interpretable, accountable and 
transparent, fair and unbiased, and maintaining of privacy.  


OSTP RFI AI Action Plan 
March 15, 2025 
Page 7 
3.9 Technical and safety standards 
No comment. 
3.10 National security and defense 
No comment. 
3.11 Research and development (R&D) 
R&D can encompass two areas:  R&D for AI itself and use of AI in R&D to advance discovery and 
innovation  
3.11.1 R&D for AI itself 
R&D for AI should include enough users during testing to ensure that unanticipated biases and other risks 
are identiﬁed and mitigated early on. Additionally, R&D should include subject-matter experts for AIs that 
are to be developed and deployed in speciﬁc areas of subject matter expertise.  
All AI models should be validated with test data that diƯers from the training data.  Additionally, 
consequential models should undergo peer review, to include peer-review of the model output.  The 
output of the model could be compared (by humans) to reference output, including by appropriate 
statistical methods (such as linear regression, when statistically relevant). Additionally, for consequential 
models, the references and data utilized should be available for external validation. We further note that 
comparison of model output over time, as well as maintaining the initial data used to develop the model, 
should also help with identifying any model drift over time.   
3.11.2 Using AI to advance discovery and innovation 
We note that the AI models have accelerated R&D in the pharmaceutical industry and we note the high 
potential for AI to advance discovery and innovation in other industries.   
3.12  Education and workforce 
Unbiased or leave blank. 
3.13 Innovation and competition 
We note that AI will likely be helpful for innovation, but that it would be preferable for AI to be used as an 
assistive tool to aid users in innovating.  
3.14  Intellectual property 
We have noted previously that AI used by federal agencies should protect industry intellectual property 
(e.g. when regulatory agencies require the submission of proprietary data or conﬁdential business 
information).   


OSTP RFI AI Action Plan 
March 15, 2025 
Page 8 
3.15  Procurement 
No comment. 
3.16  International collaboration 
We anticipate that AI will be integrated over time into currently existing international collaborations (e.g. 
OECD and other forums).  We further note that convening international expert groups on various topics in 
international collaboration provides an opportunity for SME input in the development of AI that will be 
used internationally.   
3.17 Export controls 
No comment.  


