FINAL DRAFT 
Accelerate Science Now Response to Office of Science and 
Technology Policy Request for Information on Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
Date: March ##, 2025  
Submitted by: Accelerate Science Now  
Point of Contact: Joshua New, Director of Policy, SeedAI  
Email: 
I.Introduction
As AI continues to drive innovation across scientific research, national security, and industrial  
applications,  the United States must take decisive action to maintain its leadership in AI 
development and deployment. In 2021, Congress established the National AI Initiative to further 
coordinate and enhance Federal actions to ensure continued U.S. leadership in AI research and 
development, leading the world in the development and use of trustworthy AI systems in the 
public and private sectors.  
The Initiative aims to prepare the present and future U.S. workforce for the integration of AI 
systems across all sectors of the economy and society, and coordinates  ongoing AI research, 
development, and demonstration activities among the civilian agencies, Department of Defense, 
and the Intelligence Community to ensure that each informs the work of the others. A 
comprehensive national strategy should build on the work started by the National AI Initiative 
and prioritize investments in cutting-edge research, energy infrastructure and public-private 
collaboration to ensure the responsible and effective advancement of AI technologies.  
The following recommendations outline key initiatives to empower federal agencies,  enhance  
scientific research capabilities, and address the critical challenges associated with AI adoption, 
governance, and security. By implementing these strategies, the U.S. can  make groundbreaking 
scientific advancements, strengthen economic competitiveness, and reinforce national security 
while ensuring that AI-driven advancements remain aligned with ethical and societal goals. 
Accelerate Science Now is a non-partisan coalition of leaders in industry, academia,  civil  
society, and the research community, charged with igniting a new era of rapid scientific 
discovery and delivering the benefits to the American people. Accelerate Science Now members 
include: Amazon Web Services; Anthropic; Astera Institute; Black Tech Street; Carnegie Mellon 
University; Center for Data Innovation; Cohere; Computing Research Association; Emerald 
Cloud Lab; Energy Sciences Coalition; Federation of American Scientists; Foundation for 
1 


FINAL DRAFT 
American Innovation; FutureHouse; Ginkgo Bioworks; Institute of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineers; Institute for Progress; Institute for AI Policy and Strategy; Information Technology 
Industry Council; Lehigh University; Meta; National Applied AI Consortium; New Mexico 
Artificial Intelligence Consortium - Academia; NobleReach Foundation; OpenMined; 
Renaissance Philanthropy; Samsung; SeedAI; UbiQD; UC Berkeley; UC Irvine, University of 
Florida; University of Wisconsin-Madison; and the Wilson Center Science and Technology 
Innovation Program. Accelerate Science Now is led by SeedAI, a non-profit, nonpartisan organization working at the 
forefront of artificial intelligence policy and governance. 
These recommendations do not necessarily represent or reflect the official positions of all 
coalition members. This document should be understood as a collaborative effort to advance 
shared objectives, while acknowledging the diversity of viewpoints within our coalition. 
II.Recommendations
Emerging Ideas 
●Empowering OSTP to Lead on AI and Scientific Research Priorities
To advance the United States' position as a global leader in AI and scientific innovation,
the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) should be empowered to take a
more active role in shaping national research priorities.1
Key Considerations:
●OSTP should develop a Scientific Grand Challenge Agenda.
●OSTP should coordinate a pilot program for leveraging expert prediction markets
to inform AI R&D activities.
OSTP has a substantial amount of scientific and technological expertise at its disposal, 
but its ability to directly shape the federal government’s R&D priorities is limited. For 
example, the Director of OSTP was elevated to a cabinet-level position in 2022, but 
without commensurate cabinet-level authority. 
1 The National AI Initiative Act, passed as part of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2020 in the first Trump 
Administration, provided new but limited  authority to the Office of Science and Technology Policy with regards to 
AI policy. For example, it gave it the authority to name the Director of the National AI Initiative Office and 
designate and co-chair an interagency committee to coordinate federal programs in support of the office. These 
authorities expire 10 years after enactment. National AI Initiative Act. 15 U.S.C. § 9412-9413 (2021).  
2 


FINAL DRAFT 
Through agencies like the Department of Energy (DOE), the National Institutes of Health 
(NIH), and the National Science Foundation (NSF), the Federal Government already has 
effective mechanisms and well-established expertise for coordinating and leading 
research and development itself and in partnership with academia and the private sector. 
Thus it is critical that empowering OSTP to exhibit greater leadership in this space is 
additive, rather than coming at the expense of existing federal R&D leadership efforts, or 
is duplicative of their work.   
To accomplish this, OSTP should be granted greater authority to coordinate ambitious 
interagency R&D agendas and experiment with new methods for advancing national 
strategic objectives and scientific and technological competitiveness.  
More concretely, OSTP should be empowered to set ambitious federal R&D targets by 
developing a Scientific Grand Challenge Agenda and coordinating a pilot program for 
leveraging expert prediction markets to inform AI R&D activities.  ●Scientific Grand Challenge Agenda
OSTP should develop a high level Scientific Grand Challenge Agenda to serve as a
roadmap for public and private R&D efforts in science and technology.
Key Considerations:
●The Agenda should be a persistent mechanism to chart the course for national
scientific and technical leadership.
●The Agenda should identify major scientific and technological breakthroughs that
would generate enormous economic and social value.
●Federal research agencies and Congress should leverage the Agenda to make
more informed decisions about how to best support national R&D priorities.
●OSTP should explore how to leverage the Agenda to inform ambitious,
multi-agency funding efforts coupled with non-governmental collaboration.
Many federal agencies have pursued grand challenges as a mechanism for spurring 
progress towards high value scientific breakthroughs, and they are a critical tool for 
signaling to academia and the private sector about national research priorities. However, 
these efforts are typically siloed within individual agencies, or are one-off efforts, 
limiting their utility as a tool for shaping long-term, ambitious scientific R&D efforts. 
The Scientific Grand Challenge Agenda should be a persistent mechanism to chart the 
course for national scientific and technical leadership. It should be developed in 
consultation with the Presidential Council of Advisors on Science and Technology 
(PCAST), leadership of federal research agencies, and input from the public through 
public requests for comment. OSTP should maintain a regular and iterative process for 
3 


FINAL DRAFT 
updating the Agenda based on changes in the scientific and technical landscape and 
national priorities. 
The list of scientific grand challenges identified in the Agenda should be major scientific 
and technological breakthroughs that would generate enormous economic and social 
value. They should place a particular emphasis on the increasing capabilities of AI to 
augment and automate scientific research, as well as the new opportunity space for 
scientific exploration enabled by increased AI capabilities. 
Federal research agencies should utilize this Scientific Grand Challenge Agenda to 
inform and augment, but not supplant, their own R&D priorities. And Congress should 
leverage the Agenda to make more informed decisions about how to best support national 
scientific and technological priorities. 
OSTP should also explore how to leverage the Agenda to inform ambitious, multi-agency 
funding efforts that incentivize research teams from academia and the private sector to 
collaborate and make shared, iterative progress towards solving these challenges. This 
could help bypass the “lone-ranger” paradigm for scientific research and more effectively 
ensure that federal R&D efforts produce high-quality science and deliver for the 
American people.2  
The Apollo Program, the Human Genome Project, and the DARPA Grand Challenge are 
all excellent examples of ambitious grand challenges that successfully mobilized 
coordinated, multi-stakeholder, long-term efforts to drive groundbreaking scientific and 
technological progress.3,4,5 The federal government should make systematically 
identifying and pursuing groundbreaking ideas like these a consistent, 
whole-of-government priority rather than one-off projects. ●Pilot Program for Expert Prediction Markets in AI R&D
To enhance the effectiveness of AI research funding, OSTP, in coordination with DOE,
should establish a pilot program exploring the utility of expert prediction markets to
inform AI R&D funding decisions.
Key Considerations:
5 The DARP A Grand Challenge: Ten Years Later. DARPA. (2014, March 13). 
https://www.darpa.mil/news/2014/grand-challenge-ten-years-later 4 National Institute of Health. (2024, June 14). Human genome project fact sheet. Genome.gov. 
https://www.genome.gov/about-genomics/educational-resources/fact-sheets/human-genome-project  3Mann, A. (2020, June 25). The apollo program: How NASA sent astronauts to the Moon. Space.com. 
https://www.space.com/apollo-program-overview.html 2 Mitchell, Tom M. (2024) How Can AI Accelerate Science, and How Can Our Government Help? Carnegie Mellon 
University [online] https://tinyurl.com/2s3ctsf8 
4 


FINAL DRAFT 
●OSTP should experiment and iterate on what an expert prediction market looks
like.
●OSTP should have a strong bias for including non-government experts open to
supporting nontraditional or unexpected approaches.
●OSTP should develop a rigorous evaluative framework to compare the outcomes
of prediction market-funded projects with those selected through traditional
means.
●OSTP should identify criteria that determine whether particular scientific research
priorities are better suited for this expert prediction market approach compared to
traditional methods for making research funding decisions.
Research demonstrates the utility of prediction markets across disciplines, including 
economics, public health, and weather forecasting.6 The goals of this pilot should be to 1) 
identify new methods for evaluating and pursuing promising AI R&D objectives and 2) 
evaluate the potential for the use of expert prediction markets to shape federal R&D 
priorities more broadly. 
Existing mechanisms for evaluating and reviewing research funding proposals don’t 
always advance high-risk, high-reward research with the highest impact. Reviews can 
also be biased toward incremental, conservative approaches with more guaranteed rates 
of success rather than revolutionary science and engineering solutions.7 Compounding 
this problem, over more than a decade the rate of success across federal science agencies 
for new applications has been very low, especially at NIH and NSF.8 For example, in 
2023, NIH received 51,883 grant applications and awarded 11,502 grants–a success rate 
of 21%. The NIH has experienced roughly 20% success rates for twenty years and hasn’t 
had a success rate of 30% or over since 2003.910  
OSTP should work with DOE to launch a notice of funding opportunity around a specific 
technical challenge in AI R&D and DOE should utilize an expert prediction market to 
augment how it evaluates proposals and guide funding decisions. DOE’s evaluation 
criteria should broaden beyond scientific and technical merit and include potential 
impact, speed, market potential, and other factors.  
10 NSF received 40,453 proposals in 2024 and accepted 10,592 for a success rate of 26%. 
https://dellweb.bfa.nsf.gov/awdfr3/default.asp  9 NIH IMPAC, Success Rate File - Data produced by Statistical Analysis and Reporting 8 Düzgüneş N. 'Science by consensus' impedes scientific creativity and progress: A simple alternative to funding 
biomedical research. F1000Res. 2024;11:961. Published 2024 Feb 21. doi:10.12688/f1000research.124082.3 7 Axel Philipps, Research funding randomly allocated? A survey of scientists’ views on peer review and lottery, 
Science and Public Policy, V olume 49, Issue 3, June 2022, Pages 365–377, https://doi.org/10.1093/scipol/scab084 6 Kenneth J. Arrow et al, The Promise of Prediction Markets. Science 320, 877-878 (2008). DOI 
https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1157679.  
5 


FINAL DRAFT 
OSTP should be willing to experiment and iterate on what this expert prediction market 
looks like, but it should include a mix of internal and external subject matter experts 
voting on which proposals they think are most likely to deliver positive results. To 
meaningfully differ from the traditional approach of internal expert review, OSTP should 
have a strong bias for including non-government experts that might be willing to support 
nontraditional or unexpected approaches. OSTP should also experiment with an incentive 
system that rewards participating experts for correct predictions – those that successfully 
deliver positive research results – while also carefully protecting against potential 
conflicts of interest. 
OSTP should develop a rigorous evaluative framework to compare the outcomes of 
prediction market-funded projects with those selected through traditional means, 
carefully considering factors like cost, speed, quality, and innovation. And importantly, 
OSTP should identify criteria that determine whether particular scientific research 
priorities are better suited for this expert prediction market approach compared to 
traditional methods for making research funding decisions. Based on lessons learned 
from this pilot, if results are positive, OSTP should determine how to scale this approach 
across the federal research ecosystem and augment existing approaches to funding 
scientific research. 
Public-Private Collaboration and Government AI Adoption ●Government AI Adoption
The adoption of AI within government agencies presents an unparalleled opportunity to
enhance scientific research, improve decision-making, and optimize public services. The
Administration, through OSTP and in consultation with PCAST, should encourage the
use of open AI models across the executive branch, allowing for increased transparency
and collaboration among researchers and policymakers. By integrating AI-driven
insights, government agencies can improve policy formation, optimize resource
allocation, and foster public trust in AI-driven governance.
●Empower Scientific Workforce
To maintain the U.S. position as a global leader in AI and scientific research, the federal
government should expand AI literacy across the scientific workforce. The
Administration should establish training programs and funding initiatives aimed at small
and medium-sized businesses engaged in R&D. These efforts should leverage existing
programs and relationships through the NSF, DOE, Department of Agriculture (USDA),
and Small Business Administration (SBA), as well as any other executive agencies
identified by OSTP in consultation with PCAST. AI-enhanced tools can improve
productivity, facilitate interdisciplinary research, and unlock new scientific frontiers. A
concerted effort to integrate AI training into federal workforce development programs 6 


FINAL DRAFT 
and academic institutions will ensure that researchers have the skills necessary to 
leverage AI for discovery and technological advancement.  
●Establish NIST Foundation
The Administration should establish a dedicated foundation at the National Institute of
Standards and Technology (NIST) to significantly enhance AI standards development and
public-private collaboration. This foundation should support:○Development of AI safety and ethical standards
○Expansion of partnerships between research institutions, industry, and government
○Research grants and pilot projects focused on AI applications in scientific
discovery and industrial innovation
○Workforce development initiatives aligned with emerging AI technologies
●Empower and expand the National AI Research Resource (NAIRR)
The Administration should fully support the National AI Research Resource (NAIRR).
Conceived during the first Trump Administration, the NAIRR is critical in advancing
U.S. competitiveness in AI and the Administration should ensure it has the resources
necessary for continued success. Sustained investments in AI R&D have enabled the
United States to be a longstanding global leader in the field of AI, from the foundations
of the field to the present day. Realizing the benefits of AI for the United States will rely
on the ability of all U.S. researchers to access the necessary resources, especially
researchers with limited access or who have been historically excluded from AI and
related fields and industries. Engaging the full entire pool of U.S. talent will bring
important perspectives, research capacity, and inspiring use cases.The NAIRR would provide a widely-accessible, national cyberinfrastructure that
empowers a diverse set of users across a range of fields through access to computational,
data, and training resources. Leveraging the U.S.’s existing cyberinfrastructure resources,
the NAIRR would support cutting-edge explorations in AI R&D and improve the ease of
collaboration across disciplines and sectors that address pressing problems with AI. It
would create opportunities to train the future AI workforce, support and advance
trustworthy and responsible AI, and catalyze development of ideas that can be practically
deployed for societal and economic benefits.
The NAIRR would act as a catalyst for collaborative projects among universities, private
industry, and government agencies. By offering a centralized platform for  data and
computing power, the NAIRR can streamline interdisciplinary research, reduce
redundancy, and foster a culture of open innovation.
The enhanced capabilities provided by NAIRR can spur the development of new
AI-driven applications across critical sectors such as healthcare, cybersecurity, and 7 


FINAL DRAFT 
transportation, driving job creation and bolstering economic competitiveness on both a 
national and global scale.    
The National Science Foundation established a NAIRR Pilot Program that demonstrated 
how successful a fully funded NAIRR could be.11 The pilot program has partnered with 
14 governmental and over 25 non-governmental organizations and supported over 250 
research projects in more than 40 states. Unfortunately, despite bipartisan support, 
Congress has not authorized or appropriated funding for the NAIRR and the pilot 
program has less than a year left until it expires. 
The Trump Administration can and should continue to champion the NAIRR, regardless 
of Congressional action. It should build on the success of the pilot to scale up and 
expand, leveraging existing supporters in industry and the nonprofit sector to recruit 
additional non-governmental actors, such as nonprofits, foundations, and decentralized 
networks. Private sector actors are critical for the success of the NAIRR and should be 
fully leveraged to augment governmental action.  ●Support the Department of Energy’s Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence for Science,
Security and Technology (FASST) Initiative
The Administration should support full funding for the DOE FASST Initiative. This
transformative program leverages the Department’s extensive resources and established
infrastructure to address critical national priorities. By integrating artificial intelligence
with science, security, and technology, FASST is uniquely positioned to deliver
advancements that bolster national security, drive scientific discovery, and overcome
energy challenges—all while nurturing a skilled, forward-thinking workforce.The FASST Initiative will advance national security by enhancing research capabilities
through integrating AI with existing DOE capabilities and enabling rapid data analysis
and predictive modeling. It will provide a technological edge by harnessing AI to
strengthen defense and cybersecurity measures and foster partnerships with defense,
industry, and academic institutions to address emerging security threats.
A fully funded FASST will support robust training programs, fellowships, and
partnerships with leading research institutions, positioning FASST as a magnet for
top-tier talent in AI, data science, and engineering. FASST investments in education and
workforce training will ensure a pipeline of skilled professionals who can drive the
long-term success of national security and energy innovation initiatives.
The integration of AI technologies within DOE’s scientific research programs will
dramatically reduce the time required for data processing and simulation, expediting11 National Artificial Intelligence Research Resource Pilot. U.S. National Science Foundation. (n.d.). 
https://www.nsf.gov/focus-areas/artificial-intelligence/nairr 
8 


FINAL DRAFT 
breakthroughs in physics, chemistry, and materials science. AI’s application across 
various scientific domains will enable researchers to tackle complex challenges with 
enhanced precision and efficiency. FASST can leverage DOE’s vast computational and 
experimental resources to enhance the accuracy and scalability of scientific 
investigations, paving the way for next-generation discoveries. 
Energy and Computing Capacity 
Energy and compute infrastructure are critical components for all AI applications, including 
scientific research, industrial automation, and large-scale data processing. As AI models grow in 
complexity, their computational requirements increase exponentially, leading to higher energy 
consumption. As a result, the United States’ energy needs to power AI are growing rapidly, with 
data center energy demand expected by some experts to exceed 100 GW by 2030.12 Ensuring 
access to affordable and efficient compute and energy resources is especially important for 
research institutions, which often struggle to compete with private-sector actors that have access 
to greater funding and infrastructure. To support the increasing energy demands of AI workloads, 
the Administration should invest directly, work with states, and alongside private partners, in 
upgrading our energy infrastructure. Specifically, the Administration should: ●Modernize the Grid
Upgrade existing power networks to improve energy efficiency, reliability, and
scalability. This can involve replacing aging infrastructure with smart grid technologies,
improving energy storage capabilities, and deploying real-time monitoring systems.
●Integrate Grid-Enhancing Technologies (GETs)
Leverage advanced power flow control, dynamic line ratings, and other emerging
technologies to optimize energy distribution and reduce congestion in transmission lines.
●Establish Transmission Networks and Dedicated Corridors
Dedicated transmission networks should be established by the federal government to
support the energy-intensive operations of AI data centers and high-performance
computing clusters. It should invest in high-voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission
lines to efficiently transport electricity over long distances, minimizing energy loss;
create dedicated corridors that prioritize power distribution for AI computing hubs;
integrating renewable energy sources, advanced grid infrastructure, and redundant power
supply pathways to enhance reliability and ensure low-latency access to energy; and,
encourage the strategic placement of AI and HPC facilities near renewable energy plants
to maximize efficiency and reduce reliance on fossil fuels.
12 McGeady, C., Majkut, J., Harithas, B., & Smith, K. (2025, March 3). The electricity supply bottleneck on U.S. AI 
dominance. CSIS. https://www.csis.org/analysis/electricity-supply-bottleneck-us-ai-dominance  
9 


FINAL DRAFT 
The Administration should also prioritize R&D efforts focused on improving the energy 
efficiency of AI models and data center infrastructure.  
Scientific Applications of AI 
AI has made it possible to solve many of the world’s hardest challenges. Deploying AI across 
scientific disciplines will unlock American ingenuity and deliver countless benefits to the 
American people. To support existing efforts to leverage AI in scientific R&D, the 
Administration, in consultation with OSTP and PCAST, should:  
●Scientific AI R&D Catalog
OSTP should create a repository of high-leverage research opportunities and investments
that leverage AI to advance science, with input from non-governmental organizations.
Whereas the Scientific Grand Challenges Agenda should outline ambitious, moonshot
projects, this catalog should identify foundational and high-leverage investments that
non-governmental actors could make to advance scientific competitiveness in America.
This catalog can serve as a roadmap and facilitate coordinated action from industry,
nonprofits, and academia to build on thes success of existing projects and augment public
sector efforts to support American science.●National Lab Testbeds
Continue to support government investment in AI infrastructure and testbeds at DOE,
NIST, and NSF for national security and scientific applications in partnerships with
national laboratories to drive cutting-edge research in areas such as nuclear fusion,
quantum computing, and medicine.
●AI-Powered Materials Discovery and Autonomous Laboratories
Instruct DOE to take a leading role in advancing AI-powered materials discovery to drive
breakthroughs in critical material development. This would reinforce U.S. leadership in
manufacturing while reducing reliance on foreign supply chains. To accelerate this effort,
the U.S. government should establish a National Center for Autonomous Materials
Science to leverage AI-driven autonomous laboratories for rapid innovation in materials
and manufacturing.13 This center should develop standardized, modular lab ecosystems,
foster public-private partnerships, and provide funding incentives to overcome adoption
barriers. By combining AI-powered discovery with autonomous experimentation, the
U.S. can accelerate the identification and synthesis of next-generation materials essential
for high-capacity battery storage, next-generation semiconductors, and other strategic
technologies. This initiative would revolutionize materials R&D, reduce time-to-market
13 Joress, H. , Trautt, Z. , McDannald, A. , DeCost, B. , Kusne, A. and Tavazza, F. (2024), Driving U.S. Innovation 
in Materials and Manufacturing using AI and Autonomous Labs, Special Publication (NIST SP), National Institute 
of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD, [online], https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.1320, 
https://tsapps.nist.gov/publication/get_pdf.cfm?pub_id=958246 
10 


FINAL DRAFT 
for new innovations, and strengthen U.S. global competitiveness in advanced 
manufacturing.  
●AI Explainability Research
Invest, through NSF, NIST, and DOE, in advanced AI explainability research to improve
reliability and accelerate discoveries in critical fields such as protein folding and disease
research. Sound science relies on transparent methods that can be rigorously scrutinized,
and explainable AI directly supports that goal. Mechanistic interpretability—one example
of explainability research—helps demystify AI decision-making by revealing how
individual model components contribute to outcomes, thereby enhancing trustworthiness
and robustness in scientific applications. The goal of solving mechanistic interpretability
would be a perfect candidate for inclusion in OSTP’s Scientific Grand Challenge
Agenda.14
●Life Science Data Sets
Provide funding to support the development of a coordinated initiative for roadmapping,
certifying, collecting, and sharing high-quality datasets in the life sciences. This effort
should engage nonprofit research organizations and the broader scientific community to
identify critical data types for predictive modeling, establish rigorous quality control and
open science standards, develop automated data collection methodologies, certify data
providers, and subsidize the secure hosting of open datasets.15 By implementing this
strategy, the U.S. can incentivize the creation and sharing of large-scale, high-quality
datasets, accelerating scientific discovery and innovation in the life sciences.
III.Conclusion
The United States’ competitiveness in science will be a direct function of its competitiveness in 
AI. By demonstrating strong leadership in shaping national scientific and technological priorities 
and strategically providing the resources and infrastructure necessary for effective AI 
development and deployment, particularly in scientific domains, the Administration’s AI Action 
Plan can turbocharge American science to rapidly and responsibly deliver the benefits to the 
American people.  
15 DeBenedictis , E., Andrew, B., & Kelly, P. (25AD). Kickstarting Collaborative, AI-Ready Datasets in the Life 
Sciences. Federation of American Scientists. https://fas.org/publication/collaborative-datasets-life-sciences/ 14 Hammond, S. (2023, May 8). Opinion | we need a manhattan project for AI safety. Politico. 
https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2023/05/08/manhattan-project-for-ai-safety-00095779 
11 


FINAL DRAFT 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
12 


