Faisal D’Souza  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) 
National Coordination Office (NCO)  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
March 15, 2025  
Re: Accenture Response to Request for Information on the Development of an AI Action Plan  
Dear Mr. D’Souza,  
AI has the potential to transform  industries  and the workforce , strengthen economic and national 
security, and improve the ways government serves its citizens. As the Trump administration  has 
indicated, t he United States has the opportunity —and responsibility —to take steps now that will  
cement  its global lead ership  on AI innovation  and ensure it  realize s this full potential.   
For that reason, Accenture and Accenture Federal Services (AFS) are pleased to submit our 
recommendations in response to the U.S. government’s request for in formation  on an AI Action Plan. 
We are at the center of AI adoption, partnering with America’s technology lead ers to  bring tech, data 
and AI to  companies across all sectors of the U.S. economy —from  manufacturing and life sciences to 
financial services and consumer goods —and government at all levels. We therefore understand AI’s 
immense promise as well as the challenges that must be addressed.  
Critically , the U.S.  must rapidly transform the business of government —and broad deployment of AI is 
an essential  component .  We offer this and  several other  recommended areas of focus : 
1.Transforming the Business of Government.  By focusing on AI adoption in areas with the
greatest potential to transform government, streamlining procurement processes, and investing
in workforce training, the federal government can harness AI to improve citizen services, reduce
costs, and enhance n ational security.
2.Supporting  American -Made  AI for Broad -Based Economic Prosperity . America’s leadership in AI
depends on a strong, secure foundation  across the AI tech stack . That means investing in
domestic AI technology production, ensuring access to computing power, expanding support for
small tech innovators , and bringing AI jobs to all regions of the country . The federal government
should continue funding Tech Hubs across the country and reform permitting processes to meet
AI’s growing energy demands.
3.Ensuring the U.S. Has a World -Class , AI-Ready  Work force . America’s leadership in AI also
depends on having a strong,  agile and skilled workforce  now and into the future . The federal
government should help ensure American workers are equipped with the skills they need
because the success of AI will be deter mined  by the people who build and use it . That means


2 supporting efforts to continuously reskill and upskill  the workforce  as technology evolves and 
expand ing the available pool of AI -fluent workers, including through alternative  pathways  like 
apprenticeships . It also means exploring ways to encourage the broader introduction of AI 
education in K-12 classrooms and attracting the best talent from around the world to the U.S . 
4.Creating an Environment to Maximize AI Innovation and Adoption.  A fragmented patchwork of
state AI laws  threatens to slow AI innovation by increas ing complexity and  costs. To encourage
AI development and deployment, we  support federal action  that preempts these laws. A
national data privacy law is also critical —one that preempts the varying  state laws and enables
innovation while protect ing consumers.
5.Maintaining  U.S. Leadership in Global AI Standards . AI is a global technology, and America must
shape its future on the world stage  while securing access to global markets for American -made
AI products and services . The U.S. should engage with international bodies to establish clear,
interoperable AI standards that align with our values , promote fair competition  and enhance
accuracy and performance .
AI is a force multiplier for economic growth, security, and public service. The right policies today will 
ensure  the U.S. remains at the forefront of AI innovation.  
Andrew J.P. Levy  Denise Zheng  
Chief Corporate & Government Affairs Officer  Chief AI Officer , Data & AI Lead  
Accenture  Accenture Federal Services  


3 RECOMMENDATIONS  
1. TRANSFORM THE BUSINESS OF GOVERNMENT WITH AI
The rapidly evolving AI landscape presents tremendous opportunity for federal agencies to transform 
operations and enhance service delivery. The time is now for government to lean into accelerating the 
adoption of AI and automation . By embracing innovation while thoughtfully developing robust 
infrastructure, expertise, and governance frameworks, agencies can position themselves at the forefront 
of technological advancement, particularly in promising areas like Agentic AI.  
Strategically  Implement  AI Solutions  in Areas  with the Greatest Potential  for Transformation .  
Agencies should embrace a culture of experimentation and innovation, focusing on high -impact 
applications across the enterprise that address mission -critical challenges. Agencies can achieve 
breakthrough improvements in effectiveness and efficiency  with AI.  This approach positions government 
to deliver tangible benefits to citizens while simultaneously building the organizational capabilities 
needed to lead in the  AI-powered future.   
As this journey commences, agencies should move decisively to implement AI solutions in proven high -
impact areas where immediate value can be demonstrated, including:  
•Enhanced Fraud Prevention: Implement multi -layered AI detection systems that combine
anomaly detection, behavioral analysis, and predictive modeling to identify sophisticated fraud
patterns across programs. These systems should continuously learn from new schemes while
minimizing fa lse positives that impact legitimate beneficiaries.
•Intelligent Citizen Service Platforms: Deploy conversational AI systems across contact centers
and help desks that can handle complex inquiries, authenticate users securely, and seamlessly
escalate to human agents when necessary. These systems should integrate with existing case
management syst ems.
•Document Intelligence & Knowledge Management: Deploy solutions that not only extract
information from unstructured documents but also understand relationships between entities,
identify policy implications, and automatically route documents based on content analysis.
These tools should make institutio nal knowledge discoverable and actionable across
organizational silos.
•Productivity Enhancement Tools: Integrate AI writing assistants, data analysis tools, and process
automation capabilities that augment workforce capabilities while preserving human judgment
on critical decisions. These tools should be designed with specific needs of the federal workforce
in mind.
Advancing Agentic AI in Government. Agentic AI —systems that can autonomously plan and execute 
complex tasks across multiple systems —represents a significant opportunity. Areas like benefits 
processing, resource allocation, or regulatory reviews are ideal starting points. These agents should 
combine large language models with traditional rule -based systems to ensure compliance with federal 
regulations. These agentic systems should have robust monitoring, explainability features, and human 
intervention capabi lities , including  real-time operation dashboards, audit trails of agent decisions, and 
configurable approval workflows for sensitive actions.  


4 Reform Federal Procurement and Security Practices  to Streamline Acquisitio n. To lead in AI, the U.S. 
government must reform IT procurement and security to enable agencies to access cutting edge 
technologies more quickly and cheaply and incentivize commercial AI leaders to offer their services to 
the government.  To enable faster and more agile AI acquisition by federal agencies under the AI Action 
Plan, the U.S. government should:  
•Transform Federal Security and Authorization Practices : The administration should r einvent the
Authority to Operate ( ATO ) process and FedRAMP based on commercial best practices to reduce
costs and accelerate the time to get new technologies into government , including :
oIncreas ing the number of assessors under FedRAMP and invest ing in technologies to
automate security assessment intake and review, as well as documentation and
reporting ;
oClarify ing what data and systems truly require the highest levels of authorization and
which can be safely assigned to low or moderate tiers to reduce costly and time -
consuming approvals for moderate risk systems ;
oSimplify ing the process for evaluating changes to existing services with ATO
authorization and provide exemptions from re -review for minor updates ;
oContinu ing to expand multi -agency and program ATO processes to facilitate interagency
approvals and reduce redundancy across agencies ; and
oContinu ing to explore light -touch approaches like self -attestation by vendors to
accelerate AI adoption and enable smaller players to compete in the federal market.
•Develop AI Marketplaces: Partner with hyperscalers to develop AI marketplaces on existing
platforms that already have ATO authorization to enable rapid adoption of existing tools and
applications across the wider government and create an avenue for smaller vendors with
cutting -edge technologies to access the federal market.
•Mandate Reciprocity Between Security Regimes:  Different security regimes used across federal
agencies should be aligned and reciprocity mandated  (e.g. FedRAMP High vs. IL4) to streamline
the approval process, eliminate the need for repetitive evaluations, and allow agencies to
leverage existing security assessments.
•Adopt Procurement and Innovation Best Practices from  the Private Sector . Adopt commercial
best practices in federal contracting, enabling consumption -based pricing, autoscaling, and rapid
scaling of AI applications.
•Enable Experimentation:  Establish centralized departmental AI sandboxes as innovation hubs,
controlled environments in which they can experiment with a variety of pre -approved AI models
and applications.
Build Institutional Knowledge and Competence. Ensuring that best practices are shared between  and 
within agencies will be critical to avoiding cost overruns, technical implementation difficulties and post -
deployment issues. To reduce risk, agencies should, to the greatest extent possible, create formal 
information sharing networks and build on the  knowledge and experiences of other agencies.  
•Establish Formal Information Sharing Mechanisms : Incentivize federal agencies to share
knowledge, resources, and best practices related to AI safety through working -level interagency


5 groups.  The purpose of these forums would be to capture and disseminate lessons from early AI 
implementations, including technical, governance, procurement, and management insights.  
•Create Cross -Agency Communities of Practice : Communities of practice should focus on specific
AI application areas to prevent duplicative efforts and continuously improve implementation
where different agencies, or different offices within the same agency, are leveraging AI for the
same purpose.
•Develop Standardized Evaluation Frameworks for AI Solutions : Evaluation frameworks should
assess both performance and alignment with federal requirements.
•Maintain Internal AI Inventories  that are More Robust and Internally Discoverable : Executive
Order 13960, which has been repealed by President Trump, required agencies to share with the
public non -classified and non -sensitive AI use case inventories. Transparency is critical to
promote trust by the public in federal agencies’ use of AI, but to publicize the inventories, the
details of the use cases were scant. Sharing more information about AI inventories internally,
simplifying the process of creating and maintaining them, and allowing them to contain more
useful and relevant information for internal developers will help agencies develop best
practices, learn from AI implementations elsewhere in the agency, and accelerate adoption.
Prepare the Federal Workforce to Succeed with AI. AI transformation is not just a technological change, 
it is also a cultural and organizational shift. While not every federal worker will need deep technical 
skills, training that enables effective human -machine teaming and helps workers understand how AI can 
be applied to their missions and maximize its value will be essential. To prepare the federal workforce to 
succeed with AI and enable AI innovation in government, the AI Action Plan should:  
•Establish an AI Literacy Curriculum : The curriculum should be broad enough to be relevant to all
federal workers, covering everything from AI basics to training programs for workers using
specific AI technologies and applications in their jobs. For example, courses on generative AI
(gen AI) fundamentals and prompt engineering could be made available to all federal workers;
managers could receive training on driving adoption and scaling gen AI and leading teams in the
age of gen AI; and senior leaders should  have access to training on business impacts, agency -
specific use cases, adoption and scaling and leading in the age of gen AI.
•Create Programs and Incentives for Upskilling : Create programs and incentives for technical
workers to gain relevant certifications or nanodegrees and participate in continuing education
programs to expand their AI skills.
•Expand Exchange Programs and Temporary Placements : Federal agencies are facing a skills gap
for technical expertise. What limited technical expertise exists needs to be shared across
agencies and efforts should be made to expand programs like temporary placements ( e.g., IPAs),
which can operate across agencies and components and bring technical expertise to fill gaps.
•Prioritize Hiring the Right Workers and Streamline Hiring Authorities : The federal hiring
process takes too long, and federal agencies are already at a hiring disadvantage compared with
the private sector due to federal salary constraints. The administration should direct agencies to
prioritize hiring AI and data science skil ls and workers with experience using AI. Greater
emphasis should be placed on skills -based hiring , as well.


6 Invest in Data Readiness and Prioritize  AI-Enabling Data Architectures . Data readiness is essential to 
accelerating AI adoption in federal agencies, but federal data architectures in many cases remain siloed 
and antiquated. By having well -organized, clean, and accessible data, agencies can more effectively train 
and deploy AI models, reducing the time and resources needed for data preprocessing and integration, 
thereby lowering costs. Enhanced data readiness also enables more efficient workflows and decisio n-
making processes, driving greater operational efficiency.  
•Invest in Data and AI Platforms  to Integrate Diverse Data S ources : Agencies should have data
and AI platforms to streamline data discovery and access management.  These platforms should
include  metadata  repositories that integrate  data catalogs across multiple data systems and
provide natural language search and context -aware recommendations for data scientists and
engineers. These metadata  repositories lay the foundation for the use of agentic AI solutions.
Define a Government -Wide  AI Policy, Including Voluntary Safety Standards . Agencies benefit from a 
unified framework that promotes transparency, accountability, and safety , thereby fostering public trust 
in AI systems. A clearly  defined voluntary standard of care can help unlock innovation by enabling 
responsible risk taking. This approach not only safeguards national security and public welfare but also 
positions the government as a leader in setting high standards for AI practic es.  
•Establish a Voluntary Minimum AI Safety Standard for Federal Agencies : Direct NIST  to
establish a voluntary minimum AI safety standard for federal agencies, based on the NIST AI Risk
Management Framework ( AI RMF). This standard should establish a common baseline standard
of care and set of practices that enhance quality control, performance and reliability and that
can be tailored to individual agency needs.
•Continue to Develop Guidance on the Application of the AI RMF to Specific AI Technologies and
Applications . The AI RMF has been widely praised as a generally applicable voluntary framework
to guide development and deployment of AI technologies. However, different applications of AI
require more nuanced approaches . NIST should continue to partner with the private sector and
academia to develop  tailored implementation guidance for specific use cases .
•Establish AI Flex Teams:  Agencies should establish AI flex teams that can support business units
and mission centers and help them implement new AI solutions responsibly.
2.SUPPORT AMERICAN -MADE AI FOR BROAD -BASED ECONOMIC PROSPERITY
Domestic Production of Tech, Products and Servic es. To safeguard American national and economic 
security and continued technological leadership, the U.S. should prioritize domestic production across 
all aspects of the AI tech stack , from data centers to semiconductor chips to AI -enabled products and 
services.  
•Continue Funding Tech Hubs : The Tech Hubs Program aims to strengthen U.S. economic and
national security with investments in regions across the country. Th e program brings together
diverse public, private, and academic partners into collaborative consortia focused on driving
regional growth. With their existing innovation assets as a foundation, these Tech Hubs will
create regional economies around AI; build the workforce of the future ; enable businesses to


7 start and scale,  particularly in underemployed and deindustrialized  communities;i and develop 
and deploy critical and emerging technologies.  
•Work with Congress to Pass Permitting Reform and Enhance Leverage of All Energy Sources:  AI
innovation requires an increasing amount of energy to power data centers, estimated to
consume up to seven percent  of U .S. electricity by 2028. Achieving the ambition of AI leadership
requires reducing the time and effort required currently to bring online new energy sources and
capacity .  Between  equipment backlogs, permitting delays and construction , it currently takes a
decade or longer to bring a new nuclear faci lity online. AI can itself be a part of the solution —to
accelerate  permitting review processes, coordinate interagency reviews, and streamline state,
local and federal requirements. AI also can speed up feasibility studies, leveraging gen AI to
automate parts of the study development and improving document management capabilities. In
addition, the administration should work with Congress to accelerate interconnection timelines
by simplifying data center grid interconnection processes an d pass permitting, li censing and
interconnection policy reform to enable new generation and transmission capacity in an
expedited manner. The administration should also provide certainty and safe harbor for tax
credits under Section 48E and 45Y.
•Codify and Expand the National AI Research Resource for “Little Tech” and Refocus
Government -Funded Basic Research:  AI holds tremendous potential for enhancing the work of
startups, but developing, training, and operating leading edge AI models can be cost -prohibitive,
particularly for small and medium -sized enterprises (SMEs). The National AI Research Resource
(NAIRR) provides these critical resources for AI researchers that sow the seeds for the next
round of U.S. -led development in AI applications. Simul taneously, the administration should
prioritize funding for government -funded research institutions such as the National Science
Foundation (NSF) and DARPA to drive innovation that can later be commercialized. Federal
funding of early stage, pioneering sci entific AI research is essential and relied upon by industry.
The commercial applications of early -stage research are not always readily apparent – and
therefore not an attractive investment to industry – but it forms the building blocks of our
world -leadi ng innovation economy.
3. ENSURE THAT THE U.S. HAS A WORLD CLASS, AI -READY WORKFORCE
As AI becomes more ubiquitous, jobs across all industries increasingly require a level of AI fluency. 
Without action, the current skill demand -supply gap will grow, stifling progress.  Therefore, along with 
maintaining the conditions fundamental to innovat ion, such as access to capital and data and a robust 
research and development ecosystem, the U.S must focus on maintaining the world’s best pipeline of 
talent that is AI -ready, digitally fluent and agile. In addition , the U.S. government  (at the federal, s tate 
and local level) must work together with industry to provide job pathways for the untapped talent 
across America, including those without traditional four -year degrees, and support education and 
skilling programs for American students and workers so t hat they can thrive in the AI economy of the 
future.  To that end, the U.S. government should:  
Support Industry -Led Reskilling and Upskilling. Businesses are at the forefront of reinventing work as 
they adopt AI across their enterprises. In the process, they are redefining the skills and competencies 


8 that will be required for the future AI -powered workforce. To enable their success and the success of 
American workers, the administration should:  
•Support  Skilling  Through Tax Incentives : Given the pace of technological change, companies
need to invest in a constant learning loop  as technology evolves.  We recommend incentivizing
employers to train their employees on much -needed AI skills, including through initiatives like
the Upskilling and Retraining Assistance Actii that would expand the tax exclusion for employers
to cover educational training programs.
•Develop an AI Workforce Impact and Opportunity Tool : Create an advanced, predictive
analytics tool designed to support American employers —including small and medium -sized
enterprises (SMEs) —in anticipating, evaluating, and proactively managing AI’s impact on their
workforce. Key features would include  scenario modeling capabilities that illustrate job redesign
possibilities, skilling pathways, and associated return -on-investment (ROI) insights. The
administration could consider, for example, developing a ne xt generation of the Department of
Labor’s existing Occupational Information Network (O*NET) database, integrating analytics and
AI into O*NET’s rich occupational data. Simplifying  and clarifying workforce planning will
empower businesses to make strategic decisions about resource allocation, talent pipeline
development, and targeted training investments, ensuring American workers are well -equipped
to excel in an AI -driven economy.
•Support Expansion of Next Generation Apprenticeships: Traditional apprenticeships ha ve
focused on the trades, but apprenticeships have tremendous potential to prepare people for in -
demand knowledge roles and use of emerging tech like AI, including in strategic areas like
semiconductor manufacturing.  Apprenticeships also allow access to broader pools of talent —
e.g., youth, those without four -year college degrees, those from underserved or forgotten
communities —and have the advantage of getting people and sk ills into the workforce quickly
through an earn -as-you-learn approach.  The federal government can encourage greater use of
apprenticeships, including those outside of the Registered Apprentice Program, by streamlining
the burdensome process of accessing training funds available to the states, for example,
through the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act .
Focus on the Future of AI Education. The U.S. currently lags China and India in the number of STEM 
graduates and the percentage of STEM graduates that go into STEM -related fields.iii Addressing this gap 
will require a focus not just on higher education, but also on increasing the introduction of AI as part of 
K-12 education. T he Bipartisan House Task Force on AI cited  the need to invest in K -12 STEM and AI
education, along with more resources for educators.iv
At least eleven c ountries have implemented AI curricula for K -12, including China, India and the UAE, 
with several others in development.v In the U.S., Florida provides a good state -led example that others 
could replicate. It implemented a K -12 AI education program based on a curriculum designed by the 
University of Florida. Starting with kindergarten, the program establishes learning standards for AI 
courses in Florida's classrooms.vi 
•Encourage and Coordinate Industry and Academia -Led Educational Tools for Students and
Teachers : The administration should convene a national summit on the future of work, inviting


9 industry leaders and higher education institutions to collaborate and commit to providing free 
AI educational tools, curricula, and resources to classrooms. While some initiatives currently 
exist, the administration can play an essential coordinating role,  ensuring these resources reach 
communities nationwide, especially in exurban and rural areas. These regions often have limited 
connectivity with AI -driven companies and universities yet stand to significantly benefit from 
targeted efforts addressing the i mpacts of economic transformation and deindustrialization.  
•Incentivize K -12 AI Curriculum Development Leveraging Local, State and Federal Resources :
Encourage states to follow Florida’s model and work with their public university systems to
develop K -12 AI education programs, leveraging the guidelines established by the NSF and the
Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence.vii While a focus on STEM is necessary,
it is not sufficient; AI education should also focus on critical thinking and problem -solving skills,
enabling a deep understanding of techn ology and fostering creativity and agility to support
future innovation.
Launch an AI Literacy Campaign : Implement national AI preparedness and education initiatives, 
including deepfake awareness, to inform the public about the benefits and risks of AI. As an example, 
Accenture launched the First AI -ID Kit, a deepfake awareness training, which is mandatory for our 
800,000 people and available to the public as a resource.viii  
4. CREATE AN ENVIRONMENT TO MAXIMIZE AI INNOVATION AND ADOPTION
Adoption of AI across the private sector will increase U.S. companies’ productivity, efficiency and growth 
and, with it, U.S. competitiveness. Yet , adoption currently is lagging.ix 
The private sector has a vital role to play in establishing trust and confidence in AIx, but the government 
can foster greater AI adoption and innovation  by creating a  clear and consistent policy environment that 
is pro-innovation , incorporates industry expertise , includes  guardrails for the highest risk uses  and 
retains flexibility as AI evolve s over time . While some areas may require new laws , in many cases,  
existing laws and industry regulations can be applied or adjusted .xi Outside of these areas, the 
administration  should encourage where possible voluntary compliance with  frameworks like the AI RMF . 
At the same time,  however,  we are seeing a proliferation of proposed or enacted state laws —over 780 
state laws proposed this year so far —that threaten to slow down and  increase the complexity and cost 
of AI innovation and adoption across the country .xii Federal action is needed  to preempt such laws .  
Likewise , the lack of a federal data privacy law has left us with a patchwork of state laws, leading to 
burdensome compliance requirements and a lack of clarity for American companies on the collection 
and use of consumer data. Currently 19 states have their own priv acy laws, with 12 more already 
introducing privacy legislation this year. Data is the fundamental building block for AI development , so 
this patchwork  also is creating unnecessary compliance burdens , particularly  harmful for innovative 
startups.  
To maximize the adoption of AI in the private sector , the U.S. government should:  


10 •Work with Congress to Address  State  AI Laws : The administration should consider a  federal  AI
law that preempts the growing number of state AI laws. Legislation could include clear
standards of care  based on  voluntary frameworks like the AI RMF  and address high -risk use
cases, where  appropriate . There are  options and considerations for the precise scope and
approach to preemption , which the Bipartisan House Taskforce on AI outlined  well.xiii
•Use Policy Prototyping To Remove Barriers  for Industry Modernization and Incentivize
Adoption of AI Gov ernance  Frameworks, Training Data Auditability  and Red Teaming : The
administration should incentivize adoption of AI governance  frameworks and digital
modernization by utilizing  policy prototyping tools like regulatory sandboxes, develop ing
industry -specific model governance frameworks and using contract ing provisions and other
regulatory feedback mechanisms to provide the private sector with the guidance needed to
modernize their businesses.
•Work with  Congress to Pass a Federal Data Privacy Law that Preempts State Laws : A federal
privacy law that preempts all state laws is critical to maintaining U.S. leadership in AI. Congress
should work with industry to understand the impacts and tradeoffs of the varying state laws and
put a federal privacy law together based on the be st components of each .
•Encourag e the Development  of Privacy Preserving Compute Ecosystems : When it comes to
training data sets with sensitive data, it can be difficult to obtain the required permissions from
users at the individual level. To continue data training un inhibited, the administration should
encourage the use of data via privacy preserving compute, which allow s companies and other
organizations to train on a large data set without ever observing the actual data.
5.MAINTAIN U.S. LEADERSHIP IN GLOBAL AI STANDARDS
America’s  ability to lead on AI globally will be determined, in part, on its ability to promote  consistent , 
interoperable  standards around the world. To reinforce the competitive position of U .S. companies in 
international market s, the administration should : 
•Use U.S. Convening  Power  and “ Tech Diplomacy”  to Advance  International AI  Standards.  U.S.
export markets should have common standards, rules and regulations that allow for U.S.
companies to compete fairly in those markets. The administration should leverage international
standards -setting organizations like ISO and fora like the OECD and the G7  to support the
development of international AI standards on AI security, quality control, performance and
reliability that are based on, and interoperable with, U.S.  frameworks and standards.
CONCLUSION  
Accenture and AFS are committed to supporting the U.S. government's efforts to develop a 
comprehensive AI Action Plan.   These recommendations underscore the critical importance of U.S. 
leadership in AI innovation, development, and adoption. Drawn from our extensive experience in both 
private and public sectors, these proposals emphasize securing the U.S. AI industrial base, developing 
workforce expertise, fostering an environment conducive to broad AI adoption, transforming 
government operations with AI, an d maintaining  the U.S.’ global leadership in AI.  
By implementing the right policies and making strategic investments, the United States has a unique 
opportunity to lead the world in AI. This leadership is vital to driving economic growth, enhancing 


11 national security, and improving public services. Collaboration among government leaders, businesses, 
and academic institutions will be essential to ensuring AI becomes a powerful catalyst for progress and 
global competitiveness. Together, these efforts wi ll help build an AI -driven future that benefits all 
citizens and solidifies America's position at the forefront of this transformative technology.  
Disclaimer : This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
i Where the AI jobs are , Axios  (Mar. 8, 2025), https://www.axios.com/2025/03/08/ai -job-hotspots.  
ii Senator Todd Young and Maggie Hassan, available at  https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th -congress/senate -
bill/3296/text?s=1&r=3&q=%7B%22search%22%3A%22Upskilling+and+Retraining+Assistance+Act%22%7D.  
iii National Science Foundation, https://ncses.nsf.gov/pubs/nsb20243/talent -u-s-and-global -stem -education -and-labor -
force#:~:text=International%20S%26E%20Higher%20Education%20and%20Student%20Mobility, -
The%20world's%20three&text=India%20awarded%202.5%20million %20first,awards%20from%202011%20to%202020.  
iv Bipartisan House Task Force on Artificial Intelligence , www.speaker.gov/wp -content/uploads/2024/12/AI -Task -Force -Report -
FINAL.pdf (106).  
v K-12 AI curricula: a mapping of government -endorsed AI curricula , UNESCO Digital Library, 
https://unesdoc.unesco.org/ark:/48223/pf0000380602.  


12 vi AI Foundations, Preparing Florida’s youth for ever evolving 21st Century , https://news.ufl.edu/2023/08/uf -designed -ai-
education/.  
vii Id. 
viii First AI -ID Kit, https://firstai -idkit.com/learn#meetyourdigitalmaker.  
ix According to a recent Accenture survey of global corporate executives, only 36 percent say they have scaled gen AI solutions.  
See Making Reinvention Real with  Gen AI , Accenture (Mar. 6, 2025), https://www.accenture.com/cn -
en/insights/consulting/making -reinvention -real-with -gen-ai.  
x Thrive with responsible AI: How embedding trust can unlock value , Accenture & AWS, 
https://www.accenture.com/content/dam/accenture/final/accenture -com/document -3/Accenture -Responsible -AI-From -Risk-
Mitigation -to-Value -Creation.pdf#zoom=40.  
xi For example, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has reviewed and approved 950 AI/ML -enabled medical devices under its 
existing authorities.   See U.S. Food & Drug Administration, https://www.fda.gov/medical -devices/software -medical -device -
samd/artificial -intelligence -and-machine -learning -aiml -enabled -medical -devices . 
xii According to a joint study by Accenture and Stanford University, regulations were the most cited AI -related risk by companies 
surveyed globally (51%)  and nearly all (90%) expect to be subject to AI -adjacent legal obligations such as cybersecurity, AI -
related laws, data and consumer protection over the next five years. From compliance to confidence: Embracing a new mindset 
to advance responsible AI maturity , https://www.accenture.com/content/dam/accenture/final/accenture -com/document -
3/Accenture -Responsible -AI-From -Compliance -To-Confidence -Report.pdf#zoom=40.  
xiii Bipartisan House Task Force on Artificial Intelligence , www.speaker.gov/wp -content/uploads/2024/12/AI -Task -Force -Report -
FINAL.pdf ( 23). 


