 
 
March 14, 2025  
 
Faisal D'Souza  
Technical Coordinator  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development  
National Coordination Office  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
 
RE: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action 
Plan  Dear Mr. D’Souza:  
 Health care has leveraged AI for decades and  the emergence of more advanced AI technology 
offers great potential  balanced with reas onable  concerns . President Trump returns to the White 
House at a critical time for enacting AI policies that promote privacy, safety and improved outcomes in health care, with patient outcomes and  experience as our north star. The Alliance of 
Community Health Plans (ACHP) appreciates the opportunity to share our vision for the future of AI in health care.  
 ACHP is the only national organization promoting the unique payer -provider aligned model in 
health care, delivering affordable, coordinated and comprehensive coverage options. Our member companies collaborate with their provider partners to deliver higher -quality coverage and care to 
tens of millions of Americans in nearly 40 states and D.C. Anchored in their communities, ACHP member companies understand the transformative impact of an integrated system of care, in 
which providers, payers and community leaders work together to enhance access to services and 
improve health outcomes.  
 An effective AI Action Plan must account for sector -specific needs and impact s while 
allowing  individual AI -enabled tools to be regulated  appropriately based on their industry 
and application.  It is critical to recognize that AI and the sectors that utilize it are both too 
complex for “one -size-fits-all" policy.  As part of the Consumer Technology Associ ation ’s Health AI 
Collaborative, ACHP emphasized th e need  for specialized policy  in its December 2024 brief, Policy 
Considerations for a New Congress and Administration .  
 When implemented at scale across the health care industry, advanced AI technology has  the 
potential to enhance accessibility and improve quality of care. AI -supported technology eases 
administrative burden on both payers and providers, facilitates  critical health plan operations and 
improves health care delivery and outcomes for patients. ACHP encourages th e Administration 

 
 
to develop an action p lan that prioritizes  patient outcomes  and experience while 
promoting privacy, safety a nd techn ology acce ssibility .  
 
An AI a ction p lan must address the significant concerns surrounding the privacy of personal 
health information, patient safety, data quality  and risk  of AI use case within the health care 
system . Ensuring data quality , volume  and hygiene is a critical element  given the potential for AI 
models to ingest incomplete, inaccurate or  poor -quality health care data. This raises significant 
concerns regarding AI model training, performance and implementation, creating  disparities  
between those who  can develop, access and implement AI and those who cannot . AI a ction p lan 
policies must support both greater health care data access  and robust data protection 
measures, especially where data  falls out of the purview of HIPAA protections.   
 ACHP outlines three gu iding principles that must be reflected in an AI a ction p lan for the 
appropriate and effective oversight of AI in health care: protecting patients, the use of a common language and the necessity for public -private coordination.  
 Protecting Patients   
 
The value of AI models and quality of the outputs rel y on the original data, which  in health care 
that typically means personal health information. It is imperative that this data is used 
responsibly, and patient privacy is maintained. High -quality data is also vital to ensuring AI does 
not impair the personalization of care or the recognition of community -specific trends. ACHP 
requests that the action p lan include s clear guidelines for how existing security and privacy 
requirements apply to data being used by AI, and to ensure that data sets are clean and representative to facilitate effectively tailored care.   
A Common Language   
 
There is no consensus on definitions in AI within health care. Additionally, the distinction between predictive AI and generative AI models is not widely understood between consumers, 
policymakers and the health care industry. ACHP requests the a ction p lan determine a 
common language for AI in health care that would eliminate any ambiguity, ensuring that 
all stakeholders have a shared understanding as policy evolves .  
 
Public -Private Coordination   
 
Health care regulations governing payer lines of business, patient and consumer protections, hospitals and providers are siloed between states and federal agencies. The result is a fragmented policy landscape that is challenging to navigate.  Policymakers should avoid  reinventing  the wheel 
and instead  refine existing policies and frameworks  based on industry input, ensuring a seamless 

expansion of  the regulatory landscape.  ACHP requests the action p lan to maintain a 
coordinated effort with stakeholders to establish seamless national policies  and guardrails 
that enhance  the use of AI in health care.  
From improving decision- making, streamlining processes  and enhancing care coordination and 
patient access, ACHP  member  companies recognize the potential of advanced AI in health care. AI 
has supported the health care industry for decades, and t he next wave of innovation can further 
ease the burden of  routine tasks  for health plans and providers, allowing them to focus on what 
they do best – delivering high -quality, coordinated care. ACHP strongly supports the positions 
outlined in the CTA Health AI Collaborative: Policy Considerations for a New Congress and 
Administration  and encourages the Administration to develop AI policies that ensure AI -supp orted 
health care offers more seamless, improved access and higher value coverage and care to all 
patient s. 
ACH P looks forward to continued collaboration in the development of an AI a ction p lan with this  
Administration . Please contact Michael Bagel, Associate Vice President of Public Policy at 
 with any questions or to discuss our recommendations 
further. 
Sincerely, 
Dan Jones 
Vice President of F ederal A ffairs 
ACHP 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  


