 
page 1 
  
March 15, 2025  
Faisal D'Souza  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development  
National Coordination Office  
National Science Foundation  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
 
Submitted electronically   
 
Re: Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Dear M r. D’Souza , 
The American Clinical Laboratory Association (ACLA) appreciates the 
opportunity to respond to the request for information on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan , as directed by President Trump’s January 23, 
2025 Executive Order 14179 (Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial 
Intelligence) . 
 
ACLA is the national trade association representing leading laboratories that 
deliver essential diagnostic health information to patients and providers by advocating 
for policies that expand access to the highest quality clinical laboratory services, 
impro ve patient outcomes, and advance the next generation of personalized care.  We 
appreciate  the Administration’s efforts to curb unnecessarily burdensome requirements 
that may  hamper  innovation . These efforts are critical to ACLA’s patient -centered 
mission as well as our  shared  priorities around promoting a healthier America . As 
clinical laborat ories  strive to empower  patients  with actio nable information about their 
health , AI tools can  bolster the ability to detect the onset of diseases and changes in 
chronic conditions.  One such example is  transforming women’s healthcare by 
leveraging digital cytology utilizing AI to detect cervical cancer – saving lives, 
improving care delivery , and ameliorating persistent shortages in the field . 
 
In clinical laboratories, where precision, efficiency, and quality are paramount, 
AI innovations , including machine learning  models, are emerging as promising tools to 
help address workforce shortages and manage the increasing demand for healthcare 
services.  AI is one of many ways that ACLA member laboratories are utilizing 
innovative technology to streamline business processes, prioritize and increase the 
efficiency of workflows, and combine and summarize  data from multiple sources  to 
reduce employee burnout, all to ensure the highest quality services for patients. 
Additionally, while t he diagnosis and decision -making process is still determined by the 
review and  expertise of trained healthcare professionals, AI -generated insights that 
take into account patient history, diagnostic test results, and medical records may 
assist clinicians with making a comprehensive diagnosis and formulating a  


ACLA Response to RFI on AI Action Plan  page 2 
 
   
 personalized  treatment plan for each patient.  
 
As the Administration works to develop its AI Action Plan , ACLA urges relevant 
departments  and agencies to adhere to the following the principles to maximize the 
benefits of AI tools, minimize risks, and foster innovation:   
 
• Regulatory Clarity:  The scope of regulatory and congressional oversight 
over AI tools should be clear and transparent, as predictability in oversight 
will help guide the development of AI tools  and encourage deployment of 
emerging technologies  that will ultimately benefit patients . 
• Flexibility : The rapid development  of AI underscores the need for policies 
to be flexible enough to keep pace with technological advancements.  Where 
appropriate , AI regulation should consider the evolving benchmarks and 
standards developed by the AI research community  to ensure that AI 
models are able to reach the full scope of their potential and are not 
hindered by potentially  outdated approaches . 
• Risk-Based Approach:  Regulation of AI tools should be sector -specific, 
balance risks and benefits to patients, and avoid overregulation that could 
stifle innovation and delay adoption. Specifically, AI regulation should 
consider  the risk presented by a particular use case and the context in which 
the tool is used, and tailor requirements accordingly. Where appropriate, 
existing regulatory frameworks should be leveraged , and any new oversight 
should work with  existing frameworks . Any new authorities  also should  avoid 
unnecessarily overlapping or duplicative requirements  that cou ld slow the 
adoption of innovative AI technologies . Additionally, any regulatory 
requirements should be agile and adaptable to an increasingly evolving 
technology.  
• Transparency : AI systems should provide transparency that enables users 
to understand the validity, reliability, and trustworthiness  of the system. 
ACLA members are committed to designing trustworthy AI tools , identifying 
any limitations of data , and clearly communicating such limitations.  
o Guardrails for Use of AI in Coverage Decisions:  ACLA is 
concerned with the application of AI and other automation that 
currently  negatively impacts patient coverage  and laboratory 
reimbursement. For example, third -party organizations such as 
laboratory benefit managers (LBMs) that health plans contract with 
apply front -end proprietary coding edits that lead to automatic denials 
before the plans have the opportunity to review the claim for coverage 
based on medical necessity. Front -end edits result in a significant 
number of inappropriate claim denials and are a tremendous source 
of administrative burden on the laboratory and the ordering provider 
when claims must be r e-submitted despite each of the laboratory 
testing services being medically necessary based on medical policy. 
AI and automated systems should not be used to deny or impede 


ACLA Response to RFI on AI Action Plan  page 3 
patient  access to services automatically. There must be a human 
evaluation to ensure patients  are not being denied care that is 
medically necessary to address their health conditions.  
•Federal Preemption:  Explicit  and strong federal preemption is necessary
for national uniformity and to prevent a continually growing patchwork of
inconsistent and burdensome state laws  that are infeasible for clinical
laboratories to adhere to  and that will stifle innovation .
•Privacy:  Safeguarding patient data and privacy is paramount to maintain
trust and uphold ethical standards in healthcare. Simultaneously, utilizing
deidentified data for AI innovation enables advancements in diagnosis,
treatment, and personalized medicine, ultimat ely improving patient
outcomes. It is important to strike a thoughtful balance between protecting
sensitive health information and permitting the use of deidentified data for
research and development purposes to further innovation.
•Reimbursement:  As laboratories seek to adopt and invest in new
technologies, like AI, they must have  stable and predictable reimbursement,
reflective of the value of diagnostics to patient care. Implementation of the
Protecting Access to Medicare Act (PAMA) in 2014 resulted in significant
payment cuts to the Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule, whic h has
not seen a payment adjustment since 2020, following three years of up to
10% payment cuts to laboratories. ACLA is working closely with  key
congressional leaders in the House and Senate to advance PAMA reform
that would prevent further payment reduct ions and enact a long -term
solution that would enable sustainable reimbursement rates to provide
laboratories the stability needed for investments into advanced diagnostic
tools, such as AI.  Further, beneficial uses of AI in health care procedures,
including laboratory services that incorporate AI, should be appropriately
reimbursed to reflect their value.
Thank you for your consideration of ACLA’s comments . 
Sincerely,  
Susan Van Meter  
Preside nt, ACLA  


ACLA Response to RFI on AI Action Plan  page 4 
Enclosure : ACLA Artificial Intelligence Policy Paper  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  


