The American Council of Life Insurers is the leading trade association driving public policy and advocacy on behalf of the life insurance 
industry. 90 million American families rely on the life insurance industry for financial protection and retirement security. ACLI’s member 
companies are dedicated to protecting consumers’ financial  wellbeing through life insurance, annuities, retirement plans, long -term care 
insurance, disability income insurance, reinsurance, and dental, vision and other supplemental benefits. ACLI’s 275 member co mpanies 
represent 93 percent of industry assets in t he United States.  
acli.com  Brian Bayerle 
Chief Life Actuary 
Colin Maste rson 
Sr. Policy Analyst 
March 10, 2025 
Submitted Via Email to: ostp-a i-rfi@nitrd.gov 
To: Networking and Information Technolog y Research and Development (NITRD) National 
Coordination Office (NCO), National Science Foundation 
RE: Request for Information - Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
(“Plan”) 
Disclaimer : This document is approved for public dissemination. 
The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential information. 
Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
The American Council of Li fe Insurers (ACLI) appreciates the opportunity to provide 
feedb ack in response to the National Science Foundation’s Februar y 6, 2025, posting of 
its “Request for Information - Development of an Artificial Intelligen ce (AI) Action Plan 
(“Plan”)”  (RFI) to th e Federal Register. In accordan ce with a Januar y 23rd Executive Order 
signed by President Trump , we understand that the purpose of thi s RFI is to aid in the 
development of a policy plan that help s ensur e the continued growth and sustainability of 
the U.S. AI infrastructure while also continuing to allow for public sector innovation in this 
space.  
ACLI advocates on behalf of 275 member companies dedicated to providing products and 
services that promote consumer s’ financial and retirement security. Financial security is 
our core business, and retirement security for all Amer icans is a critical mission. We 
protect 90 million American families with financial products that reduce risk and increase 
financial security, including life insurance, annuiti es, retirement plans, long-term care 
America n Council of Life Insurers  |  101 Constitution Ave, NW, Suite 700  |  Washington, DC 20001- 2133 


2 insurance, disability income insurance, reinsurance, and other supplemental benefits such 
as dental and vision.  
Our country’s  life insurance companies have long been committed to providing access to 
financial security for all Americans, regardless of where or how they work, their life stage, 
or the economic status of their household. Life insurance products play a significant ro le in 
financial empowerment due to their transformative ability to provide financial security and 
build intergenerational wealth.  
However, it should also be acknowledged that the  life insurance industry is well regulated 
by the insurance commissioners in each state, and this extends to the use of technology. 
The National Association of Insur ance  Commissioners (NAIC) recently developed a Model 
Bulletin on the Use of Artificial Intelligence Systems by Insurers  (NAIC AI Model Bulletin) . 
Critically, t he NAIC AI Model Bulletin  enumerates how existing state laws to protect 
consumers of insurance products, including the Unfair Trade Practices Model Act  (NAIC 
Model #880) and Unfair Claims Settlement Practices Model Act  (NAIC Model #900), apply 
to the insurer uses of advanced technologies such as AI. The NAIC AI Model Bulletin  has 
been adopted in  nearly 20 states so far (with more expected in 2025) , and we support 
broader adoption to ensure consistent requirements for insurers  nationwide . 
America’s life insurance industry is taking action to empower working class families across 
the country achieve economic prosperity . The adoption  of emerging  technologies such as 
AI enables  life insurers to fulfill our core mission of enhanc ing financial security  for millions 
of people . We also stand behind  the strength of our state -based regulatory system to 
govern the continued development and implementation of this technology. Therefore, any  
Plan developed by the federal government on AI should defer to the NAIC and state 
insurance departments regarding matters related to life insurers and their products .  
Thank you once again for considering our feedback. We look forward to answering any 
questions you may have .  
Sincerely,  
PS – Along with this letter, we are also providing our August 2, 2024,  response to the U.S. 
Department of the Treasury Request for Information on Uses, Opportunities, and Risks of 
Artificial Intelligence in the Financial Services Sector” (RFI) to the Federal Register 
(Document Citation - 89 FR 50048) .  


