March 1 4, 2025  
AI Ac tion Plan  
Attn: Faisal D'Souza, NITRD NCO 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Re: (90  FR 9088; 2025- 02305) AI Action Plan; Comments of the American College of 
Radiology  
The Am erican College of Radiology (ACR) —a professional association representing more 
than 40,000 diagnostic radiologists, interventional radiologists, radiation oncologists, 
nuclear medicine physicians, and medical physicists—appreciates the opportunity to  ﬁle 
comments with the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) and the 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO)  to inform the future “AI Action Plan. ”  The following comme nts 
are a response to the Request for Information  (RFI)  published February  6, 2025 (90 FR 9088; 
2025-02305).    
Notice  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or conﬁdential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
Backg roun d 
The radiology physician specialty has long been the vanguard of healthcare AI, with over 1,000 AI -enabled software medical devices authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) to date.  AI -enabled tools provide a wide range of augmentative 
functions for radiologists as they review and interpret medical imaging studies.  These 
functions include prioritizing cases, detecting and highlighting abnormalities in imaging studies for radiologists to review, characterizing disease progression, assisting  with image 
analysis to create data for inclusion by radiologists in their  reports , and more.   
Recog nizing AI’s promise to enhance patient care, the  ACR established its Data Science 
Institute (DSI) in 2017 to advance safe, effective, and clinically useful radiology AI 
innovation s.  The ACR DSI collaborates with radiology professionals, industry, government, 
patients , and other stakeholders in developing programs and tools in support of 
implementation of AI applications that will help improve patient care.  Initiatives include: 


•Deﬁning clinically relevant use cases intended to guide the development of useful
imaging AI  (Deﬁne -AI).
•Establishing t he ﬁrst national recognition program for safe and effective
implementation of A I in imaging practice s (ARCH -AI), and making it broadly
available in 2024 .
•Creating opportunities for monitoring the effectiveness of AI algorithms, including
via America’s ﬁrst large -scale quality registry for AI performance monitoring in real -
world clinical practice  (Assess -AI).
•Making imaging AI information readily available to radiologists to enable  providers to
ﬁnd AI solutions  that best support their patients and workﬂows (AI Central ).
•Addressing the regulatory, legal, and ethical issues associated with radiology AI.
Priorit ies for the AI Action Plan  
The ACR recommends the AI Action Plan includes the following priorities speciﬁc  to 
healthcare AI : 
I.Enable FDA to continue to regulate AI -enabled software medical devices , and to
enhance or modify oversight as needed.  The ACR supports the critical role of the FDA as
the primary federal agency for overseeing the safety and effectiveness of AI -enabled
medical devices.  The public would beneﬁt from expanded FDA authorities to enable the
agency to implement the following:
•Requir e AI device compatibility with balanced, risk appropriate, post -
deployment monitoring mechanisms .  Healthcare providers  should be able  to
monitor AI performance with suitable and recognized tools.  Monitoring could
include collaboration with trusted third parties, such as ACR and other
organizations with AI registry programs.  The additive safety and effectivenessassurance of post -deployment performance monitoring programs for certain
software devices could also enable pre -market regulatory ﬂexibility.
•Improv e AI  transparency , including consideration of “ AI nutrition label s” that
enable end -users  to readily understand product -speciﬁc  safety and effectiveness
considerations .  An exampl e of this would be  information on pediatric
testing/training and medical u se considerations .
•Require more speciﬁcity about the qualiﬁcations of intended end -users  of a
given AI -enabled software medical device to ensure those providing patient care
services with the AI can do so safely and effectively  with  the expertise and
autonomy to identify and resolve AI performance concerns.
II.Prov ide new, physician -informed  payment for high clinical value AI .  The Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and other payers should provide fair valuation of


new and existing imaging services, including appropriate recognition of physicians and 
their practice expenses.  
For AI  innovations that provide valuable data and additive information unavailable to 
physicians and their patients without the use of the tools, new funding must come from outside of the current physician payment system.  CMS should collaborate with 
radiologists and other physicians to deﬁne clinical value and identify innovations worthy of 
new payment. 
III.Ensure healthcare AI is appropriately, safely, and effectively  implemented and
used by providers .  The  AI Action Plan  should consider the quality  and safety  of AI
implementations and appropriate medical use , such as via accreditation by FDA - or CMS -
recognized accredit ation bodies .  These programs should ensure AI end -users within
accredited facilities are qualiﬁed , adhere to standards of care and best practices, and have
appropriate AI governance  infrastructure s and monitoring program s in place.
Accr editation programs are  demonstrably successful at  improving  the quality  and safety of 
healthcare services .  For example,  ACR  has partner ed with FDA and CMS on  mandatory  
accreditation for mammography and advanced diagnostic imaging .  
Thank yo u for your consideration of these healthcare -speciﬁc priorities for inclusion in the 
future AI Action Plan .  The ACR invites collaboration with OSTP and NITRD NCO staff.  
Please contact Michael Peters, Senior Director, Government Affairs, at with questions.  
Sinc erely,  
Dana H. Sme therman, MD, MPH, MBA, FACR 
Chief Executive Officer  
American College of Radiology  


