   
 
  1 
 Principles:  
The American Chemical Society ( ACS) recognizes the importance of a rtificial 
intelligence as an emerging technology that has significant potential to create change. 
ACS is excited for the potential AI provides as a tool for innovation, research, and other 
improvements to society. AI has been used extensively and increasingly in the chemical 
sciences  in applications such as predicting the folding of proteins, developing various  
drug discovery systems, and predicting chemical properties. ACS also recognizes the 
critical importance that AI systems be developed and deployed safely and responsibly to  
avoid causing harm  to human life, health, or the environment , and to ensure respect for 
intellectual property rights . Regulations on AI will affect the chemical enterprise . 
ACS believe s the following principles are key when developing , using, deploying , and 
regulating artificial intelligence : 
•  Privacy and Security  
o Individual’s data is handled responsibly, including the ability to opt -out or 
opt-in to data use in AI, depending on the use -case . 
o Sensitive information is handled responsibly and securely during training 
and use of AI . 
o Established rights should be protected by shielding individuals against 
discrimination, fraud, and privacy invasions that emerge from AI use.  
• Transparency  and Disclosure  
o AI systems should be trained on content and data which is accessed 
lawfully  and, where the intellectual property of others is used, prior 
authorization has been obtained . 
o The content and sources used to train an AI system  should be publicly and 
clearly identified.   
o Users of AI based tools are made aware of the presence and use of AI in 
those interactions.  
o Readers and users of AI -generated materials are  made  aware of how AI 
was used  in the material’s creation.  
o AI actors should be held accountable for the proper functioning of AI 
systems , the model’s generated output,  and for respecting intellectual 
property rights and the privacy and dignity of all individuals  involved . 
• Education  and Workforce Development  
o AI literacy  should be promoted to equip individuals to engage productively 
and responsibly with AI technologies both personally and professionally.  
o AI systems should be used to help all students achieve their educational 
goals  while still fostering learning skills , particularly considering the 
ongoing digital divide , and educators should have workforce support and 
retraining to effectively use AI tools.  


   
 
  2 
 o AI systems used in education must ensure privacy, data security, student 
safety, and child and youth protection. Data collection and monitoring, 
data transfer and ownership policies should be specific and transparent.  
o Decision -making functions supported by AI must allow for  human 
intervention and ultimately rely on human approval processes. AI systems 
should serve in supportive roles without replacing the responsibilities of 
students, teachers,  hiring professionals or administrators.  Mechanisms 
should be in place to override, repair, or decommission AI systems at risk 
of causing undue harm or exhibiting undesired behavior , and appeals 
processes should be established.  
• Social Impacts  
o AI use and deployment should not operate to reinforce inequalit y. 
o AI systems should promote fairness and  seek to avoid causing 
disproportionate harm to any person or group of people.   
o Developers and regulators should work to intentionally engage multiple 
stakeholders  when  developing and regulating AI . 
o AI technologies should be designed and deployed in a way which is not 
harmful to the environment or to human life, health  or dignity . 
• Evaluation  
o Guidance for all aspects of AI should be reviewed and updated regularly to 
ensure compliance and relevance with rapidly ch anging laws, regulations, 
and technology . 
o As AI infrastructure increases energy usage , grid resiliency  and flexibility , 
use of a variety  of energy source s, efficiency and sustainability  of the 
energy used , as well as  security must be considered.  The prioritization of 
long-term sustainability and resiliency will help create an AI infrastructure 
that allows the US to remain a leader in technology and innovation . 
• Innovation  
o AI technology is expensive, and dependent on large dat a sets and 
computing power, giving an advantage  to large companies. Infrastructure 
required for the effective development of  new AI technologies  should be 
accessible to universities and companies of all sizes . 
o As well as computing power and technology, non-propriet ary content and 
data required  to develop novel models and algorithms should be widely 
available and  of high quality . Wherever possible, the government should 
support efforts to develop databases of these data that are accessible to 
the public.  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  
 


