1 VIA ELECT RONIC MAIL 
March 14, 2025 
Faisal D’Souza, NCO 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA  22314 
RE: AI Action Plan 
90 FR 9088, February 6, 2025 Federal Register  
Comments of Americans for Prosperity  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution 
Dear Mr. D’Souza: 
On behalf of Americans for Prosperity, and the millions of American individuals and families it 
represents across the country, we write to you to enthusiastically share our thoughts for how the 
administration can leverage an AI action plan to ensure that the country not only maintains, but 
expands its global leadership in this promising technology.  
The good news is that the administration has already taken some key steps towards putting the 
country down a path that can unleash the technology to meet the moment. On his first day in 
office, President Trump signed Executive Order 14148, “Initial Recissions of Harmful Executive 
Orders and Actions,” which revoked dozens of the previous administration’s executive actions, 
including EO 14110 on the “Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of AI” from 
October of 2023.1 This was a critical first step, as the Biden executive order represented a threat 
to the long term competitiveness of the United States by abusing emergency power authorities 
like the Defense Production Act to wrap this emerging industry in red tape. That approach 
1 Executive Order 14148, January 20, 2025. 
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/01/28/2025-01901/initial-rescissions-of-
harmful-executive-orders-and-actions . See also, Executive Order 14110, October 30, 2023. 
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2023/11/01/2023-24283/safe-secure-and-trustworthy-
development-and-use-of-artificial-intelligence   


2 would’ve charted the U.S. down a path of innovation policy that would emulate what we have 
seen coming out of the European Union.2 
Looking to the future, here are some things that we think the administration should keep in mind 
when exploring its potential AI Action plan and how it can be most impactful: 
THE CURRENT LANDSCAPE OF AI POLICY 
The landscape for AI has been a whirlwind over the last couple of years, going from a 
background conversation to the forefront of many, as lawmakers at both the state and federal 
level recognize the technology’s transformative impact across many sectors of the economy.  
While the federal government has been unable to come to a consensus for a light touch and 
sensible policy around AI federally, states are increasingly looking to play a role in the 
conversation. Last year, there were over 700 bills introduced between Congress and the various 
states around the country. Colorado became the first state to pass a comprehensive AI bill that 
even Governor Jared Polis recognized was problematic as he signed it into law, noting the 
legislation could create “a complex compliance regime for all developers and deployers of AI” 
and the state was essentially kicking off a patchwork race that would “tamper innovation and 
deter competition”. 3 
California was another state that unsurprisingly had an extraordinarily bad proposal from their 
state legislature, SB 1047, which sought to regulate frontier AI models and create a massive 
bureaucracy to oversee the sector and regulate it. To his credit, Governor Newsome recognized 
the deeply flawed approach being taken by the legislature and vetoed that legislation.4 
This year, we are barely 3 months in and there are already over 800 proposals to regulate AI in 
the states alone, clocking in at a pace of 11 bills a day.5 We are well on track to cross over 1,000 2 Czerniawski, James. “President Biden’s Executive Order on AI Reinforces His Administration’s 
Hostility Toward Emerging Technology”. Americans for Prosperity. October 30, 2023. 
https://americansforprosperity.org/press-release/president-bidens-executive-order-on-ai-
reinforces-his-administrations-hostility-toward-emerging-technology/   
3 Colorado General Assembly. (2024). Senate Bill 24-205. Retrieved from 
https://leg.colorado.gov/bills/sb24-205 . See also, Polis, Jared. SB24-205 Signing Statement. May 
17 2024. https://www.dwt.com/-/media/files/blogs/artificial-intelligence-law-
advisor/2024/05/sb24205-signing-
statement.pdf?rev=a902184eafe046cfb615bb047484e11c&hash=213F4C6CDFF52A876011290
C24406E7F   
4 California Legislature. (2023-2024). Senate Bill 1047, Safe and Secure Innovation for Frontier 
Artificial Intelligence Models Act. 
https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billTextClient.xhtml?bill_id=202320240SB1047  See also, California Office of the Governor. SB-1047 Veto Message. September, 2024. 
https://www.gov.ca.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/SB-1047-Veto-Message.pdf  5 Multistate. Artificial Intelligence (AI) legislation. March 13, 2025. 
https://www.multistate.ai/artificial-intelligence-ai-legislation   


3 proposals in the states before the end of this year. Part of the issue with this approach is that this 
technology isn’t contained within a single state’s borders by design. If every single state starts 
regulating different aspects of an all-purpose technology of AI, it is going to create a massive 
compliance cost regime that will stifle competition and limit opportunities for economic growth 
during a period where it couldn’t be more critical.  
These types of proposals are couched in fear of the technology, running off a paradigm that is 
diametrically opposed to the market approach that the government followed during the 1990s 
when exploring the internet, ecommerce, and online speech. Then, the government under 
President Clinton correctly recognized the importance of keeping itself out of the way to drive 
innovation and empower human flourishing without needing the sign off from some 
unaccountable and unelected bureaucrat from Washington D.C. 
AI INFRASTRUCTURE: DATA CENTERS AND ENERGY According to the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), data centers can consume 10 to 50 times the 
energy per floor space of a typical commercial office building; and data centers account for 
roughly 2% of total U.S. electricity use.6    
Data centers are energy-intensive primarily because they provide power and cooling for 
numerous servers and networking equipment responsible for storing and processing massive 
amounts of data.7  Because they operate 24/7, a constant supply of energy is needed.  The energy 
required for cooling is a significant reason for the center’s overall energy consumption.  As the 
servers process data, heat is generated; and cooling is necessary to prevent overheating and to 
maintain the reliability of the equipment.  8 
AI-ready data centers have high average power densities – the energy consumption of servers in 
the racks.9  According to McKinsey & Company, “(a)verage power densities have more than 
doubled in just two years, to 17 kilowatts (kW) per rack, from eight kW, and are expected to rise 
to as high as 30 kW by 2027 as AI workloads increase.  Training models like ChatGPT can 6 Data Centers and Servers, U.S. Department of Energy,  
https://www.energy.gov/eere/buildings/data-centers-and-
servers#:~:text=Data%20centers%20are%20one%20of,a%20typical%20commercial%20office%
20building . 
7 “What to Know About Data Center Growth, Energy Usage, and Efficiency,” Post by Yes 
Energy, No author named, YES ENERGY, https://blog.yesenergy.com/yeblog/data-center-
growth-energy-usage-and-efficiency  
8 Id. 
9 “AI power”  Expanding data center capacity to meet growing demand,” Collaborative effort by 
Bhargs Srivathsan, Marc Sorel, and Pankaj Sachdeva, with Arjita Bhan, Haripreet Batra, Raman 
Sharma, Rishi Gupta, and Surbhi Choudhary, representing views from McKinsey’s Technology, 
Media & Telecommunications Practice, October 29, 2024. 
https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/technology-media-and-telecommunications/our-insights/ai-power-expanding-data-center-capacity-to-meet-growing-demand  


4 consume more than 80 kW per rack, while Nvidia’s latest chip, the GB200, combined with its 
servers, may require rack densities of up to 120 kW.”10   And Goldman Sachs Research estimates 
that power demand from data centers will grow 160% by 2030.11   
“A single ChatGPT query requires 2.9 watt-hours of electricity, 
compared with 0.3 watt-hours for a Google search, according to 
the International Energy Agency.  Goldman Sachs Research 
estimates the overall increase in data center power consumption 
from AI to be on the order of 200 terawatt-hours per year between 
2023 and 2030.  By 2028, our analysts expect AI to represent about 
19% of data center power demand.” 12  
In 2023, data centers in Northern Virginia had a combined power consumption capacity of 2,552 
MW, four times the capacity of the Dallas area (654 MW) or the capacity of Silicon Valley (615 
MW). 13  More than one third of global online traffic is handled through the Northern Virginia 
data center market.14   
This demand for power within the Commonwealth of Virginia, an area within the territory of 
PJM, a Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) that coordinates the movement of wholesale 
electricity in all or parts of 13 states and the District of Columbia, resulted in adjustments to its 
2024 forecasts for load in its territory. 15  The “PJM Load Forecast Report January 2024” notes 
that forecasts for a number of zones had been adjusted to account for “large, unanticipated load 
changes, market adjustments, and peak shaving adjustments…:” 16   
The AEP17 zone has been adjusted to account for growth in data center load;
The APS18 zone has been adjusted to account for growth in data center load;
The DOM19 zone has been adjusted to account for growth in data center load;
10 Id. 
11 “AI is poised to drive 160% increase in data center power demand,” No author named, May 
14, 2024,  
https://www.goldmansachs.com/insights/articles/AI-poised-to-drive-160-increase-in-power-
demand 
12 Id. 
13 Supra, Footnote 2.   
14 Id. 
15 PJM Load Forecast Report, January, 2024, Revised 2/1/2024, Prepared by PJM Resource 
Adequacy Planning Department, https://www.pjm.com/-/media/DotCom/library/reports-
notices/load-forecast/2024-load-report.ashx  
16 Id., p. 1.   
17 Id., AEP being a reference to American Electric Power zone. 
18 Id., APS being a reference to Allegheny Power zone. 
19 Id., DOM being a reference to Dominion Viginia Power zone. 


5 The PS20 zone has been adjusted to account for growth in data center load and port
electrification; ….” 
And four of the six zone forecasts were adjusted specifically for growth in data center load. 
Other states where data centers are locating are likewise grappling with power consumption, load 
growth, and who should pay for the generation and transmission to get power to end users.   
In Georgia, by mid-year 2024, data center construction had increased 76% in the Atlanta market 
compared to the same time in 2023.21  Georgia Power, the investor owned electric utility that 
provides service in 155 of Georgia’s 159 counties, on January 31, 2025, filed its January, 2025 
“2025 Integrated Resource Plan.” 22 In that document, it states that its 
“risk-adjusted load forecast from the winter of 2024/2025 through 
the winter of 2030/2031 reflects approximately 8,200 MW of load 
growth, representing an increase of more than 2,200 MW 
compared to load growth projections in the 2023 IRP Update for 
the same period.  In the near-term, the Company projects nearly 
6,000 MW of load growth as early as the winter of 2028/2029.  
Over the next ten years – through the winter of 2023/2025 – 
Georgia Power expects up to 9,400 MW of load growth.”23 
It further noted that “(t)he utility industry is also experiencing extraordinary growth in electricity 
demand driven by the manufacturing and infrastructure that support these …. technology 
advancements, including economic development associated with data centers….24 
In the current 2025-2026 legislative session in the Georgia General Assembly, Senate Bill 34 was 
introduced.  That bill would amend the Georgia Code so that no costs incurred by an electric 
utility associated with increased fuel requirements, generation costs, and transmission costs that 
are substantially related to the provision of electric services to commercial data centers and that 
would not have been incurred but for the electric demand of those commercial data centers, can 
be included in any rates unless those rates or charges are designed to recover those costs solely 
from commercial data centers or at least substantially recovery those costs from commercial data 
centers.  Commercial data centers are defined in the bill as facilities used by an entity to manage, 
maintain, or operate a computer or group of computers with a peak demand of 100 megawatts or 
greater.   20 Id., PS being a reference to Public Service Electric & Gas zone. 
21 “Why Is Georgia Attracting So Many New Data Centers?”  by Zachary Hansen, Drew Kann, 
October 7, 2024, The Atlanta Journal Constitution , https://www.govtech.com/analytics/why-is-
georgia-attracting-so-many-new-data-centers  
22 “2025 Integrated Resource Plan, January 2025,” Georgia Power Company’s 2025 Integrated 
Resource Plan; Georgia Public Service Commission, Docket No. 56002, filed January 31, 2025, 
23 Id., p. 1.   
24 Id., p. 85.   


6 The question of “who will pay” to get all this energy to the end-user data center will continue to 
be discussed in the coming years.   
What Makes Sense For Data Center Locations 
Emerging data center markets are springing up all across the country.  Areas with abundant 
energy supply and less constraints on the grid are being chosen as site locations.25  
And some data centers are generating their own power using batteries, fuel cells, or 
renewables.26 And “(i)n the longer term, small modular reactors (SMRs) might be an option.”27 
With the expanse of federal lands managed by the government, the opening of those lands to data 
centers could be a solution worth exploring.  While data centers use a tremendous amount of 
water; and as water is relatively scarce in some parts of the West, that is an issue that would have 
to be worked through before data centers on federal lands could be scattered throughout those 
areas.  Yet the possibility of leasing federal lands for that purpose should be given serious 
consideration.   
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT ROLE The administration should look to cement the gains it makes in AI policy by working side by side 
with Congress to pass legislation federally around Artificial Intelligence. While we appreciate the 
early moves the administration has taken, and are excited to see what comes next, many of those 
actions can be easily undone by future administrations. We believe that it is imperative that in 
order to create generational change, the administration should work with the relevant committees 
to put forward legislation that codify some of these efforts and approaches to provide the 
necessary certainty and clarity for what the future looks like here.  
In the short term, we think it is critical that the White House plays the role of convener and 
teacher, driving a moratorium to establish a learning period on AI for Congress and federal 
regulators. It’s important for policymakers and regulators to understand technology before 
seeking to create new rules to govern it. In many instances, existing laws can and do apply to AI. 
In the past, a moratorium has been helpful in protecting new technologies from excessive 
government actions. For example, in 1998, Congress passed the Internet Tax Freedom Act to 
ensure that the internet and ecommerce weren’t subjected to excessive taxation. Congress 
correctly recognized the value in this approach when it made this provision permanent in 2016.28 
25 Supra, footnote 4.   
26 Id. 
27 Id. 
28 Congressional Research Service. The Internet Tax Freedom Act and Federal Preemption. 
October 18, 2021. https://www.congress.gov/crs-product/IF11947   


7 Exploring ways to implement similar solutions will be critical to ensuring long-term success in 
the development and deployment of AI technologies around the country.  
Protecting Open Source 
It’s impossible to have the conversation around AI without looking at open source. Open source 
is crucial for fostering collaboration, facilitating further diffusion of AI technology, and 
accelerating avenues of innovation for entrepreneurs, making it a critical part of the AI 
ecosystem.  
While there is a role and value in closed ecosystems for AI technology, open source empowers a 
process where the technology is developed in the open, allowing individuals to more quickly 
learn and iterate their projects accordingly.29  
As Neil Chilson and Logan Whitehair correctly note in their comment for the Abundance 
Institute to the NTIA’s request for public input regarding dual use foundation AI models, open 
source has created a ton of value in the ecosystem. According to one study, open source created 
over an estimated $8 trillion dollars in value.30  
It’s important that the administration in proposals work with Congress to ensure that potential 
legislative proposals do not contain provisions that would hinder the ability of open-source AI to 
exist and operate in the broader ecosystem. Use-case oriented, harm focused with ex post  
enforcement that is agnostic on whether the tool is open or not are more likely to be effective.31 
Attempting to restrict or prevent open-source AI would needlessly harm the U.S.’ competitive 
status while simultaneously presenting a ripe constitutional challenge on first amendment 
grounds.  
29 Richardson, Deb. Why open source is critical to the future of AI. Red Hat. January 21, 2025. 
https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/why-open-source-critical-future-
ai#:~:text=When%20research%2C%20code%20and%20tools%20are%20shared,that%20typicall
y%20limit%20access%20to%20leading%2Dedge%20innovations.&text=Since%20open%20sou
rce%20projects%20reduce%20the%20barriers,AI%20models%20as%20they%20are%20being%
20developed .  
30 Chilson, Neil and Whitehair, Logan. Public Interest Comment on the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) Dual Use Foundation Artificial 
Intelligence Models with Widely available Model Weights Request for Public Input. March 27, 
2024. file:///C:/Users/James%20Czerniawski/Downloads/NTIA-2023-0009-0246_attachment_1.pdf  See also, Manuel Hoffman et al., The Value of Open Source Software 
(Jan. 1, 2024), Harvard Business School Strategy Unit Working Paper No. 24-038, available at 
http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4693148 .  31 Id. 


8 Accelerating AI Development and Deployment  
To seize the moment and ensure that AI can meet its true promise and potential, the 
administration should streamline the process to get existing roadblocks out of the way. During 
the first Trump administration, they were creative in doing this in a couple of ways.  
For example, in 2016, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau set up a regulatory sandbox 
program to foster innovation in financial services.32 While the previous administration scaled 
back the program, essentially putting it on a shelf, it’s a welcome sight to see that the CFPB is 
restarting this program under the current administration.33 The agency leveraged the sandbox and 
no-action letters to allow firms to test new products and services. The reality is that every 
industry could benefit from having a more flexible regulatory environment, not just financial 
services. As such, in the context of AI, the administration should work with Congress to explore 
ways to implement a similar type of program for AI.  
Additionally, during the pandemic, the administration launched a very successful program in 
operation warp speed (OWS) to tackle some of the most pressing issues facing the country at the 
time.34 As the president acknowledged later that year during an OWS summit, the typical 
timeframe for development and approval “could be infinity”, but through their efforts with OWS, 
the country was able to have multiple vaccines developed and deployed in just nine months.35 
That stands as an incredible testament to the ability of the private sector to meet the moment 
when the government identifies key hurdles blocking the path to getting something done and 
streamlines it. The government should explore how it could replicate the successes of OWS once 
again by recreating a similar program for AI and healthcare use cases, where the impact of the 
technology doesn’t just mean advances in science, but also potentially saving lives. Furthermore, 
the government should look to expand that concept beyond the FDA and HHS to other executive 
agencies. Every agency should be looking for their own operation warp speed program to 
streamline navigating the administrative processes they oversee.  
Furthermore, it’s important to recognize that unleashing innovation is necessary and critical to 
facilitating economic growth, it’s insufficient to rely on that solely capture to its full benefits. 
Earlier, we discussed the aspects of energy and AI Infrastructure with respect to data centers. The 32 Congressional Research Service. Regulatory Sandboxes at the Consumer Financial Protection 
Bureau. January 15, 2025. https://www.congress.gov/crs-product/IF12875   
33 Dhaliwal S., A.J. et al, National Law Review. CFPB Updates No-Action Letter and 
Compliance Assistance Policies to Spur Innovation. January 10, 2025. 
https://natlawreview.com/article/cfpb-updates-no-action-letter-and-compliance-assistance-
sandbox-policies-spur#google_vignette   
34 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Trump Administration announces framework 
and leadership for Operation Warp Speed. May 15, 2020. 
https://web.archive.org/web/20201216233803/https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2020/05/15/trump-administration-announces-framework-and-leadership-for-operation-warp-speed.html
35 The White House. Remarks by President Trump at the Operation warp Speed Vaccine Summit. 
December 8, 2020. https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-
president-trump-operation-warp-speed-vaccine-summit/   


9 reason we believe it is so important is that the energy landscape is strewn with examples of past 
innovations stuck in the starting blocks due to permitting barriers that block deployment and 
scaling of cutting-edge solutions.  
Innovations in logistics and supply chains that support implementation of the best solutions are 
similarly afflicted by a regulatory mindset dominated by the “precautionary principle” – a 
systematic biasing of policy tradeoffs that fixates on worst case outcomes while discounting the 
potential benefits of industry experimentation.  
The stultifying combination of permitting barriers and regulatory morass explains why, for 
example, the United States has seen only a single new reactor licensed to completion in the near 
half-century since the establishment of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. It’s also why, after 
nearly a decade of agency reviews and litigation and with the project over 90 percent 
constructed, Congress thought it necessary to take the extraordinary step in the Fiscal 
Responsibility Act of providing a blanket authorization for a natural gas pipeline linking key 
supply and demand nodes in the interstate pipeline network. Predicting the future is hard, 
particularly for governments. But the emerging bipartisan consensus is that the status quo will 
only bring more of the same. That is an outcome we find unacceptable.  
Accordingly, the administration and Congress must double-down on its recent efforts to clear the 
red tape bogging down energy innovators and implementors. AI and its power demands are very 
real. While some proposed “solutions” would seek to constrain demand, we believe that the 
administration and Congress put forward a solution that expands supply to get abundant and 
affordable energy to Americans and leading AI companies.   
Senator Mike Lee has a proposal, the PIONEER Act, that recognizes the need for a broader 
approach to tackling these issues. The legislation creates a broader Office of Federal Regulatory 
Relief within the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs.36 In striking a balance that 
empowers innovation and respects the purpose and intent of regulations, to protect the health, 
safety and financial well-being of consumers, the PIONEER Act is an added arrow to the quiver 
of innovation policy the government can work with to maximize the promise and potential of AI 
and other emerging technologies. 
36 U.S. Congress. Senate Bill 4919, Promoting Innovation and Offering the Needed Escape from 
Exhaustive Regulations Act (PIONEER Act). https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-
congress/senate-bill/4919/text   


10 CONCLUSION  
Artificial intelligence is an extraordinary technology, with the capability to have a 
transformational impact on so many aspects of society. We look forward to seeing how the 
administration’s AI Action plan comes into shape and stand ready to work with both the 
administration and Congress to implement a plan that reflects a vision where AI can meet this 
moment. 
Sincerely, 
Faith Burns 
Energy Policy Fellow 
Americans for Prosperity 
James Czerniawski 
Senior Policy Analyst, Technology and Innovation 
Americans for Prosperity 


