AFRICA TECH FOR DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVE(AFRICA4DEV)  INPUT ON CALL 
FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (AI) ACTION PLAN 
FOR THE U.S  BY THE NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION ON BEHALF OF THE 
OFFICE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY (OSTP), THE NITRD NCO  
1. INTRODUCTION
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is having tremendous impact on industries, economies, and societies 
globally and as AI technologies continue to evolve, their impact on governance, security, 
workforce development, and ethical considerations becomes increasingly significant. To maintain a competitive edge in AI development and deployment, the United States must adopt a comprehensive, forward -thinking AI Action Plan that prioritizes innovation, responsible 
governance, and strategic international collaboration. 
Africa Tech for Development Initiative (Africa4Dev) is a leading organization committed to 
fostering responsible AI development, ethical AI policy, and inclusive technological advancement. Our mission is to ensure that AI benefits all communities, particularly in the Global South, by advocating for inclusive data representation, ethical AI standards, and sustainable AI policies. Africa4Dev believes that AI should not only serve technological and economic interests but also advance human rights, social good and equitable global participation 
in the AI-driven future. 
A well -structured AI Action Plan will not only solidify the United States position as a global 
leader in AI but also ensure that its AI development aligns with democratic values, human rights, 
and international best practices. This proposed action plan presents the U.S. with a towering opportunity to set down a landmark standard in AI governance one that is pro- innovation while 
simultaneously safeguarding fundamental rights and mitigating possible AI risks. It is extremely crucial to adopt resilient AI policies that foster transparency, accountability, and fairness more so as AI systems increasingly become vital in critical sectors such as finance, national security healthcare, and public services.  


More so , AI is inherently global, requiring cross -border cooperation on regulatory frameworks, 
data- sharing mechanisms, and ethical AI development. Africa4Dev emphasizes the need for 
inclusive AI policymaking that considers diverse cultural, linguistic, and socio-economic 
perspectives. By fostering international collaboration especially with regions like Africa, where AI is emerging as a key driver of economic growth and digital transformation the U.S. can 
enhance its leadership role and contribute to building a globally inclusive AI ecosystem. 
Through this submission, Africa4Dev aims to provide strategic insights and policy 
recommendations to help shape the U.S. AI Action Plan. Our recommendations address key policy areas, including cyber threats and data privacy, AI infrastructure, national security, trustworthiness, regulation, open- source development, explain ability, technical safety standards 
as well as research and development. We believe that an inclusive, well -regulated, and ethically 
governed AI ecosystem is not only essential for the U.S. but also for global AI development. 
In this submission of input, we present concrete policy actions that will support AI innovation 
while ensuring responsible development, security, and sustainability. Integrating t hese policy 
measures will advance an exemplary U.S. leadership  in AI development and regulation globally 
while also ensuring a robust AI future  both for its heterogeneous and homogeneous population as 
well as the international community.  
2.KEY AI POLICY AREAS AND CONCRETE POLICY ACTIONS
A. ADVANCEMENT IN HARDWARE AND CHIPSFactsTaiwan accounts for around 65% of global semiconductor supply, nearly 90% of the smallestand most sophisticated chips and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (TSMC) is aloneresponsible for 55% of the world’s supply
1. As the dynamic advancement in the field of AI is
heavily reliant on high- performance computing hardware, particularly semiconductors and AI -
optimized chips, the U.S. has historically led in semiconductor design, however global supplychain disruptions, geopolitical tensions, and increasing market competition from nations likeChina pose significant risks to AI hardware availability and innovation. The U.S. must
1 Robert J. Bowman, ‘Supply Chain Brain, Does the U.S Need to Reduce its Dependence on Taiwan for 
Semiconductors?’ https://www.supplychainbrain.com/blogs/1- think -tank/post/36085  accessed 3rd March 2025 


implement robust policies that support semiconductor research, domestic manufacturing, and 
technological innovation in AI- specific hardware to maintain its leadership in AI development.  
Recommendation  
i. There should be stronger public -private partnerships between the U.S. government,
leading chip manufacturers and research institutions to drive advancements in AI -
optimized chip design.
ii. Expand funding under the CHIPS and Science Act (2022) to specifically prioritizeAI-driven hardware R&D, ensuring that AI applications are not bottlenecked by
hardware limitations.
iii. AI chip design collaborations between academia and the private sector through postresearch grants, and shared R&D infrastructure to accelerate AI semiconductorinnovation
2. This will lead to innovations that will cut down on the high cost of
building these chips.
iv. A dedicated AI Hardware Innovation Fund under the National Artificial IntelligenceInitiative Office (NAIIO) should be established to accelerate the creation of low -
power, high- performance AI processors tailored for large -scale machine learning
applications.
v. Accelerate domestic fabrication capacity for AI chips should be expanded throughinvestments in U.S.- based semiconductor companies such as Micron which as $40
billion dollar plan to build memory manufacturing in the U.S, extension ofpartnership between Global foundries and Qualcomm, reducing reliance on TaiwanSemiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) and South Korean firms.
vi. Implement a long -term AI Hardware Security and Supply Chain Resilience Strategy
in collaboration with the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) toensure that AI chip production is safeguarded against geopolitical risks.
vii. Establish strategic reserves of critical raw materials (rare earth elements) needed forAI chip production to help forestall any unforeseen disruption in supply chain.
2 CHIPS and Science Act of 2022, ‘National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Semiconductor Research 
Programs ’ (2022),  https://www.nist.gov/news -events/news/2022/08/chips -and-science -act-2022 -key-investments -us-
innovation/  accessed 3rd March 2025  


B. REDUCTION IN ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY DATA CENTERS
FactsThe demand for large -scale data centers continues to increase as artificial intelligence (AI)
models become increasingly complex. While these data centers are essential for AI modeltraining, storage, and processing, they consume vast amounts of energy and contributesignificantly to carbon emissions. According to the International Energy Agency (IEA), datacenters currently account for nearly 1% of global electricity consumption , with projections
indicating continued increases as AI adoption expands
3.
The U.S must show commitment in the drive for environmental protection globally and should prioritize its leadership in the establishment of energy -efficient infrastructure and implement 
greener technologies incentives as this will ensure that AI development is sustainable and environmentally friendly. This AI policy must address the ease of scaling AI solutions while at same time ensuring they are environmentally sustainable so that AI- driven innovation does not 
come at the cost of environmental depletion. This is desirable because the world is currently grappling with challenges of high energy consumption by data centers and presents an opportunity for innovation leadership on the part of the U.S to halt this. 
Recommendation  
i.Require federal agencies and government- funded AI research projects  to use energy-
friendly AI models  that prioritize low- power AI hardware  and optimized training
algorithms as well as grants for AI data centers that utilize renewable energy sources.
ii.Encourage public -private partnerships between AI technology firms and energy
companies to fund joint research on AI- driven clean energy solutions for data centers.
iii.Mandate research programs through government funding to enable innovations on smart
grid technologies and machine learning models that optimize energy consumption in realtime with the capacity to predict peak usage hours, adjust cooling systems dynamically,and optimize computational loads to reduce energy consumption.
3 Thomas Spencer, Siddharth Singh, ‘What the data centre and AI boom could mean for the energy sector ’ (18 
October 2024) , https://www.iea.org/commentaries/what -the-data-centre- and-ai-boom -could -mean -for-the-energy -
sector/  accessed 6th March 2024  


iv.Distributing computational loads and decreasing overall energy consumption by way of
promotion of edge computing to reduce reliance on centralized cloud data centers,.
C. OPEN- SOURCE AI MODEL DEVELOPMENT
FactsAlthough Artificial Intelligence (AI) model development is becoming the fountain of innovation,driving advancements in healthcare, finance, education, and governance. However, as AI modelsbecome more powerful, concerns regarding transparency, accountability, and equitable access
have emerged. The U.S. must implement policies that balance innovation, security, and ethicalconsiderations , ensuring AI development benefits all sectors of society while maintaining its
global leadership.
A huge challenge in AI governance is the level of non- transparency in foundational AI model 
and large -scale AI systems developed by private entities with minimal external oversight. These 
models, such as GPT -4, Gemini, Claude  and Grok influence public discourse, decision- making, 
and critical infrastructure, yet their internal workings remain highly unknown. To ensure a secure 
and responsible AI ecosystem, U.S. policy must establish clear transparency standards and promote responsible open-source development amongst AI companies that develop AI-models. 
Recommendation  
i. Allocate government grants for global open -source AI projects focused on ethical AI,
security, and bias mitigation, ensuring that open AI models benefit education, research,
and public- sector applications.
ii. Encourage partnerships between leading AI firms, universities, and research institutionsglobally to co- develop secure, high -quality open- source AI tools that align with U.S.
strategic interests.
iii. Establish Transparency Requirements for Foundational AI Models to PromoteAcc
ountability in governance, data, performance, and monitoring to help federal agencies
and others use AI responsibly as in line with the US Accountability office Accountability
framework for Federal Agencies and other Entities4. The U.S can through its foreign
4 GAO -21-519SP,  ‘Artificial Intelligence: An Accountability Framework for Federal Agencies and Other Entities ’ 
(June 30, 2021), https://www.gao.gov/products/gao -21-519sp   accessed 6th March 2025 


relations department collaborate with other countries to adopt such transparency 
requirements.  
iv. Exert explainability standards which will require AI companies to disclose model
architectures, training datasets, and decision -making processes for high- risk AI
applications , particularly in finance, healthcare, law enforcement, and national security .
v. Establish an AI Model Oversight Body under the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST)  or the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to conduct independent
audits of AI models , ensuring they comply with ethical, legal, and fairness standards.
vi. Require AI developers to submit bias impact assessments before deploying AI models at
scale. This aligns with initiatives such as the EU AI Act’s risk -based approach  to AI
regulation. Also there is need to develop a public AI transparency index to track how well
AI models comply with transparency and accountability requirements.
D. USE OF AI APPLICATIONS IN THE PRIVATE SECTOR AND GOVERNMENT
Facts
Artificial Intelligence (AI) has had transformative impact is in several industries, while drivingefficiency, innovation, and economic growth across the private and public sectors. AI adoption ingovernment operations  can streamline public services, defense strategies, and regulatory
compliance .  A good example is the launch of new digital services to streamline military
management by the Ukrainian Military
5. Diia which is an exceptional digital service supports
digitalization in Ukraine by strengthening the Government’s capacity to deliver high quality andaccessible digital services
6.
The unregulated expansion of AI  poses risks, including bias in decision -making, job 
displacement, cyber security  threats, and ethical concerns. To ensure trustworthy AI deployment , 
U.S. policy must establish impact assessment frameworks, ethical guidelines, and human 
oversight mechanisms , safeguarding fairness, accountability, and national security while 
maintaining a competitive edge.  
5 EGA, ‘The Ukrainian defence sector launched new digital services ’(November 15, 2024),  https://ega.ee/ukrainian -
defence- sector -launched -new-digital -services/  accessed 6th March 2025  
6 UNDP, Digital Inclusive, Accessible: Support to Digitalization of Public Services in Ukraine Project (DIA Support 
Project) https://www.undp.org/ukraine/projects/digital -inclusive -accessible- support- digitalisation -public -services -
ukraine -dia-support- project  accessed 6th March 2025  


Recommendation  
i. AI tools used in critical medical operations and decision -making should be subjected to
FDA approval and periodic algorithmic audits to ensure accuracy and patient safety as
well as require explainability from decisions of AI systems.
ii. Organizations deploying AI in high- risk sectors  should be required to conduct AI Impact
Assessments (AIAs)  before public deployment.
iii. Every AI -based legal research tools should be certified by relevant regulatory bodies .
Furthermore, the U.S Justice System needs to ensure AI -generated legal
recommendations are subject to human review and final approval.
iv. There should be expansion on AI adoption in social services, public safety,
transportation, and defense  to improve operational efficiency and citizen engagement. In
achieving this, the success road map of the Ukrainian Government should beunderstudied.
v. A human interface framework to review AI driven recommendations used in critical
public sectors  should be implemented.
E. ASSUR ANCE AND EXPLAINABILITY OF AI MODEL OUTPUTS
Fact s
As global AI regulations gains prominence, there is now an increasing need for explainabilityand interpretation with more organizations seeking guidelines on how to determine what level ofexplainability to adopt and how much information to release about their models. The EU Act
7,
for example, imposes specific transparency requirements for different AI use cases classifiedaccording to its risk -based framework.
Recommendation  
It is crucial that the U.S Government tasks AI Actors to commit to transparency and responsible disclosure regarding AI systems. To this end, they should provide meaningful information, appropriate to the context, and consistent with the state of art in order to achieve the following: 
a.Foster a general understanding of AI systems, including their capabilities and limitations.
7 The EU Artificial Intelligence Act, ‘ Up-to-date developments and analyses of the EU AI Act ’ 
https://artificialintelligenceact.eu/  accessed 7th March 2025  


b.Make stakeholders aware of their interactions with AI systems, including in the
workplace.
c.Where feasible and useful, to provide plain and easy- to-understand information on the
sources of data/input, factors, processes and/or logic that led to the prediction, content,recommendation or decision, to enable those affected by an AI system to understand theoutput.
d.Provide information that enables those adversely affected by an AI system to challengeits output
8.
Organizations should be tasked on developing on roadmap for Explainability and Assurance of AI Model Outputs through building the right XAI team, establishing the right mindset, defining clear objectives, developing an action plan, measuring metrics and benchmarks, selecting or building appropriate tools , monitor and iterate
9. 
F.CYBERSECURITY, DATA PRIVACY, AND AI MODEL SECURITY
Fact s
The integration of AI systems into healthcare, finance, public service and even defense opens upthe possibility for vulnerability to cyber -attacks, third party manipulation and data breaches.
More so as AI in increasing gaining traction for use by individuals, privacy concerns continue toemerge as large- scale datasets containing sensitive information of users are used to train models
often times without their consent. Thus without efficient cyber security  measures, regulatory
oversight, and ethical AI frameworks , these risks could undermine public trust, economic
stability, and national security.
Exist ing privacy frameworks have gaps in protecting individuals in an AI -driven world. For 
example, there are challenges in proving that fundamental rights have been violated and/or harm produced in a digital context.  However, views among stakeholders continue to differ on the role 
of regulation in protecting privacy.  While some prefer more regulation, others advocate for a 
heavier reliance on business codes of conduct, technical tools, contract terms, and other devices 
8 OECD , ‘OECD Transparency and explainability (Principle 1.3) ’ https://oecd.ai/en/dashboards/ai- principles/P7  
accessed 12th March 2025  
9 Carlo Giovine, Roger Roberts with Mara Pometti and Medha Bankhwal ‘Building AI trust: The key role of 
explainability ’ (November 26, 2024 ,) https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/quantumblack/our -insights/building -
ai-trust-the-key-role-of-explainability   accessed 12th March 2025 


that are not legally binding. This often is referred to as a “soft law” approach.   Data scraping for 
generative AI and other purposes has led to numerous enforcement and litigation across jurisdictions, raising privacy, intellectual property litigation across jurisdictions, raising privacy, intellectual property and other concerns
10.  
About 40% of IT professionals in the U.S believe that cyber security  and privacy concerns are 
the main challenges related to AI11. Similarly, in 2024 about 39% of small companies 
experienced both security and data breaches in the U.S12. To maintain the integrity, security, and 
fairness of AI systems, the U.S. must develop robust policies  that address AI-specific cyber 
security  challenges, adversarial risks, and data privacy concerns while aligning with global best 
practices in AI governance.  
Recommendation  
The U.S should adopt the Key pillars to protect privacy and other fundamental rights in an AI -
driven world13.    
i. Inclusive dialogue
Since privacy and other fundamental rights impact everyone, the process for developing safeguards must involve the global community and diverse stakeholders, such as historically under- represented groups in the U.S.  The dialogue should also include experts from multiple 
disciplines to help ensure that technical and other profiles can widely operationalize legal and policy approaches in a compliant, ethical, and sustainable manner.    
ii. Common definitions
Even within the privacy and AI realms, a single term can have different meanings.   Technical 
and non- technical experts often have different lexicons.   The U.S should adopt common 
10 ArentFox Schiff , ‘litigation across jurisdictions, raising privacy, intellectual property and other concerns ’ (July 18, 
2023 ), https://www.jdsupra.com/legalnews/data -scraping -privacy -law-and-the-3354981/ accessed 12th March 2025  
11 Alexandra Borgeaud , ‘Main challenges expected or experienced due to artificial intelligence (AI) in the United 
States in 2024 ’(Statista  February 25, 2025), https://www.statista.com/statistics/1550573/us -top-ai-challenges -for-
companies -worldwide/ accessed  12th March 2025 
12 Statista, ‘Types of cyber incidents experienced by small companies in the United States  as of August 2024’ 
(March  11, 2025 ), https://www.statista.com/statistics/1455155/types -of-cyber -attacks -companies -in-the-us/  
accessed 12th March 2025  
13 Lee Tiedrich, Celine Caira, Yaniv Benhamou , ‘The AI data challenge: How do we protect privacy and other 
fundamental rights in an AI -driven world? ’ (October 19, 2023) , https://oecd.ai/en/wonk/the -ai-data-challenge -how-
do-we-protect -privacy -and-other -fundamental -rights -in-an-ai-driven -world?trk=public_post_comment -text accessd 
12th March 2025 


definitions on an international level and across sectors as this would help support inclusive 
dialogue on AI by bridging differences among jurisdictions and facilitating multi -disciplinary 
communications and collaborations.  More progress in creating uniform definitions will bolster 
common understandings and advance the U.S leadership.   
iii. Addressing data scraping
In Europe the EDPS was  launched a task force on ChatGPT14. The EDPB adopted a dispute
resolution decision on the basis of Art. 65 GDPR concerning a draft decision of the IE DPA onthe legality of data transfers to the United States by Meta Platforms Ireland Limited (Meta IE)for its Facebook service. The U.S government must adopt similar measures to continue toaddress data scraping and keep AI companies in check against data privacy breaches.
iv. Strengthen AI -specific Cybersecurity Protocols to protect against adversarial attacks by
setting up a National AI security Unit that will mandated to conduct regular AI security
audits and stress tests to identify vulnerabilities in government and private -sector AI
applications as well as respond to AI threats, detect ad provide defense mechanisms.
v. Enhance Supply Chain Security for AI Models and Hardware through implementation ofstrict security requirements  for AI supply chains, including chip manufacturing, cloud
computing services, and open- source AI tools  while also mandating federal AI vendors  to
comply with zero -trust security architectures and encryption standards
15.
vi. Develop National AI data privacy laws that align with global best Practices. The U.Sshould enact a federal AI data privacy law  similar to the European Union’s General Data
Protection Regulation (GDPR) as well as issue  compelling clear guidelines for AI data
collection, processing, and retention ; ensuring users have full control over their personal
data at every stage of the data lifecycle.
vii. Advance legislations in localizing sensitive data to be used exclusively within the U.Swhile non- sensitive data can be shared under a responsible and ethical data utility
14 European Data Protection Board, ‘ EDPB resolves dispute on transfers by Meta and creates task force on Chat 
GPT ’ (April 13, 2023) , https://www.edpb.europa.eu/news/news/2023/edpb -resolves -dispute -transfers -meta -and-
creates -task-force -chat-gpt_en accessed 12th March 2025  
15 NIST, ‘AI Risk Management Framework ’ (January 5, 2025), https://www.nist.gov/itl/ai -risk-management -
framework  accessed 12 th Ma rch 2025 


Agreement to be entered into by regional countries. This will help advance global AI 
development and halt underrepresentation in datasets and algorithmic bias.  
G.RESEARCH  AND DEVELOPMENT (R&D)
Fact s
Greater investments in artificial intelligence research and development are essential tomaintaining American leadership in AI. Throughout the 20th century, the federal governmentplayed a critical role in fueling technological innovation by funding pivotal basic research.Government funding was essential to developing the transistor, GPS, and the internet —
inventions that transformed the world economy. Yet over the past several decades, federalgovernment spending on R&D as a percentage of GDP declined from about 1.2% in 1976 toaround 0.7% in 2018
16. This is a worrisome trend as the federal government remains the main
funder of basic research. Government support again could be pivotal both in fostering new AIbreakthroughs and ensuring that the U.S. government has access to those breakthroughs. BeyondAI, overall R&D spending trends are troubling. Other countries are outpacing the United Stateswith faster growth of their national R&D budgets. Total U.S. national (public and private) R&Dexpenditures as a share of GDP have been mostly stagnant since 1996. China quadrupled itsR&D expenses as a share of GDP over the same time frame, and countries like Israel and  South
Korea also significantly ramped up spending
17.
The U.S. government remains the largest funder of basic research in the United States18. As 
during the 1960s and 1970s, government support again could be pivotal today both in fostering new breakthroughs and ensuring that the U.S. government has access to them. The federal government should prioritize a high T risk/high- reward basic science research area where private 
industry has little incentive to invest but that holds tremendous potential for valuable new knowledge. Breakthroughs in software, such as novel AI techniques that address the limitation of existing AI methods, and hardware, such as next generation semiconductor technologies and 
16 AAAS , ‘Federal R&D as a Percent of GDP’ ( June 2019 ), https://www.aaas.org/sites/default/files/2019 -
06/RDGDP.png  accessed 12 th March 2025  
17 World Bank , ‘Research and development expenditur e (percent of GDP), 1996 -2017’ (The World Bank, 2017 ), 
https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/GB.XPD.RSDV.GD.ZS . accessed 12 th March 2025 
18 Bipartisan Policy Center, Cementing American Artificial Intelligence Leadership: AI Research & Development 
(August 2020) available at https://bipartisanpolicy.org/download/?file=/wp -content/uploads/2020/08/BPC_RD -AI-
Paper_RV5.pdf  accessed 12 th March 2025 


superconducting artificial neurons, could be game changers that provide the United States with a 
continuing technological edge. Advances in AI can also further R&D of other fields because of its broad, interdisciplinary nature, while breakthroughs in areas like neuroscience can greatly advance AI development. 
Recommendation  
i. The National Science Foundation should work with science funding organizations in
allied countries to establish multilateral teams of AI researchers from the public andprivate sectors to promote talent development and foster partnerships on AI R&D.Furthermore, like academia, the government cannot compete with the private sector interms of salaries. However, like academia, it can provide workers with opportunities notseen in private R&D including making public policy, experimenting in novel fields thatare unrelated to the need to commercialize a technology and the opportunity to serve thepublic good. Additionally, the federal government needs tech experts to effectivelycreate, manage, and implement AI -related R&D grants. To bring more tech expertise into
the federal government, employment processes should be addressed through the creationof fellowship programs, inefficiencies in the hiring process, and enable tech experts tofloat between agencies.
ii. There needs to be international cooperation to advance AI research and development asan open democratic society with world- class universities, research institutes, and
corporations, the United States makes for an attractive partner in joint R&D .
iii. Overall AI R&D spending needs to increase significantly Support AI for Social GoodInitiatives particularly incentives for startups and non -profits developing AI for public
health, environmental sustainability, and accessibility as well as investments inexplainable AI (XAI), fairness, and AI ethics  to mitigate algorithmic bias and improve
decision-making transparency
iv. Require AI researchers to collaborate with experts in human rights, philosophy, andregulatory policy to ensure responsible development. The U.S. Department of State


released a Risk Management Profile for Artificial Intelligence and Human Rights19 as a 
practical guide for organizations including governments, the private sector, and civil 
society to design, develop, deploy, use, and govern AI in a manner consistent with respect for international human rights
20. 
v. Establish AI Ethics and Governance Research Centers in Universities.  Funds dedicated to
these centers should be tailored towards advancing research in AI policy, governance,and ethical AI development . Research conducted here should be interdisciplinary
comprising of ethics, law, and social sciences and should delve into most crucial areas ofAI’s impact on areas such as privacy, labour markets, democracy, and misinformation.
CONCLUSI ON 
Africa4Dev remains committed to championing responsible AI policy, ethical governance, and 
equitable technological advancements . As artificial intelligence continues to reshape economies, 
governance, and societal structures, it is imperative that AI policies prioritize inclusivity, transparency, and accountability. The U.S., as a global leader in AI development, must set a 
precedent for ethical AI deployment by ensuring that AI systems are safe, fair, and aligned with 
human rights principles . A comprehensive and forward- thinking AI Action Plan  will not only 
solidify the U.S.'s leadership but also foster global trust, innovation, and cross -border 
collaboration . 
Africa4Dev calls on governments, private sector leaders, researchers, and civil society  to work 
together in shaping an AI ecosystem that benefits all, safeguards democratic values, and promotes sustainable development . By adopting inclusive AI strategies and prioritizing diverse 
data representation, we can collectively ensure that AI serves as a force for good empowering communities, driving economic growth, and enhancing global cooperation. 
19 U.S Department of State Bureau of Cyberspace and Digital Policy , ‘Risk Management Profile for Artificial 
Intelligence and Human Rights ’ (July 25, 2024),  https://2021 -2025.state.gov/risk -management -profile -for-ai-and-
human- rights/  accessed 13th March 2025  
20 NIST, ‘AI Risk Management Framework, https://www.nist.gov/itl/ai -risk-management -framework  accessed  13th 
March 2025  


Africa Tech for Development Initiative - Africa4dev  
Majiuzu Daniel Moses  
Executive Director  
 “THIS DOCUMENT IS APPROVED FOR PUBLIC DISSEMINATION . THE DOCUMENT CONTAINS NO BUSINESS -PROPRIETARY 
OR CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION . DOCUMENT CONTENTS MAY BE REUSED BY THE GOVERNMENT IN DEVELOPING THE 
AI ACTION PLAN AND ASSOCIATED DOCUMENTS WITHOUT ATTRIBUTION .” 


