Response to  
Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Agency 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National 
Coordination Office (NCO), National Science Foundation. 
Authored by 
Dr. William Aderholdt  
Executive Director and Co-Founder 
Grand Farm Research and Education Initiative  
This docume nt is approved for public dissemination 


Why Agriculture?  
United States Agriculture is poised to be the global leader in food production through the 
implementation of agriculture technology (“AgTech”) and artificial intelligence. The agriculture 
industry is considered to be top industry to be impacted by artificial intelligence in 2025, and is 
highly strategic to the United State’s national security  (Purnama & Sejati, 2023; Spanaki et al., 
2022). Food security is often labeled as national security. Global population is expected to 
increase to nearly 10 Billion people by the year 2050, that is a 30% increase ( Van et al., 2021). 
To support this population growth, it is expected the agriculture industry will need to produce 
nearly 100% more food. 
During a presentation by John Deere’s (Headquarters in Moline, IL) Chief Technology 
Office on February 27th at Grand Farm’s Innovation Campus in Casselton, North Dakota – the 
potential and impact of artificial intelligence was woven throughout the keynote. Advancements in AI have produced exponential increases in capabilities of intelligent machinery. The federal 
government has the potential for targeted investments, grants, and collaborations for this potential to be realized.  
The Challenge of Artificial Intelligence in Agriculture  
Grand Farm has been working with thought leaders and executives for America’s largest 
agriculture and technology corporations, and research leaders from around the country to understand the role of the United States Government (through the United States Department of 
Agriculture) in accelerating artificial intelligence research and development and the adoption of 
these tools into the agriculture industry. Through these interviews and focus groups, several 
themes have emerged:  
1.Aligning AI innovation with a gricultural stakeholders
2. Lowering barriers to AI adoption in a griculture
3.Creating a secure, accessible, and interoperable a gricultural data ecosystem
4. Identifying challenges to a ddress that are relevant to United States farmers
Agriculture  has significant challenges to implementing artificial intelligence innovations.
First, agriculture technology is reliant on near- peer innovation. To implement artificial 
intelligence, you need infrastructure  for both last -mile and last -acre connectivity, the sensors that 
can collect data on the field and crops, data centers for cloud computing, and algorithms to produce decisions with that data that are actionable for farmers. Each of these cannot exist 
witho ut the other. Second, agriculture is uniquely challenged by the uniqueness of each 
individual farm. Artificial intelligence relies on patterns to create models, and immense amounts of data to improve the accuracy of those models. Each farm has different soil conditions, 
weather, crops they grow, and how the business of farming is conducted. Both of these 
challenges will require public -private collaboration to overcome. 


The Solution:  
Stakeholder engagement is immensely important in defining key opportunities and 
challenges that artificial intelligence can solve. Agriculture is unique in that each geography (and 
each farm) have unique perspectives on what is needed. The challenges of th e upper- midwestern 
United State grower are different than those of the south -east. This will need to be regularly 
conducted as the challenges and opportunities also regularly change year-over- year.  
Over the past several years, innovation ecosystems have seen substantial investments 
from the federal government. This has achieved amazing results in removing barriers, increasing acceleration of these technologies, and driving adoption into American soci ety. This is an area to 
double-down, finding key ecosystem facilitators to work on these immense challenges and driving forward successful solutions. 
Similar to ecosystems, research and development test beds have also seen investment. As 
the challenges of technology development and adoption continue to get more complex, these test 
beds provide a rapid way to demonstrate, research, develop, and validate technology. By having 
test beds intentionally designed for these activities, the cost on startups and private industry to 
develop these technologies dramatically decreases.  
Grand Farm is uniquely positioned to engage in both ecosystem building and test bed 
activities. As a core member of the NSF FARMS: North Dakota Advanced Agriculture 
Technology Engine , we have been able to grow our global innovation ecosystem to over 2,500 
organizations. These organizations have been mobilized to solve challenges and opportunities unique to United States agriculture. Through this effort Grand Farm has also engaged with 
growers and commodity leaders in defining opportunities and challenges to be solved by this global ecosystem through careful and thoughtful stakeholder analysis. As a consortium member 
of Economic Development Administration’s Technology Hubs, Grand Farm has developed a test 
bed at Grand Farm’s Innovation Campus to provide an environment for rapid prototyping, 
testing, and validation of technology. As a partner of t he United States Department of 
Agriculture’s Agricultural Research Service, we have contributed to the artificial intelligence strategy of USDA.   Through partnerships with both North Dakota State University and 
University of Georgia, Grand Farm has been ab le to work on regional opportunities and 
challenges unique to their growers – with expansions planned into other areas of the country in 2025 and 2026. 
We have until 2050 to double our food production globally. The United States is and will 
remain the leader in this effort with intentional investments into artificial intelligence. We look 
forward to working with the National Science Foundation to success fully meeting this challenge 
head -on. 


References:  
Purnama, S., & Sejati, W. (2023). Internet of things, big data, and artificial intelligence in the 
food and agriculture sector. International Transactions on Artificial Intelligence , 1(2), 
156-174.
Spanaki, K., Sivarajah, U., Fakhimi, M., Despoudi, S., & Irani, Z. (2022). Disruptive 
technologies in agricultural operations: A systematic review of AI- driven AgriTech 
research.  Annals of Operations Research, 308(1), 491-524. 
Van Dijk, M., Morley, T., Rau, M. L., & Saghai, Y . (2021). A meta-analysis of projected global 
food demand and population at risk of hunger for the period 2010–2050. Nature 
Food, 2(7), 494-501. 


