 
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. 
Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attributi on. 
 
Copyright © 202 5 AHIMA®. All rights reserved. Confidential and proprietary.  1 February 27, 2025  
 
Kirk Dohne , JD 
National Coordination Office (NCO)  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development  (NITRD)  
National Science Foundation  (NSF)  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
 
Dear Acting Director Dohne,  
 
On behalf of the  American Health Information Management Association (AHIMA) and its member s, we 
are writing in response to the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development 
(NITRD) Request for Information (RF I) on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
published in the February 6, 2025 Federal Register  (2025-02305).  
 
AHIMA is a global nonprofit association of health information (HI) professionals. AHIMA represents 
professionals who work with health data for more than one billion patient visits each year. The AHIMA 
mission of empowering people to impact health drives ou r members and credentialed HI professionals to 
ensure that health information is accurate, complete, and available to patients and clinicians. Our 
leaders work at the intersection of healthcare, technology, and business, and are found in data integrity 
and information privacy job functions worldwide.  
 
The HI profession is energized by the innovations  and opportunities  AI can bring to healthcare. Through 
proper implementation , the use of AI can assist HI professionals in completing burdensome  tasks – such 
as claims processing  – allowing them to focus on more advanced  work within their field. A robust policy 
plan will need to be  implemented  if the American healthcare system is to take full advantage of 
everything AI has to offer . Such a plan must provide the AI sector with guardrails to focus their efforts to 
ensure products brought to market and implemented are actively improving the quality of healthcare 
provided  and/or assist with improving health outcomes .  
 
AHIMA recommends any plan related to the regulation and implementation of AI should:  
• Ensure robust regulatory guidelines centered on fairness, accuracy, security, and transparency are 
developed for both clinical and non-clinical AI; 
• Structure regulatory frameworks with sufficient flexibility to allow for continued AI development 
and innovation;  
• Focus on the intended use and desired outcome of the AI when determining the efficacy of the 
technology;  
• Prioritize end -users’ input – including HI professionals – throughout the development and real -
world testing of AI technology;  


This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. 
Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attributi on. 
Copyright © 202 5 AHIMA®. All rights reserved. Confidential and proprietary.  2 •Develop a n updated set of privacy and security policies to better encapsulate new challenges and
needs posed by the use of AI in healthcare settings; and
•Maintain a focus on  reducing unintended outputs and unplanned biases within AI models to
ensure outputs remain stable and can be utilized across multiple settings with limited
maintenance .
AHIMA believes the above recommendations wil l create an environment of trusted AI use and 
implementatio n allowing those who interact with healthcare t o have confidence in the technology 
itself. A num ber of challenges exist in the use of AI today and the existing policy framework 
surrounding its implementation. As an action plan on how to tackle AI on a broad scale is developed, 
we encourage NITRD to address both the recommendations above and the nee d for those in 
healthcare t o have an avenue to engage in the developm ent of standards and best practices for AI. 
Maintaining strong private-public sector partnerships relating to the developm ent and use of AI can 
ensure the desired polic y outcomes are realized.   
To date, challenges in healthcare technology have continue d regardless of the modality of technology 
used. It is important that thes e challenges are accounted for in the developm ent and implementation 
of AI to maximize its potenti al as an asset in healthcare . Today, while many agencies within the 
Executive Branc h lack the statutor y  authority to regulate AI the proposed polic y actions abov e can 
begin to be implemented while Congress works to create an AI statutory framework. As NITRD works 
to create an AI strategic plan, AHIMA and its membership stand ready to assist in creating a trusted AI 
regulatory framework .  
The advent of AI will assist the HI profession by alleviating staff burnout, reducing administrative 
burden, and improving compliance activities. While the implementati on of AI is not without 
challenges, AHIMA believes a regulatory plan tha t utilizes commonsense polic y guardrails can ensure 
that AI becomes another piece of trusted, safe healthcare technolog y. We look forwar d to continued 
collaboration i n the developm ent of this action plan. If you have any questions related to our letter or 
would like to discuss opportunities for the HI profess ion to be involved in the developm ent of AI policy 
moving forward, please contact AHIMA Senior Director of Regulatory and International Affairs, 
Andrew Tomlinson.  
Sincerely, 
Lauren Riplinger, JD  
Chief Public Policy and Impact Officer  


