March 14, 2025 
VIA EMAI L 
AI Ac tion Plan  
Attn: Faisal D’Souza  
NCO 
2415 Eisenhower Ave Alexandria, VA 22314 
Re: Execu tive Order 14179: Artificial Intelligence Action Plan  
Dear Mr. D’Souza:  
On behalf of the AI Coalition for Data Integrity I am writing in response to the Request for 
Information (RFI ), that seeks responses to  Executive Order 14179, regarding the Development of 
the Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (“Plan”).1 
I. Introduction
President Trump signed Executive Order 14179 (Removing Barriers to American
Leadership in Artificial Intelligence) on January 23, 2025. The Order directs the development of an AI Action plan to “advance America’s AI leadership.” The Order follows President Trump’s previous Executive Order revoking the Biden- Harris AI Executive Order 14110, which imposed 
“burdensome requirements restricting private sector AI development and deployment.”  One 
“burdensome requirement” in AI development and deployment is the uncertainty surrounding the 
1 This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan 
and associated documents without attribution.  


transparency, attribution, and licensing of AI training data sets. Promoting legal certainty through 
transparency of AI training data, mandating as appropriate AI output attribution and building strong AI training data licensing frameworks , best practices  and agreements will advance U .S. AI 
leadership and growth. 
II. Introduction to the AI Coalition for Data IntegrityThe AI Coalition for Data Integrity is a  multi-stakeholder, cross -industry organization
committed to promoting legal and ethical AI development by advocating for transparency, proper 
attribution , and fair remuneration in AI. These three pillars , Transparency,  Attribution , and 
Licensing  help establish a robust AI ecosystem ensur ing innovation and growth in U.S. AI 
leadership . 
The coalition comprises AI developers, technology companies, content creators, academic 
researchers, trade associations, guilds, unions, and individuals who recognize that a legal and 
ethical  AI data training landscape fosters trust, enhances the reliability and value of AI outputs, 
and strengthens the competitive position of American AI companies in the global market.  
III. Transparency, Attribution , and Licensing  Enhance U.S. AI Innovation and
Leadership
Far from stifling AI development, mandating transparency, requiring attribution , and
promoting l icensing  enhance AI development because they eliminate legal uncertainty, encourage 
high quality data- sharing, and promote AI deployment. Implementing these principles ensures that 
AI-driven innovation benefits all stakeholders  — including developers, data providers, content 
creators and the public. 


A.Reducing Legal Disputes and Eliminating Lawsuits
The explosion of litigation over unauthorized data scraping, antitrust claims , copyright 
violations, and misuse of others’ proprietary information could be addressed, at least in part, by 
the Executive Branch clearly setting out the need for transparency, attribution and use of licensed 
data. High- profile lawsuits have been filed against AI developers for ingesting other entities’ 
content (including copyrighted content)  without authorization.2 Policymakers should promote 
clear standards for transparency and attribution, as well as improve incentives for respecting copyright. In doing so, the U.S. can significantly reduce the likelihood of protracted legal battles, 
thereby creating a stable regulatory environment for AI development. 
B.Providing Legal Certainty for AI Development
The current AI training data use landscape  has created uncertainty  among AI companies 
and investors, including those building AI tools through licensed data sets , as well as damaging 
copyright holders, content creators , and companies that disseminate business and professional data 
across the internet . By adopting requirements for transparency in AI training data, attribution to 
original creators, and ensuring fair remuneration and licensing practices, the U.S. will  provide 
legal clarity  and make it easier for all AI developers to operate confidently without fear of future 
legal repercussions and consequences. 
2See BakerHostetler, Case Tracker: Artificial Intelligence, Copyrights, and Class Actions , BAKERHOSTETLER, 
https://www.bakerlaw.com/services/artificial- intelligence -ai/case- tracker -artificial- intelligence -copyrights -and-
class -actions/ (last visited Mar. 6, 2025).  


C.Encouraging the Use of High-Quality, Licensed Data
The U.S. AI industry will benefit from increased access to high -quality data if AI 
developers adhere to licensing and proper attribution frameworks.3 If developers are incentivized 
to work with authorized datasets rather than relying on unauthorized scraping of the internet, it 
will lead to better -trained models, fewer biases, and more accurate AI outputs. Companies that 
comply with these best practice s will have a competitive advantage globally, as they will deploy 
AI models that are legally compliant, more reliable, and less prone to legal challenges.  
D.Protecting U.S. AI Companies from Unauthorized Data Ingestion by Non -U.S.
Actors
A lac k of strong protections around AI data usage puts U.S. AI companies at a disadvantage 
in all market s. Foreign competitors  (such as DeepSeek)  exploit unregulated data scraping to 
develop AI models while U.S. companies face lawsuits and regulatory challenges. By 
implementing  national standards for transparency, attribution , and legitimate use s/licensing , the 
U.S. will ensure a level playing field, protecting domestic AI companies and content creators from 
unfair competition  and national security risks . These methods will provide the competitive  
advantages of trustworthy AI that’s both fairly produced and fit for purpose.  
3 See Transparenc y Coalition, Financial Times says: AI Developers Must Legally License Training Data, 
TRANSPARENCY COALITION , https://www.transparencycoalition.ai/news/financial- times -says-ai-developers -must -
legally -licensing -training -data (last visited Mar. 7, 2025) (“ The use of illegally pirated data to train the world’s most 
powerful AI systems is an ongoing breach of the most basic tenet of property law: What’s mine is mine and  may not 
be used without my permission. ”). 


E.Enhancing AI Output Safety and Trustworthiness
Transparent AI development enhances trust among users, regulators, and stakeholders. 
When AI systems disclose the origins of their training data and acknowledge contributions from 
original data creators, they generate more reliable and ethically sound outputs. Transparency is also a crucial safeguard against AI models inadvertently propagating misinformation or bias. Establishing industry- wide best practices and legal requirements for training data transparency 
position the U.S. as a leader in responsible AI development. 
IV. Mandating Transparency, Attribution , and Licensing  Does Not Burden U.S. AI
Interest s
The conc ern over “burdensome requirements” appears to assume  that any form of
regulation hinders AI development  and that no 
“burdensome requirements” already exist .  Neither is true.  In the absence of a working framework 
for transparency, attribution, and licensing, AI “burdens” already exist. For example,  the European 
Union’s AI Act , as well as the multiple costly litigations disputes (including discovery fights) in 
U.S. courts  can be characterized as “burdensome.”4 Instead transparency, attribution and licensing 
reduce actual burdens.  
4 See High -level summary of the AI Act , EU Artificial Intelligence Act (Feb. 27, 2024), 
https://artificialintelligenceact.eu/high -level -summary/ ; The Intercept Media, Inc. v. OpenAI, Inc. , No. 24 -CV-1515 
(JSR), 2025 WL 556019, at *10 (S.D.N.Y. Feb. 20, 2025)  (holding that the 1202(b)(3) distribution claim against 
OpenAI  was dismissed  but the1202(b)(1) claim  was allowed  to proceed); Dan Jasnow, SDNY Order Renews 
Possibility of Digital Millennium Copyright Act Legal Recourse for News Publishers, NAT’L L. REV., 
https://natlawreview.com/article/sdny -order -renews -possibility -digital- millenium -copyright -act-legal -recourse- news 
(last visited Mar. 6, 2025)  (“Perhaps the most significant consequence of the court’s decision to allow the 1202(b)(1) 
claim to proceed is that OpenAI could be compelled to begin discovery and provide information to The Intercept about its datasets and training process .”). 


A.Addressing the "Burdensome Requirement" Concern
The unsettled  legal reality has  already created de facto burdens  upon AI growth due to 
litigation costs  and legal exposure . Implementing, confirming, and promoting U.S.  standard s will 
reduce uncertainty and provide AI companies (of all types) with a more s tructured legal ecosystem, 
rather  than leaving them exposed to expensive and unpredictable legal battles.  
B.Implementing  Unified U.S. Standards Help  Prevent Fragmentation
If the U.S. fails to implement  a minimum, cohesive AI training data use framework, 
different U.S. states or different industries will develop their own conflicting regulations, leading 
to a fractured regulatory environment. A unified approach would prevent regulatory inconsistencies an d ensure that AI companies operating in the U.S. adhere to a well -defined 
standard  that will drive growth globally. This should be achieved through minimum federal 
requirements rather than full AI legal regulatory preemption, allowing states to build upon baseline protections while ensuring a consistent foundation across the country. 
C.Strengthening the U.S. AI Industry for Global Competitiveness
By adopting these best practices now, the U.S. is  setting the standard for AI governance 
worldwide. Countries that lack strong AI regulations may see increased legal and ethical challenges down the line, while the U.S. can position itself as a leader in legal and ethical AI, using quality data, fostering trust from both domestic and international stakeholders.
5 
5 See Peter Gratton, How More Accessible AI Could Revolutionize Wall Street Trading, INVESTOPEDIA , 
https://www.investopedia.com/open- source -ai-wall- street -8786858 (last visited Mar. 7, 2025) (“ Former Google 
CEO Eric Schmidt has warned that the U.S. and Europe need to focus more on building open- source AI models or 
risk losing ground to China on this front.  This suggests that the future of financial AI may depend not just on 
technical capabilitie s, but on broader strategic decisions about how trading technology is developed and shared. ”). 


V. Recommended Standards
To ensure that the AI Action Plan strengthens, rather than weakens, American AI
leadership, we urge the inclusion of the following key standards:  
A.Transparency
AI developers must disclose training data sources and methodologies to promote 
accountability , trust , and ensure high- quality data . AI-generated content should be clearly labeled 
to differentiate it from human -created work, preventing misinformation and ensuring clarity in 
public and commercial use. Additionally, model decision- making processes should be 
documented, allowing oversight in high- impact areas such as healthcare, finance, and law 
enforcement.   AI developers and those operating on their behalf must disclose the identity and 
purpose of the “bots” they use to crawl and scrape internet content, in a manner that is recognizable and timely for web operators and content owners on the internet.   
B.Attribution
AI systems output should acknowledge origination and ensure proper attribution through 
structured agreements, best practices , and U.S. c opyright law. These methods should include clear 
crediting mechanisms to prevent unauthorized use , ensure fair recognition of contributors , and 
avoid abusive data scraping .  Copyright holders must retain legal control over how their work  is 
used in AI training, helping to establish legal  data practices and incentivize high -quality data 
contributions. 


C.Legitimate Use – Establishing Robust Data Markets
Data contributors across all forms of data should receive fair compensation for the use of 
their data in AI models.   AI developers should participate in structured data licensing frameworks 
to ensure compliance.  Robust data marketplaces should be encouraged to foster innovation while 
respecting intellectual property rights , privacy rights, business rights, and protecting content 
creators and innovation throughout the U.S. 
VI. Conclusion
Executive Order 14179 seeks to advance U.S. AI leadership —AI training data
transparency, attribution , and licensing  are essential components of a thriving AI ecosystem that 
fosters innovation while protecting intellectual property and consumer trust. 
We strongly urge policymakers to recognize the benefits of these foundational principles 
and integrate them into the AI Action Plan. By doing so, the U.S. can drive AI progress while ensuring that its development remains ethical, legally sound, and globall y competitive.  
Sincerely,  
  Tod Cohen  
AI Coalition for Data Integrity 


