PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1hx8-8vje
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7484
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Sean Elgin
Em ail:  
General Comment
To Whom  It May Concern,
What Large Language Model developm ent com panies refer to as "Artificial Intelligence" is nothing of the sort. It needs to be understood
that these system s are black-boxed pattern-m atching algorithm s aim ed at identifying the patterns which appear com m only in training data
and reproducing those patterns or approxim ations thereof.
These system s are lim ited by the extent of their training data. There exists no "AI" system  which can produce functional results in the
absence of hum an-generated m aterial; when access to hum an-generated m aterial is revoked, the abilities of the "AI" dim inish rapidly with
attem pts to train recursively. Each and every result of "AI" system s is derived from  som e aspect of the training m aterial, and to render
hum an labor m ere grist for the m ill fundam entally disconnects us from  our creative products. In so doing, generating from  the sum  total of
hum an knowledge an eternal rem ix album  that never truly steps outside of that which cam e before while displacing artists who m ay
otherwise have been able to reach such a lofty height.
"AI" is fundam entally incapable of com prehension, of contextualization, and of discernm ent - it only m atters what output creates a
response to the prom pt that m ost closely resem bles those patterns observed in its training data. This can even allow a clever actor to
extract fragm ents of that training data with careful prom pting, as the m achine will read the prom pt and m atch a response without
awareness of what it is doing or why it is doing it. Additionally, this lack of context or com prehension allows for the production of
statem ents, claim s, or conclusions which range from  the nonsensical to the outright dangerous. These tools cannot be ethically applied
without heavy oversight at the bare m inim um . Not even the regulations presently in place are sufficient, though they are necessary.
Setting aside the fact that "AI" does not perform  such tasks or bear the qualities of intelligence as claim ed by its proponents, the econom ic
purpose of "AI" is sim ple and disastrous to the Am erican people. As used today, "AI" functions to grant wealth access to som e
approxim ation of otherwise irreplicable skill, while denying skilled personnel access to wealth. Large corporations are eager and ready to
replace large swathes of the workforce with "AI" system s, and are willing to accept the dram atic loss of actual function this will incur, if
only it would rid them  of having to pay for actual em ployees. The im pact this will have on Am erica's econom y barely needs saying, but for
the sake of this com m ent: this country will never fully recover from  allowing these excesses to fester.
I im plore those who read this docum ent to decline any and all requests by com panies building Large Language Model "AI" products to
access our data. If they desire to use all of the data which they can possibly access to im prove their product, they are fully capable of
purchasing rights from  the copyright holders as required of any ethical creative enterprise - and they are m ore than wealthy enough to do
so.
This docum ent m ay be publicly dissem inated. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation. Docum ent
contents m ay be used by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.
Consent is not given for the use of this docum ent to train "AI" m odels or system s which approxim ate their functionality.
Thank you for your tim e.


