PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zdx7-tfko
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5785
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Maria Rosado   
Email: 
General Comment
Good evening—
I am  a sm all business owner and artist, and generative AI has becom e a m ajor problem  for m yself, m y fam ily, and m y com m unity. For
years, m yself and m y fellow creators have worked hard to develops the skills and knowledge to run our businesses, and we have never
been shy about helping and teaching others how to do the sam e. Until recently, we were able to carve out a sm all, m anageable existence
and support our fam ilies through our work. We have been happy to share our work with the world through the m agic of the internet, and
even grown our businesses that way. 
Generative AI technology, and the corporations that own it, have stolen, destroyed, and exploited the fruits of our labor without our
consent, and now are claim ing that the only way to further ‘Am erican innovation’ is to roll over and let them  take m ore. I say that if their
product is worthless without theft, then it is not worth anything at all.
If you truly want to protect Am erican innovation, you would protect Am erican creators. Do not create new copyright exem ptions that
allow Big Tech com panies to exploit and steal from  creators and everyday Am ericans without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency.
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech com panies, but rather on ensuring a fair
m arketplace with com petition, and I have three steps below working towards that: 
First, the governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, so that we can decide when and where
our work is used by AI system s.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is
preserved. Our work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just
Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their
training datasets, and label what content is AI generated. 
I am  not anti-technology or anti-AI. I have done m y research on the argum ents for both sides, and the technology used by these
com panies. I am  im pressed by the capabilities of these AI system s, and see they can be incredibly useful for m any things. But we should
not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Am ericans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law. 
Thank you for the opportunity to com m ent on these im portant issues, and m ay god guide you on your decision.


