PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 88-qbcs-zm wr
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1313
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Rutgers University
General Comment
Dear Planning Com m ittee,
Com m ents and recom m endations from  Rutgers University can be found in the attached docum ent. We greatly appreciate the opportunity
to provide feedback and would be glad to engage in further discussion if needed.
Thank you,
Michele Norin 
Sr. Vice President & Chief Inform ation Officer
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Attachments
Com m ents on AI Action Plan from  Rutgers University


1 Response to Request for Information: 
Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
Submitted by Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey 
March 7, 2025 


2 Overview  
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, recommends the following priorities for the 
development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan: 
•Advance core AI research to ensure America is at the forefront of AI innovation
•Maximize AI’s impact by applying AI to national priority areas, such as healthcare
•Enhance education and workforce development in AI to ensure Americancompetitiveness and dominance
•Foster alliances between industry, government, and academia for national AI leadership
•Develop new infrastructure for data, computing, and manufacturing to secure America’s
position in AI innovation
Advancing Core AI Innovation  to Solidify America’s  AI 
Leadership  
While the current generation of AI technologies has demonstrated many remarkable 
achievements, there are many notable hurdles on the horizon for continuing the development of 
AI technologies that must be addressed through a coordinated national policy: 
•Improving Energy/Power Efficiency: Implementing large-scale AI models, such as LargeLanguage Models (LLMs), consumes large amounts of energy that will eventually burden
U.S. power grid infrastructure.
•Advancing AI Primitives: Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) and Generative AIalgorithms that use transformer-based methods have drawbacks in efficiency, scalability,
generalizability, and adaptability that need to be addressed by researching alternative
algorithm designs.
•Broadening Data and Knowledge Encoding: AI models are intrinsically dependent ontheir input data and internal representations of knowledge. Current AI models do not
leverage the full variety of data sources nor efficiently represent knowledge gained from
such data.
•Developing Smarter AI: Current AI algorithm approaches are adept at pattern matchingand basic logic inferences, but they cannot perform more complex logic, such as
abductive reasoning and hypothesis generation, when presented with partial data or
complex-structured data.
•AI that Continuously Learns: Large-scale AI models involve frequent full-scale retrainingon large input data, which can lead to outdated algorithms and potentially irrelevant or
incorrect results.
•Trustworthy and Reliable AI: Many AI algorithms can be manipulated by adversarialinformation, and thus AI must be developed for mission-critical environments so that AI-
based solutions are robust and resilient to errors, biases, and intentional hacking.
To address the above needs for advancing AI innovation in the U.S., Rutgers recommends the 
following actions as part of the nation’s AI policy: 
•Develop National Technology/Innovation Competitions: The nation should hostcompetitions with specific technology objectives (e.g., minimizing computation usage on


3 benchmarks), with prizes promoting continued development and fostering 
commercialization.   
•Expand SBIR/STTR Program Scope: Government funding agencies should evolve theSmall Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer
(STTR) program model for AI innovation by encouraging public-private partnerships,
providing more funding stages, streamlining the funding process, and removing hurdles
between prototype and market deployment.
•Create National Prototype Foundries: The nation should create national chip foundriesthat facilitate onshore development of new AI hardware, such as chips that perform
specialized AI computations for targeted applications.
•Expand National Funding for Research Partnerships: The U.S. should expand federalallocations to drive AI innovation by positioning universities to collaborate with applied
research partners that support economic growth.
•Encourage Innovation Through Collaboration by Establishing National Centers: TheU.S. needs to emphasize larger, team-based innovation by establishing national centers
that bring together the best from government, academia, and industry to spur paradigm-
shifting research.
•Enhance Venture Capital Investments in AI Entrepreneurship:  The U.S. leads when it
creates companies that alter the status quo of the technology landscape, and thus the
private sector must be encouraged to invest in more U.S.-based AI startups.
Maximizing Impact by Applying AI to National Priorities  
Artificial intelligence delivers the greatest value to the U.S. when solving critical societal 
challenges. Our university recommends a federal policy framework that prioritizes AI 
applications in high-impact areas where AI can enhance national security, economic 
competitiveness, and public well-being. Healthcare is a prime example, where AI can improve 
patient outcomes, reduce costs, and accelerate medical innovation, establishing the U.S. as a 
leader in this field. 
The following policy actions apply across multiple sectors a nd are detailed elsewhere in this 
document. This section highlights how these actions can unlock AI’s full potential in healthcare 
as an example of impact—showcasing how targeted federal investment and policy support can 
accelerate AI-driven breakthroughs, enhance patient outcomes, and position the U.S. as the global leader in AI-powered medicine. 
Establish Dedicated Federal Funding for Applied AI Research 
•Advanced Methods: Invest in next-generation AI methodologies, such as multimodal
transformers and federated learning, to enhance AI’s predictive capabilities and decisionsupport capacity, which will revolutionize medical practices through earlier intervention.
•Explainability: Establish dedicated federal funding to develop advanced methods fortransparent, interpretable AI that increases clinical trust and expands real-worlddeployment. This requires supporting interdisciplinary research integrating the most
advanced techniques with expert domain knowledge.


4 •Validation: Fund pilot programs to evaluate AI-driven medical solutions under real-world
conditions, allowing iterative improvements based on feedback.
•Computing Infrastructure: Ensure federally funded access to high-performancecomputing (HPC) resources, including GPUs and specialized AI accelerators, to support
the development, training, and validation of complex AI models in healthcare. One
promising option might be expanding the NSF ACCESS program and having other
agencies replicate the program.
Example: AI-powered precision medicine requires large, broadly representative datasets and 
high-performance computing resources to train complex models for personalized diagnosis and treatment recommendations. 
Expand Data Access & Interoperability for AI-Driven Applications 
•Data Access: Expand the focus on creating data programs and centers to improve 
the
accuracy and reliability of AI training datasets.
•Interoperability and Standardization: Support federal initiatives for health data
interoperability (Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources, Observational MedicalOutcomes Partnership) to ensure AI models can integrate with  electronic health records
(EHRs), genomic databases, and clinical decision-support tools.
Example: AI-
powered predictive healthcare models require access to secure, standardized 
data from multiple sources to generate accurate, real-time risk assessments for complex, 
chronic conditions like cardiovascular disease. Access to robust genomic, clinical, and real-
world data ensures AI can accurately predict and optimize across populations. 
Establish Adaptive Regulatory Pathways to Accelerate AI Deployment 
•Streamlined AI Approval Processes: Develop adaptive, risk-tiered FDA pathways for AI-driven biomedical applications, diagnostics, and therapeutics, ensuring that regulatory
processes match the pace of AI innovation.
•AI Testbeds and Regulatory Sandboxes: Establish federal AI testing environments where
healthcare AI solutions can be piloted, refined, and validated under controlled conditions
before broad adoption.
Example: AI-driven robotic-assisted surgery requires continuous regulatory adaptation as 
new AI models evolve to improve surgical precision, real-time decision support, and patient 
safety. 
Expand Public-Private Partnerships for AI Initiatives 
•Research Collaboration: Strengthen partnerships with universities and healthcare
systems to accelerate AI development, validation, and clinical deployment.


   
 
 5 • AI Workforce Training and Education: Establish federally supported AI training 
programs to equip clinicians, researchers, and regulatory professionals with the 
knowledge to leverage AI in medicine effectively. 
 Example: AI-driven automation in healthcare administration can reduce provider burnout by 
handling repetitive documentation tasks, allowing clinicians to focus on high-value patient 
care. 
 
Prioritizing High-Impact Healthcare  Federal investment in AI should prioritize high-impact medical areas with strong potential for 
cost savings, improved patient outcomes, and broader technological applications: 
• Neurodegenerative Diseases (Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s): Support AI-driven early 
detection and disease modeling to slow their progression and reduce long-term care costs, 
which are projected to reach $16.9 trillion globally by 2050. 
• Maternal-Fetal Medicine and Neonatal Care: Support AI-powered risk prediction tools to reduce maternal and infant mortality rates and improve long-term population health 
outcomes. 
• Oncology: Support AI-driven detection, treatment planning, and precision medicine to increase survival rates.  
• Cardiovascular and Metabolic Disorders: Support AI prediction, enabling early intervention strategies that reduce healthcare costs. 
• Infectious Disease and Public Health: Support AI-powered public health initiatives for real-time disease tracking and targeted intervention strategies, strengthening national preparedness and response. 
• Mental Health Diagnosis and Treatment: Support initiatives to use AI to identify mental health challenges revealed in different kinds of data (text, behavior) and to prepare professionals to identify and deliver effective therapeutic interventions. 
 
Scaling AI Innovation Across Sectors 
 
Federal investment in AI should extend beyond healthcare to maximize cross-sector economic 
and national security benefits: 
• National Security: AI-powered threat detection, cybersecurity automation, and military logistics optimization will enhance defense readiness. 
• Infrastructure Resilience: AI can predict failures in critical infrastructure, optimize energy grids, and improve disaster response planning. 
• Environmental Sustainability: AI-driven climate modeling, emissions monitoring, and resource optimization will support federal sustainability initiatives. 
• Education and Workforce Development: AI-powered adaptive learning and workforce training models can prepare the next generation for an AI-driven economy. 
 
 


6 Call to Action: The Need for Federal AI Investment
These strategic investments in applied AI will establish the U.S. as a global leader in explainable, 
high-impact AI and set the standard for innovation across sectors. In healthcare, AI will 
accelerate medical breakthroughs, enhance economic competitiveness, and drive the future of 
AI-powered medicine. By prioritizing advanced, mindful AI research and deployment, federal 
policy can transform patient care, fuel industry growth, and propel  sustainable economic 
advancements. 
Enhanc ing AI Education and Workforce Development  to 
Sustain U.S. Dominance 
The existing workforce is too small to meet the demand for technically skilled workers to 
develop and deploy the new AI and machine learning (ML) solutions that will ensure American 
leadership in these frontier areas. These necessary advancements in AI—and towards AGI—
require basic research, often with collaboration among core AI disciplines, including computer 
science, statistics, applied math, and engineering. Collaboration with other application domains  
is also needed, especially those dealing with human intelligence and behavior.  
The lack of computer science education in the U.S., particularly in high schools and 
undergraduate programs, hinders AI talent development. Policies are needed to ensure 
partnerships across industries. Universities should be supported to develop a highly skilled and 
competitive American workforce that will lead in the innovation and expansion of data science 
solutions. Leveraging the extension of these partnerships to local communities will expand the 
use and benefit of new data science solutions to local municipalities throughout the country. 
We recommend the following policy actions: 
•Incentivize the integration of understanding and use of AI throughout the workforce
pipeline from K-12 to community college education programs.
•Incentivize universities to integrate AI education and training into undergraduateeducational programs, ranging from English and the arts to STEM to professional
programs (e.g., business).
•Incentivize universities to provide AI training through continuing education andextension programming to working professionals and community members, supporting a
competitive American workforce that will effectively integrate the use of AI.
•Incentivize scholarships and internships for top students to pursue AI R&D to work withindustry to develop the next generations of AI technology.
•Establish educational programs across the country that emphasize innovation andentrepreneurship to ensure that students have skills aligned with economic needs and
solving emerging problems.


7 Strengthening  Academic/Industry Collaboration to Foster AI 
Leadership  
Innovation in AI is accelerating rapidly across the entire ecosystem of academia, national labs, 
large/medium-size companies, and startups. Research, education, and workforce development to 
ensure American leadership in AI require collaborative partnerships across institutions. Industry 
can partner with research universities for both teaching and research, providing access to data, 
resources, and the capability to seamlessly transition research to practice, while research universities can pursue cutting-edge lines of research that provide the intellectual innovation and 
foundation needed to advance the field. By working together, academia and industry can bridge 
the gap between theory and real-world application, ensuring that AI innovations push the 
boundaries of research and quickly translate into practical benefits for society. 
We recommend the following policy actions: 
•Develop a general framework for how industry professionals can collaborate with
universities, STEM , and K-12 educators to help prepare the workforce for AI integration.
Encourage academia-industry consortia to identify and understand industry priorities andneeds for research and education.
•Incentivize integrated training partnerships between academia and industry, to enhanceand revise curriculum and research (for example, following the NSF Industry-University
Cooperative Research Centers, NSF Engineering Research Centers, NSF Science and
Technology Centers, and NSF Research Traineeship models). This is particularly
important in disciplines which will be transformed by AI but do not historically have a
high degree of industry-aligned training, such as computational biology.
•Invest in collaborative AI training and innovation within academic research trainingenvironments, which can integrate a breadth of expertise and techniques. For example,
investing in collaborative research requir es both academic and industry participation.
This will ensure that there is always a new generation of scientists, computer scientists,and engineers who are deeply motivated to capitalize on innovation opportunities.
Investing  in Data and Computing Infrastructure  to Secure 
America’s AI Preeminence 
Technology infrastructure is essential for advancements in AI. We recommend the following 
policy actions to ensure the U.S. retains its AI leadership: 
•Establish national AI research centers: Funding large, centrally shared AI ecosystemswill allow the federal government to maximize efficiency and reduce costs over locally
run resources. Policy actions such as streamlining permitting, providing tax incentives,
and incentivizing upgrades to power infrastructure will help the U.S. move quickly
enough to maintain its leadership in AI research.


   
 
 8 • Maximize the value of existing research investments through data sharing: Data is a 
fundamental raw material in recent AI development. With the generous support of the 
federal government, the U.S. conducts most of the research spending worldwide. All 
federal grants should cover the costs necessary to make this data available to U.S. AI 
researchers. 
• Invest in cloud computing: The federal granting agencies should engage with U.S. public 
cloud providers to secure favorable pricing for access to compute, storage, and GPUs 
needed for AI. Leveraging federal purchasing power for these contracts will reduce the 
burden on the American taxpayer and make it easier for startup businesses to innovate 
and succeed. 
• Support AI hardware manufacturing: Incentivize the domestic production of specialized AI hardware to ensure its availability to U.S. industry and academic institution.


