PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-ylfm -uicj
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5143
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
It is unfortunate that several different flavors of AI are conflated in the public m ind. It us also unfortunate that the non-determ inistic output
of generative AI m akes it difficult even for experts to evaluate it clear-headedly.
However num erous instances dem onstrate that generative AI has serious structural flaws which should lim it its use for any serious
application.
First: generative AI "hallucinates"; that is, it swaps elem ents from  its training data in its output. We have already seen court docum ents with
plausible but fictitious citations, and a wild m ushroom  identification guide with errors that could cause fatalities. These are not soluble
problem s, they are intrinsic to the nature of generative AI.
Second: generative AI steals. Particularly when the corpus of training data is shallow, generative AI output infringes upon work - critically,
potentially including confidential and sensitive work, if such is available for training. Queries like a request to render art in the style of a
particular artist result in infringing output, but carefully crafted queries could also reveal personal identifying inform ation or facilitate
corporate espionage.
Third: Generative AI is subject to m alicious m anipulation of training data. Many of the m ost em barrassing public failures of gen AI can be
traced to a joke site that was interpreted as factual. This can be exploited by websites designed to affect the weighting of training data.
Reducing barriers to accessing training data will not help, and will very likely harm , in ways that m ay be difficult to anticipate in advance.


