PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-sm aw-uuvb
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3125
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Anonymous Anonymous 
General Comment
AI needs to be abandoned. It is harm ful in all fields. AI has no place in our world, let alone the United States. AI has no right to use
copyrighted works of any kind to enhance or train it's m odel. It cannot be given free reign, it will spell the end of all art form s as we know
it. You will legalizing IP theft in addition to a bunch of other kinds. It will be taking power of out the hands of the talented m illions who
have been creating our favorite works for years. It takes away m y livelihood as an artist. 
AI is not the answer to any of the problem s the US or the World has. AI is not going to help anything when it com es to "National
Security" that is Trum p, Elon Musk and his cronies (OpenAI in this case) trying to further dism antle the United States for whichever
Foreign Nation has them  in their pocket. OpenAI fully knows it can't enhance it's m odel unless this passed. We cannot allow that to
happen. AI is harm ful to the world not only in what it produces but also in how m uch energy it consum es to order to create said
abom inations. This executive order, like all the executive orders that have been signed since January are all harm ful to the United States. It
will never be helpful, it only seeks to harm  us m ore, lower our world standing and further m ake us a laughingstock to our enem ies and
allies. Those behind OpenAI cannot even explain they need to ability to do this or why AI is helpful to m ankind for the purposes of their
'business' They only want profit they don't care who suffers in the pursuit of that. This will also put a stop to bigger com panies like Google
and Microsoft from  enacting the sam e practices.
AI needs to be im peded and stifled. It needs to be kept under harsh restrictions. It cannot be allowed to go public. Trum p does not care
about m aking this country stronger. He has stripped it of it's m ost necessary and needed sectors all under the guise to get a better budget
for the arm y and funding war crim es. This was NEVER about m aking Am erica better. There are no "right policies" for this or anything else
he's done. The US doesn't need to be a world leader in AI. We've not been a world leader in any regard since this m an took office. This
is not to m ake our future bright, it is to bring us into ruin quicker so we can be taken over by foreign adversaries or destroyed com pletely.
DO NOT LET THIS PASS. WE NEED TO STOP LETTING THINGS LIKE THIS GO THROUGH WITH NO OPPOSITION. For
too long has this current party gotten away with far too m uch. Congress, both the Senate and House are utterly useless. Its now up to the
people to try and right the ever-growing list of wrongs that have been com m itted since January 2025.
If you care at all about the United States and it's potential future as a nation. You will not let this go through. Resistance has to begin
som ewhere. Do not hand these people another win. Speak! Let your voice be heard!


