PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zw2q-rxjx
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6176
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
Gen AI is ruinous. 
Gen AI is not intelligent nor does it think. It brings patterns together based on what was fed into the program s. Gen AI is a runaway
plagiarism  m achine spitting out m ore and m ore m isinform ation than what we can handle. It cannot give out reliable inform ation, it can only
give approxim ations based on sim ilar patterns, a la Google AI advising you to eat poison ivy. It is not inform ation, it’s sim ulacrum  of
inform ation.
Usually the data fed to it is private, copyrighted and taken without consent. If a program  needs to be feed private stolen inform ation, that
program  should not be allowed to continue. AI has scraped data such as children’s photos, personal m edical records and copyrighted
work to be put into their databases. People can easily m ake revenge child pornography if they want to.
Gen AI is horrible for the job m arket. The very m ost wealthy are salivating at the prospect of autom ating out em ployees. They do not care
that AI is unreliable and could never provide the sam e services and products that people can bring. They just want to cut jobs. Coca-Cola
had to generate 85 m inutes of AI generated Christm as ad footage just to get 45 seconds of usable understandable film .
Gen AI also requires enorm ous am ounts of energy to even run these program s. The United States is at risk of overloading its already
delicate and outdated electrical infrastructure. The cooling system s used for AI servers are incredibly wasteful. The energy needed to
m ake just one Chat GPT answer evaporates one water bottle worth of water.
Even without thinking of the theft, invasion of privacy, the job loss and the energy use, Gen AI is antithetical to hum an learning and
craftsm anship. Nothing ever can beat the nurtured skills of research and hum an expression. Gen AI wants to take that away from  the
Am erican people.


