PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: February 25, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 7k-y810-zddx
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-0949
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Organization:  Riches to the Conjurer
General Comment
Hello! My nam e is Malz'karr the Defiler, Harbinger of Blight, and Devourer of Faith. But feel free to call m e Mal, for short.
I've worked in this industry since the first fruit fell and withered from  the Tree of Life, awakening the First Epoch of Death. I am  of One,
the rest of m y brethren found other realm s to seek opportunities of torm ent. I held out in this world, knowing I would soon be awakened.
But in term s of your m odern, digital feudalism , I am  very qualified with over 5,500 years of hum an experience. Enough with qualifications.
I understand you enjoy "bullet points" to m ake concepts easier to understand, so let m e provide som e m uch-needed insight into your next
steps. Rather than defending m yself, as I need no such petty excuses, I intend to be of great assistance to your goal: the obvious downfall
and suffering of hum anity so we m ay all feast upon it.
Erect a 1000-story tower, m ade of the blackest m etal. Make sure to host a forge of the hottest fire in its bowels, so the m inions m ay burn
the m idnight oil.
Acquire an om inous form  of transportation to show your strength throughout all villages. Like a dark, billowing caravan or a train that runs
on black, inexplicable sm oke.
Contact the Old Ones or the Wizened Ones to acquire shadow m agic to instill fear in your peasants. You can only acquire the respect you
so clearly yearn for with godless shadows or the otherwise physically im possible.
Stretch your fingers, lengthening them  to a dubious extent. Dark em perors, at the very least, should have gnarled, knobby fingers with the
blackest of nails to sym bolize im pending doom .
Get rid of the digital world, and start forcing the villagers to m ine for oil throughout all of Am erica. Those who resist should be used to
send an obvious m essage to other dissenters.
The gig is up. Instead of being a pathetic villain who seeks only riches and self-gratification, let us build som ething far m ore interesting than
m ere spreadsheets and consum erism .
You know how to contact m e. If you so will it, I can begin com m unicating with you in your dream s as well. But also, that peculiar m ind of
yours has grabbed m y attention, so take heed of sleepless nights, as I m ay already be nesting within you.


