PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zrrc-683d
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6074
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Hello
     I am  one of m any artists living in the United States, while I draw and produce art for pleasure and not profit; I have m any artist friends
that do earn a living wage on art. Som e of m y friends have only Freelance and Com m ission Art solely as their job, and with AI cropping
up into this field; they are very understandably worried about it hurting their business.
     It is not just Com m ission and Freelance that is being affected by this, even I am  quite worried with how unethical AI has becom e up to
the point of it being indistinguishable from  the real art at tim es. It has been proven tim e and tim e again that the com panies behind these AI
m odels need to use 3rd party sources to train their m odels so it can generate art. We are not being asked perm ission for this either, the
com panies are taking our pieces and feeding it into the m odel. There have been num erous exam ples of the AI Im ages being generated
even copying our waterm arks.
     Not just art has been done like this, AI Voice m odels are becom ing a real problem . On Youtube, there are a plethora of videos of the
US Presidents playing various video gam es and using their voices with this AI Model. Fam ous Celebrities are also having this as well to
fool the com m on people into thinking whatever the AI user wants to put out. There are now m odels of AI Record-and-Capture tools to
even take our voice against our knowledge and can be perform ed to do m any acts, illicit or not.
     Music is being affected with so m any videos being recom m ended of AI Generated m usic, som etim es with vocals. These m odels like
ChatGPT have also been used to m ake reports, speeches, and even school work; there is no creativity in som ething that has not
been im agined and tailored by hum an m ind and hand nor the drive of hum an spirit.
     This is becom ing an epidem ic of thievery, and one that needed to be addressed back in 2022 when it was becom ing m ainstream . I
propose an outright ban on AI Generation, it serves nothing to us on any m anner of scale. These AI Models are power hungry to the point
of reopening Three Mile Island, of which I needn't rem ind anyone of what happened there on 28th of March, 1979.


