PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-r89q-d34i
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2923
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Samuel 
Math ias 
General Comment
I am  Sam uel Mathias, a concerned individual citizen providing com m ent on the AI action plan. I will include the text requested by the
wording on this webpage below.
“This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.” 
I believe that rem oving regulations on AI in the realm s of power and m aterial consum ption is unnecessary and destructive. Current
consum ption of power and m aterial for AI data centers and the use of generative AI have already shown to negatively affect the public’s
access to necessary power use and the availability of consum er goods. Even within current guidelines, the overconsum ption of power has
caused several grids to becom e less reliable, so rem oving current regulation would only cause further issues. More regulations and
requirem ents to isolate from  existing and necessary grids should be in place, as well as associating the higher energy costs with renewable
resources.
I also believe that the AI data gathering process should be m ore restrictive than it currently is, as it is a threat to personal privacy and
personal property of individuals and businesses. There should be further regulation focused around the protection of intellectual property
and personal inform ation, and AI system s should only have the ability to gather voluntarily subm itted data. Allowing the scrapping of
public data from  websites and social m edia platform s is a security risk and should not be perm itted.
I do not believe the use of AI as it is currently popularized is beneficial to the general public in any way. An entirely new system  would
need to be created with clear and publicly stated protections and goals that directly show the benefit to the general public.


