PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-w9xq-jqot
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3822
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
When considering an AI Action Plan for the nation, A couple of things that I have to address is the need for proper and ethical training of
AI system s and cojoined with that thought is the preservation of Intellectual Property and Copyright.
Any AI system  that could have beneficial m erit m ust be trained on data that is owned by the organization developing the technology, or
using inform ation expressly given to it by contributors. This training m ust be rigorous to avoid errors; som etim es taking m onths or years of
developm ent and rigorous testing. Recent events with software technology, such as the 2024 CrowdStrike Incident serves as a grim
rem inder of what can happen when even seem ingly dependable system s have a critical issue. The AI technology m ust ensure that factual
and beneficial inform ation is given at all tim es. Any AI system  that gives out any inform ation that could be considered faulty or spurious
casts a dark shadow on the technology as a whole, and there is inform ation publicly available detailing serious errors and om issions m ade
by various AI system s available today that was not thoroughly developed. An expansion of AI into everyday life will im pact Am ericans in
m ore negative ways than positive ones unless there is a forem ost effort for all private and public AI technologies to use quality data that is
developed by the AI developers them selves or contributed by trusted sources and cultivated for the best uses in stability and security.
A m ajor concern that goes along with the previous statem ent is the potential for any AI developer to use any inform ation without regard
for previous established uses of Intellectual Property and Copyright law. Many Am ericans, both individual and as parts of Corporations,
rely on Intellectual Property and Copyright law to protect their intellectual investm ents. Any AI Action Plan that is developed in this
country needs to ensure that carte blanche is not given to any AI developer that would infringe on the rights of practically every Am erican
for its own benefit. If Intellectual Property and Copyright law is weakened any way by this action plan, that will cause severe IP issues and
set off years of legal strife in m any Intellectual fields such as Art, Music, Motion Pictures, Interactive Entertainm ent, and this would reach
into Software Developm ent also, including AI technology, just to nam e a few industries out of m any if any AI developer has overreach
into inform ation that it does not intellectually own. The Copyright Office recently has stated as a part of their policy that it m ust uphold the
hum an requirem ent for any works created, even if it has been created with AI and that should be upheld and protected for the good of
m any Am ericans that have benefited this country through their creative efforts. I strongly urge the policym akers that read this to consider
these points to ensure that any AI technology developed in this country is trusted, reliable, and respecting of the rule of law in its ongoing
developm ent.


