PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-yfh3-b80a
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5030
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Josh Reynolds  
General Comment
It is vital that artificial intelligence developm ent not be perm itted to infringe on copyrighted works. As it now stands, creators of im ages,
photographs, m usical com positions, and written works are subject to their work being stolen for the purpose of training AI program s. This
not only causes m onetary losses to creators, it stifles creativity in the first place. AI sim ply cannot com e up with new ideas; it sim ply
m ashes together fragm ents of existing work in ways that are often incoherent and, when used to generate text docum ents, laughably false.
There is a reason such errors are called "hallucinations". Overreliance on AI has already been shown to dim inish critical-thinking and other
creative skills, and leads to a particular arrogance am ong AI users that they can solve problem s by sim ply throwing a bunch of text and
data into an AI program , and then trust what com es out of it, often without fully understanding the principles behind the problem  in the first
place.
Aside from  the ram pant theft of copyrighted m aterial and dam age to creative capabilities, AI is a potential environm ental disaster. Like
cryptocurrency, it consum es a vast am ount of electricity while producing very little of value (although AI is not as closely associated with
crim inal activity). This problem  will only be exacerbated by the current adm inistration's war em brace of outdated and inefficient sources of
energy.
AI has som e potential, in term s of "m achine learning" (the term  preferred by people in the field who actually know what they're talking
about, as opposed to business types interested only in hyping stock rather than solving problem s). However, it has the potential for m uch
greater harm  if it is not harnessed and supervised carefully.


