PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-9tnk-1fto
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1471
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Coalition of Services Industries (CSI)
General Comment
Please find com m ents from  the Coalition of Services Industries (CSI) enclosed.
Attachments
CSI Subm ission on AI Action Plan


Coalition of Services Industries (CSI) Submission:  
Comments on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
to the National Science Foundation  and Office of Science and Technology Policy  
Docket N umber: 2025 -02305  
AI enables businesses to innovate, improve efficiencies, and create new products and services. The 
US has been a leader in services and digital trade , and continued leadership in AI helps maintain 
our competitive edge globally.  Whether its driving innovation and productivity  across sectors 
including manufacturing , or streamlin ing and optimiz ing logistics and supply chain management, 
American companies are  leveraging AI to be more competitive  in international markets.  The 
Coalition of Services Industries (CSI)1 respectfully submits the following comments  for the 
development of the AI Action Plan.  
To ensure America’s technology and AI leadership, we must work with our trading partners and 
international organizations to create and promote best practices,  information, and guidance, to 
ensure that  policy and regulatory approaches  are interoperable.  If the US is not at the table, the 
rules will be written without us.  The Administration should deploy US leadership on AI to convene 
dialogues and develop frameworks on AI governance, such as  with the G7, OECD, and United 
Nations, to ensure the development of global AI governance aligns with America’s values and 
economic priorities.  We encourage the administration to utilize NIST to continue to promote US 
industry-driven, consensus -based standards and frameworks for AI to address the risk of global 
regulatory divergence in this space as countries consider  their own national  and regional  AI 
regulations.  
US leadership in AI relies on maintain ing the ability of American companies to utilize AI to better 
serve their customers globally. This requires  access to global markets and regulatory environments 
that allow for AI deployment. We encourage the Administration to work with our trading partners in 
the following areas : 
Risk-Based Approach to Regulations  
Promote flexible risk -based approaches  rather than overly prescriptive requirements to AI 
governance . AI is a horizontal technology, applicable to many existing laws and regulations. It is 
important to examine AI’s use and impact in specific applications to evaluate whether existing rules 
are suitable before developing new technology -specific laws.  
Any AI regulations should be specific, targeted, and carefully consider the potential economic and 
social trade -offs. Policymakers  should work  closely with industry and other stakeholders  to identify 
high-risk applications of AI  and avoid broad categories like entire sectors as high risk , to focus any 
new rules on the use of technology to address gaps in the application of existing law to high -risk 
uses of AI, where appropriate.  Industry-led, voluntary accountability mechanisms  should be 
utilized to promote  innovation and AI deployment across sectors and business uses.  
Cross Border Data Flows  
1 CSI, established in 1982, is the leading U.S. industry association devoted exclusively to ensuring America’s services 
businesses, which are increasingly digitally enabled, and workers compete in world markets. CSI member companies 
represent a broad spectr um of the U.S. services sector including distribution services, express delivery, financial 
services, media and entertainment, telecommunications, information and communication technology services, and 
professional services.  


Data is foundational to AI . In order to fully realize the benefits of AI, data must be able to  flow freely 
and protected across borders. Policies that restrict data flows or require data to be store d locally 
limit utilization and access of AI  technology , particularly for small businesses.  We encourage the 
Administration to  work with trading partners  to strengthen their  commitment s to facilitating cross 
border data flow and refrain from  imposing data localization measures.  
Privacy & Cybersecurity  
The Administration should work with trading partners to ensure privacy and cybersecurity 
frameworks are interoperable and do not inhibit AI use and deployment.  
Cybersecurity and privacy are foundational to trustworthy AI systems . Because d ata is so critical to 
the development of AI, clear and consistent privacy protections for personal privacy are important 
for building trust in AI and creating the clarity needed for businesses to deploy AI. The 
Administration should encourage  governments to adopt robust but flexible data protection regimes 
to support data integrity that enables the collection, retention, and processing of data for AI 
development.  
Policymakers should also consider the cybersecurity implications of AI systems and ensure that 
policies support the use of AI for cybersecurity purposes. Cybersecurity technologies  that 
incorporate AI help organizations  keep pace with the evolving threat landscape, including  highly 
sophisticated attackers who constantly improving tactics to  evade detection.  
International Standards  
AI standards are essential to increase  interoperability, harmonization, and trust in  
Al systems. It is imperative  that the Administration work with our allies to promote global, voluntary 
and industry -led standards  on AI. Broad adoption of international standards will reduce market 
access barriers for American businesses and ensure a level playing field globally.  
Standards work should also be technology  neutral, avoiding preferential treatment for any  
specific technical approach.  ISO and IEE standards (for examples ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 42 on Artificial  
Intelligence ) provide structured governance  and appropriate risk management. It is also important 
to engage regional standards bodies, for example the European standards organization, CEN and 
CENELEC, are developing standards  as part of implementation for the EU AI Act and will be setting 
standards that could have much broader influence beyond the EU.  
Open Data  
Promote AI innovation by pursuing an open data agenda that allows for access to high -value, non -
sensitive government data , builds shared computing and data resources that can serve as the 
infrastructure for open innovation ecosystems , and improves public-private coordination  to make it 
easier to access the computing power necessary to develop and evaluate AI.  
Workforce Development  
Maintaining US AI leadership will require a workforce with the appropriate skills and training. 
Collaborating between government, the private sector and academia  is vital to ensure a  pipeline for 
developing and acquiring tech talent  well-suited for the AI economy.  This includes leveraging AI for 
upskilling and reskilling purposes. These investments will ensure that workers are prepared to 
responsibly deploy AI tools and adapt to changing workforce needs.  


