PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-3w6e-d2jw
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1398
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Governm ent Agency Type:  Foreign
Governm ent Agency:  AI in Education at Oxford University (AIEOU)
General Comment
Please see the attached file(s) which contains our response to the call for com m ent.
Attachments
US AI RFI AIEOU


1 Response t o United States Government 
Request for Information on the Development 
of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan. 
Submitted by Sara Ratner, Clara Hawking, Helen Crompton, Salih Mansur, Jaime Bissa, David Rudd, Julie 
Foss, Rebecca Pitkin, Aigerim Shilibekova, Mirza Baig, Naaz Farooqi, Obed Boateng, and Hang Vu. 
14 March 2025.  
Introduction  
In response to the call for comment regarding the United States Government’ s new AI Action Plan, 
we are reminded of the assertion that with great power comes great responsibility . As the world 
grapples with the potential of AI to transform all aspects of our lives, we call for the government to 
carefully navigate the critical balance between innovation and responsibility.  
The design and development of thoughtful guidelines will ensure AI is beneficial for all in driving 
progress and national advancement.  
Any policies arising from this call must address both the transformative potential of AI and its 
limitations/potential for misuse across all disciplines and at all stages of a citizen ’s life. 
AIEOU is an interdisciplinary research hub at the University of Oxford which is comprised of more 
than 1000 academics, educators, technologists, governments and students from around the 
world. Our community of practice aims to  promote a research-informed, ethical, human-centered 
approach to AI in Education through collaboration and knowledge exchange. Working across the 
four pillars of design, regulation, implementation and impact, we collaborate with stakeholders 
from around the world to co-create a use case for AI in Education that represents the best 
interests of all learners, everywhere.  
Figure 1. AIEOU Research Streams 
Accordingly, our contribution to this call for comment (led by some of our U.S. based members) 
will be structured under these headings.  


2 Design  
We recommend that the government incentivizes the design of AI models and tools which 
augment rather than seek to replace human experience.  
Well-designed AI has the potential to be transformative. Especially if made accessible, engaging, 
and effective for all. But what constitutes well-designed AI? 
To our understanding, a well-designed AI system is: 
User-centric – designed with the end-user in mind
Reliable and robust – capable of performing consistently and accurately
Transparent and explainable – allowing users to understand how the AI makes decisions
Secure and private – protection of user data and the prevention of misuse as a priority
Scalable and adaptable – able to grow with the user and as the technology evolves
The potential benefits of leveraging AI are numerous, but first the AI models must meet these 
foundational requirements. 
Our collective work has highlighted the key challenges and opportunities in leveraging AI in 
educational contexts as demonstrated in the scenarios below.   
The potential exists for AI-powered learning analytics that can assess student performance data 
to identify gaps and recommend personalized learning paths but only if we first implement AI 
systems that comply with FERPA, ADA, COPPA and define clear policies on data ownership and 
consent for AI-based education tools.  
Natural Language Processing (NLP) can augment the creation of course materials, summarize 
key concepts, and automate content updates while AI-driven tools like Virtual Assistants and 
Chatbots can provide real-time content support to both instructors and students. However, first 
we must ensure AI models are trained on diverse, representative datasets to minimize bias and 
establish transparent AI decision-making processes for educational applications.  
AI-driven platforms could personalize and adapt learning to match pace, prior knowledge and 
predictive analytics may be used to provide timely interventions for students who are potentially 
at risk. Yet, to do this well, professional learning programs must be aligned to empower educators 
with AI literacy skills, and we must ensure that AI enhances, rather than replaces, human-led 
instruction.  
Striking a careful balance between innovation and responsibility is key.  
Pertaining to the design of AI, specifically for use in educational contexts, we recommend the U.S. 
Government consider the following as part of the AI Action Plan: 
1.Investment  – research is needed to establish best practice in designing and developing
user-centric AI models.
2.Regulation  - the establishment of clear guidelines for the use of AI in educational contexts
including, but not limited to, ethical AI use, bias mitigation, and security.
3.Collaboration  - foster partnerships between government agencies, educational
institutions, and ed-tech companies to drive AI innovation responsibly.
4.Transparency - we need visibility of the detailed approaches that have been built into
content for it to be usable and worthy of trust.


3 Regulation  
We recommend that the government develops national guidelines for AI that promote a human-
centred approach to the responsible use of AI to meets the agreed needs of the society.  
We call upon the U.S. government to: 
Establish a robust and consistent digital infrastructure to provide fair access to AI that
addresses the existing digital divide.
Craft an agenda that addresses AI inclusion and data sovereignty that provides for user- 
agency and autonomy from birth and that follows the citizen for life with an emphasis on
a human centred approach at the implementation stages.
Provide all citizens, beginning in the early years of schooling with an awareness about
what constitutes responsible AI and ways it can be incorporated within the community
and beyond.
Clear safeguarding practices and legal procedures to ensure privacy and data protection
for all citizens from birth.
Implementation  
We recommend that the government embraces a collaborative approach to the implementation 
of AI tools that makes technology companies accountable to the end user in a manner that 
promotes transparency, accessibility and responsibility.  
Drawing from the European Tech Alliance’s Strategic Vision (2024),  we call on the U.S. 
government to consider developing a national strategy that: 
Emphasizes cohesion and cooperation between federal, state, and local actors
Communicates agreed timelines for implementation that provide for an assessment of
efficacy and a willingness (and process) to shed policies and practices that are ineffective
Includes a non-partisan, independent accountability partner
For the national implementation of AI tools to be effective, citizens of America must be able to 
interact with them competently. Referencing UNESCO ’s (2024) Competency Frameworks for 
Teacher and Students, the development of skills and understanding pertaining to the 
implementation of AI tools at scale is essential. Global education systems have the ability to 
prepare our young people for their future if we provide schools and educators with the tools to 
competently do so.  
Building on the envisaged increase in the AI competency of its citizens, we propose the U.S. 
Government establish interdisciplinary innovation hubs across the USA that serve to match the 
potential of the technology to the needs and challenges of the community.   
These interdisciplinary innovation hubs will prioritize collaborative research, regional problem 
solving, representative voices, resource sharing and idea exchange. They will inspire a national 
conversation and feedback loop that gives citizens a voice regarding career pathways, workforce 
deployment, human purpose and policy.  


4 Impact  
We recommend that the government map and measure the implementation of AI models and 
tools at all levels is essential to better understand the impact as part of their national strategy.  
When examining the impact of AI, particularly on Education, it is important to think about policy in 
relation to what we learn (both within and across domains), how we learn and what it means for 
the wider ecosystem. As part of this call for comment, these are important considerations at all 
levels of education including early childhood, elementary, secondary, higher education and 
vocational education.  
To achieve the stated goal of global AI leadership, the U.S. must invest in education, workforce 
development, and governance frameworks that ensure AI innovation enhances, rather than 
disrupts, economic and societal stability.  
However, any national AI strategy must also account for the special needs of children, individuals 
under 18, and vulnerable populations who may struggle to provide informed consent in AI-driven 
environments.  
Policies must include measures to:  
Ensure children interact with AI in a manner that protects their legal, civil, and human
rights, particularly their rights to privacy, data protection, and promote their ability to
make informed choices in digital spaces.
Embed AI literacy as a standard in all teacher education programs, ensuring educators
are equipped to guide students in responsible AI use from the start.
Prioritize equitable access to AI-related technologies and education to prevent a fractured
workforce and worsening digital divides.
Recognize the unique role parents and guardians play in guiding their children ’s AI
interactions, providing them with the necessary resources and understanding to support
safe and ethical engagement with AI.
A national AI strategy cannot solely focus on removing barriers to private sector innovation; it 
must simultaneously ensure an AI-literate educational ecosystem, future workforce, uphold 
democratic values, and establish safeguards that protect vulnerable populations from AI-driven 
harms.  
AI adoption in education, from K-12 through to workforce reskilling, must be a national priority.  
Supporting Evidence: 
The Parliament of Australia (2024) Inquiry into the Digital Transformation of Workplaces
calls for education and training designed around augmentation, accelerated pathways to
skill development through micro credentials, information campaigns to support scaled
communication about AI, and continued research on digital transformation.
UNESCO's Recommendation on the Ethics of Artificial Intelligence (2021) emphasizes the
protection of human rights and dignity in AI development. It advocates for transparency,
fairness, and human oversight, ensuring AI systems do not infringe upon individual rights.
Notably, it underscores the importance of privacy and data protection, which are crucial
for safeguarding children and vulnerable groups.


5 OECD AI Pr inciples (2019, updated 2024) promote innovative and trustworthy AI that
respects human rights and democratic values. These principles call for AI systems to be
robust, safe, and fair, with particular attention to transparency and accountability.
G7 Hiroshima AI Process (2023) (including the USA). These principles aim to promote
safe, secure, and trustworthy AI worldwide. They emphasize the protection of human
rights, democratic values, and the importance of human-centric AI development. The
process also advocates for multi-stakeholder collaboration, ensuring diverse voices
contribute to AI governance.
European Union AI Act (2024), the world ’s first comprehensive AI regulation, establishes a
risk-based framework to ensure AI development aligns with human rights, transparency,
and accountability.
Positioning America as a leader in AI 
To sustain America ’s desired leadership in AI, the U.S. must invest in AI literacy as a core 
competency for all its citizens. This requires immediate action to ensure the next generation of 
educators is equipped to educate students on AI, not just as users but as critical thinkers, ethical 
decision-makers, and future innovators. 
We recommend that the U.S. Government make AI literacy training mandatory in teacher 
education.  AI literacy must be a core requirement in all accredited teacher preparation programs. 
Just as literacy and numeracy are fundamental teaching competencies, AI fluency must become 
a baseline qualification for educators, ensuring they can integrate AI tools effectively while 
safeguarding students' rights.  
We recommend that the U.S. Government implement a national program for upskilling. Federal 
investment in professional development will ensure schools remain centers of AI innovation 
rather than passive adopters.  
We recommend that the U.S. Government provide equitable access to AI infrastructure.  A failure 
to provide equal access to AI education and resources could lead to deepening socioeconomic 
divides and a fractured workforce, threatening both national economic stability and America ’s 
ability to compete globally. Targeted federal funding must support AI integration in under-
resourced schools, rural districts, and historically marginalized communities to ensure AI 
opportunity is not dictated by zip code.  
Supporting Evidence: 
Fullan et al. (2024) found that Educators had to make swift transitions to distance
learning during the COVID pandemic, with the success of these efforts being questioned.
Now, AI is causing a similar type of disruption. It requires school leaders to ask important
questions about how they need to be equipped to lead schools as AI become more
sophisticated and infused in our daily lives.
Integrating AI literacy into accredited teacher preparation programs is essential. Meylani
(2024) completed a qualitative synthesis of current literature, revealing that AI-driven
tools support ongoing professional growth, enabling educators to effectively integrate AI
into their teaching practices.
Luckin et al. (2022) elucidates the concept of AI Readiness along with a framework for AI
readiness training for organisations.
Schellekens and Skilling (2024) highlight that without targeted policy interventions, AI
may deepen existing inequalities. Federal funding must support AI integration in under-
resourced schools, rural districts, and historically marginalized communities to provide all
students with equal opportunities in AI education.


6 AI Literacy as a Natio nal Priority
We recommend positioning AI literacy as a national priority. 
Trump’s American AI Initiative (White House, 2020) recognized the importance of building an AI-
ready workforce to sustain U.S. technological and economic leadership.  
The National AI Initiative Act of 2020 recognized AI education as a pillar of national strategy, yet 
AI literacy has not been systematically embedded in K-12 education or teacher training.  
To realize AI for American Innovation, AI for American Industry, and AI for the American Worker, 
federal action must accelerate AI literacy efforts in schools today.  
America cannot afford to leave AI education to voluntary adoption. 
AI literacy must be treated as a national strategic investment, ensuring future workers are not 
just consumers of AI but leaders in its development and governance.  
Accordingly, sustained investment is essential to maintain  the sought after leadership role in AI. 
This includes not only funding research and development for safety ‑oriented technologies and 
novel AI methodologies but also expanding educational and training programs.  
By aligning workforce development with the technical demands of AI, such as courses in machine 
learning, ethics, and cybersecurity, the proposed national action plan can help create a pipeline 
of skilled professionals capable of advancing and monitoring AI systems. To achieve this, U.S. 
citizens and their workforce must be AI literate. 
Closing Comments  
The 2025 Executive Order  aims to remove barriers to AI innovation and therefore, it is imperative 
that young people, indeed all citizens, are educated to use AI responsibly and competently to 
achieve that goal.  
Citizens must be taught to think critically.  
Aler Tubella et al. (2023) found that most students and teachers don ’t know how to tell if AI-
generated content is accurate or biased.  
The 2025 Executive Order  (White House, 2025) highlights the importance of keeping AI free from 
bias and engineered agendas, reinforcing the need for transparency and critical thinking when it 
comes to the use of AI.  
Everyone must know how to fact-check AI outputs, protect their data, and recognize AI bias 
(Oyeyipo et al., 2024). Misinformation and cybersecurity are real concerns.  


7 We must ba lance the need for innovation with the responsibility it brings. 
AI can make humans more efficient but shouldn ’t make decisions for us (Vincent-Lancrin & van 
der Vlies, 2020).  
The 2025 Executive Order  (White House, 2025) focuses on driving forward U.S. AI innovation, but 
it must not come at a cost to accuracy, democracy, and human oversight.  
AI innovation at pace demands a system of regular checks and balances that are best served 
through transparency and clear guidelines to ensure AI is augmenting the human experience, not 
harming it.  
With great power comes great responsibility. 
As the 2025 Executive Order (White House, 2025) aims to removes barriers to AI growth and 
innovation, we submit that this can only be achieved by first ensuring that its citizens are 
competent and capable users of the technology.  
This means providing robust and reliable tools that are transparent, secure and used responsibly. 
For U.S. citizens to be innovators and leaders in AI, they must first be educated to do so as 
literate, competent users of AI and critical thinkers.   
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information.  Document contents may be ( print page 9089) reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated  documents without attribution. 


8 References  
Aler Tubella, A., Mora-Cantallops, M., & Nieves, J. C. (2023). How to teach responsible AI in higher 
education: Challenges and opportunities. Ethics and Information Technology , 26(3). 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10676-023-09733-7   
Baker, T., &  Smith, L. (2019). Educ-ai-tion rebooted? exploring the future of artificial intelligence. 
NESTA. https://media.nesta.org.uk/documents/Future_of_AI_and_education_v5_WEB.pdf  
Cozens, J. (2025, February 13). The Impact of AI in Education: Navigating the Imminent Future. 
Future of Life . 
European Commission. (2019). Ethics guidelines for trustworthy AI. Publications Office of the 
European Union. https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/ethics-guidelines-trustworthy-ai  
European  Union. (2024). AI Act. https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/1689/oj/eng  
European  Tech Alliance. (2024). 2030 Vision. https://eutechalliance.eu/2030-vision/  
Fullan, M., A zorín, C., Harris, A., & Jones, M. (2023). Artificial intelligence and school leadership: 
challenges, opportunities and implications. School Leadership & Management , 44(4), 339–346. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/13632434.2023.2246856 
G7 Hiroshi ma AI Process. (2023). G7 Leaders Statement on the Hiroshima AI Process. 
https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/g7-leaders-statement-hiroshima-ai-process  
Gillani, N., Eyn on, R., Chiabaut, C., & Finkel, K. (2023). Unpacking the ‘black box’ of ai in 
education. Educational Technology & Society . 
https://doaj.org/article/52c2127ca9f747e5b511ce1af877e90a  
Holmes, W., &  Tuomi, I. (2022). State of the art and practice in AI in Education. European Journal 
of Education , 57(4), 542–570. 
Huang, A. Y. Q., Lu, O. H. T., & Yang, S. J. H. (2023). Effects of artificial intelligence–enabled 
personalized recommendations on learners’ learning engagement, motivation, and outcomes in a 
flipped classroom. Computers & Education,  194, 104684. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compedu.2022.104684   
Luckin, R., C ukurova, M., Kent, C. & du Boulay, B. (2022). Empowering educators to be AI-ready. 
Computers and Education: Artificial Intelligence , 3, 100076, 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666920X22000315  
Meylani, R. ( 2024). Artificial Intelligence in the Education of Teachers: A Qualitative Synthesis of 
the Cutting-Edge Research Literature. Journal of Computer and Education Research , 12(24), 
600-637.
Miao, F., & Shiohiro, K. (2024). AI Competency Framework for Students. UNESCO. 
https://doi.org/10.54675/JKJB9835    
Miao, F., & Cu kurova, M. (2024). AI Competency Framework for Teachers. UNESCO. 
https://doi.org/10.54675/ZJTE2084   


9 OECD. (2019 , updated 2024) AI Principles. https://www.oecd.org/en/topics/sub-issues/ai-
principles.html  
Oyeyipo, A. O., A bdulahi, A. A., & Olaitan, S. U. (2024). Digital literacy and inclusivity of 
instructional content: AI-enabled educational tools for performance enhancement. Custech 
International Journal of Education , 1(1). 
https://custechijoe.org.ng/index.php/custechijoe/article/view/9  
Parliamen t of Australia. (2024). Inquiry into the digital transformation of workplaces. 
https://www.aph.gov.au/Parliamentary_Business/Committees/House/Employment_Education_a
nd_Training/DigitalTransformation  
Schelleke ns, P., & Skilling, D. (2024, October 17). Three Reasons Why AI May Widen Global 
Inequality. https://www.cgdev.org/blog/three-reasons-why-ai-may-widen-global-inequality  
Sun, Z., Yu, Z. C., &  Xu, F. Y. (2023). Analysis and Improvement of Classroom Teaching Based on 
Artificial Intelligence. In: Niemi, H., Pea, R.D., Lu, Y. (eds) AI in Learning: Designing the Future . 
Springer Link, pp.105-121. 
UNESCO. (2021). Recommendation on the Ethics of Artificial Intelligence. 
https://www.unesco.org/en/articles/recommendation-ethics-artificial-intelligence   
U.S. Depart ment of Education, Office of Educational Technology. (2023). Artificial intelligence and 
the future of teaching and learning: Insights and recommendations. Washington, D.C. 
https://www.ed.gov/sites/ed/files/documents/ai-report/ai-report.pdf   
Vincent-La ncrin, S., & van der Vlies, R. (2020). Trustworthy artificial intelligence (AI) in education: 
Promises and challenges. OECD Education Working Papers (218). 
https://dx.doi.org/10.1787/a6c90fa9-en   
White House. (2 020, December 3). Promoting the Use of Trustworthy Artificial Intelligence in 
Government. Office of Science and Technology, Washington D.C. 
https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/articles/promoting-use-trustworthy-artificial-intelligence-
government/  
White House. (2 025). Executive order on removing barriers to American leadership in artificial 
intelligence. Washington, DC. https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-
actions/2025/01/removing-barriers-to-american-leadership-in-artificial-intelligence/   


