PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-8x50-0sdp
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1823
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  STM
General Comment
Please find attached com m ents from  STM on the AI Action Plan.
Attachments
US Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan March 2025


STM (The International Association of Scientific, Technical and Medical Publishers)  
www.stm -assoc.org  
March 15, 2025  
Faisal D'Souza  
National Coordination Office (NCO)  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) 
National Science Foundation  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
RE: STM Response to Request  for Information  on the Development of an Artificial  Intelligence (AI)  
Action Plan  (90 FR 9088)  
Dear Mr. D’Souza : 
STM , the International Association of Scientific, Technical and Medical Publishers welcomes the 
opportunity to provide input on the development of a n AI Action Plan , as published in the Federal 
Register on February 6, 2025 .  
STM represents  non-profit scientific societies, university presses, and commercial publishers . Our 
members play a vital role in disseminating high -quality, peer -reviewed research that drives scientific 
discovery and innovation. We are deeply invested in ensuring that AI technologies are developed and 
deployed in a manner that promotes discovery an d innovation while ensuring the integrity and reliability 
of the information provided by the technology, protecting intellectual property, and fostering public 
trust. 
We appreciate the Trump Administrations commitment to build on America’s leadership in AI 
development to promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security.  
STM and its member publishers understand that AI has the potential to radically change the way we 
work , learn, do research, and deal with information , and  STM members are already deploying AI to 
support accurate, transparent, and reliable research and discovery processes. These comments draw 
upon our extensive experience in addressing AI -related challenges within the scholarly communication 
ecosystem,  including through its use in the research process and by providing high -quality inputs to 
train , build , and ground  new AI systems. STM and its members welcome further co llaboration to share 
our expertise in these areas.  
In fact, STM believes that the AI Action Plan should prioritize partnerships between federal agencies and 
the private sector, including our member publishers. STM believes that the highest priority policy 
actions should include the following interconnected pillars (1) accelerating research through the use of 
authoritativ e vetted and licensed content; (2) ensuring the integrity and provenance  of AI outputs ; and 
(3)ensuring the benefits of  AI to all by promoting literacy and engagement with AI for all Americ ans.


STM (The International Association of Scientific, Technical and Medical Publishers)  
www.stm -assoc.org  Below, w e expand on these three priorities  with  key points and  concrete suggestions for action.  
1.Accelerating Breakthrough Research
AI is already being used in scholarly publishing to improve the efficiency of research and discovery,  to 
enhance research integrity, and to identify promising areas of new research. It is being deployed 
internally by publishers to improve the management of articles and peer review, detect potential 
research misconduct, summarize articles, and improve research recommendations. It is being used 
externally to support researcher efficiency and help identify promising avenues of study. It seems that  
the future potential applications in this area are limitless. For example,  applications of AI may  go beyond 
testing hypotheses against vast amounts of data to also creating new ones, developing new theories, 
and exploring new connections . 
This innovation builds on and depends upon the availability of high -quality  human -created content, 
vetted by humans, describing intellectual contributions of  humans based on experimentation and 
discovery.  The utility of this content for AI and the public is further enhanced by publishers, who 
validat e, normaliz e, tag and enrich content  to make it  interoperable and broadly understandable by 
machines and humans alike. Regardless of the purpose of an AI tool, the accuracy of the scientific record 
maintained by science and academic publishers is essential t o ensure that machine learning has both 
depth and accuracy.  
Therefore, the ability of AI to accelerate breakthrough research depends on intellectual property 
protection for the functioning of the scholarly communications ecosystem and the continued viability of 
a scholarly communications industry and ecosystem.  The AI Action Plan should ensure:  
•Respect and reinforce existing intellectual property protections , including but not limited to
copyright law, to ensure the ongoing development and availability of high -quality, vetted
information and content.  We also refer you to an STM submission to the US Patent and
Trademark Office in 2020  on the need for intellectual property protection in the context of AI
innovation.  
•Leverage and build upon an already existing and well -functioning licensing market . The market
for licensing content to AI developers has developed because the framework for it already
exists, both in terms of copyright law and contract law which allows willing parties to agree
mutually acceptable terms for direct licensing or via inter mediaries. Licensing also fosters
accountability, transparency, and provenance with regard to key information such as training
materials used by AI systems.
•Leverage and build upon existing efforts , including those of STM and our members, to promote
high -quality, accurate information and prevent the introduction and spread of “hallucinations”
and misinformation.
Specific actions could include:  
•The NAIRR pilot  should ensure the use of licensed content  in its activities. Currently, to our
knowledge, although NAIRR articulates a need for respect of intellectual property, it does not


STM (The International Association of Scientific, Technical and Medical Publishers)  
www.stm -assoc.org  have explicit requirements related to licensing of content. However, ensuring that AI systems 
are trained on properly licensed, high -quality data is crucial. By  licen sing publishers’ "Version of 
Record" (VoR) content for AI training , NAIRR could  improve outputs and provide a best practice 
example of licensing practices.  
•Promote standards that encourage or certify  when AI tools are using the best quality
information . For scholarly information, this would be the Version of Record  which contains the
latest peer -reviewed information and is preserved with integrity to include any corrections, to
promote accuracy and reduce the risk of erroneous outputs .
•Require audits  and/or certification of the outputs of AI for accuracy and lack of bias, in
coordination with the private sector and emerging tools . This could include implementation of
corrective mechanisms for inaccurate or outdated information . In the scholarly space, this
would ensure that corrections and/or retractions are included in AI, so as not to waste
investments or taxpayer dollar s on outdated research  outputs.
2.Build trust with transparency regarding  the integrity and provenance of AI outputs
In May 2021, STM published a White Paper outlining principles for an ethical, trustworthy,  and human -
centric AI . The potential for AI to produce inaccurate information is exacerbated where bad, inaccurate, 
or false information is used as inputs or in the training sets, rather than the best, high -quality 
information available. STM and its members are committed to impr oving the integrity of information 
and preventing the introduction of information that is inaccurate, unethical, or is unable to be 
reproduced, including for the use of AI.  
Trust in AI systems has been significantly negatively impacted by a lack of clarity about their operation, 
use of trusted works, and a lack of transparency regarding the works used in training. In addition to 
improving the reliability and trustworthiness of such systems, t ransparency obligations are essential to 
understand the scale and scope of copyrighted works used in AI training, and to enable rightsholders to 
effectively manage their rights and engage in licensing. This practice will significantly cont ribute to the 
development of AI in a legal, ethical and sustainable manner.  
Fundamentally, we believe that the following  are priorities for an AI Action Plan to make sure that AI 
and AI outputs are trustworthy, reliable, and trusted : 
•Require  public transparency and provenance  of training data and content  to enable users to
understand and trace back results to their sources  and for users and rightsholders to understand
what sources were used in training the system . In the scholarly sector, this could include
requirements that an AI system and its outputs be placed into a chain of evidence such that
results can be more easily reproduced.
•Clarify that accountability  lies in all providers and contributors of AI solutions , including
generative AI models, and throughout the whole life cycle of the AI . Providers should keep all


STM (The International Association of Scientific, Technical and Medical Publishers)  
www.stm -assoc.org  records, documentation , and associated metadata for the duration of the existence of the AI 
system to support AI accountability throughout the value chain.  
•Work to support and fund efforts to protect the integrity of research and education , which may
be particularly vulnerable  to misinformation or misinterpretation of AI outputs.  In particular , a
government policy should support the  development and implementation of defensive
mechanisms to identify products (whether quantitative, visual, or textual) created by AI . In the
scholarly sector, these would include fake (synthetic) or manipulated image  and data  detection,
identification of paper mills , and the prevention of the use of inaccurate versions  of content  or
illegally sourced  content.  
Specific actions could include:  
•Requiring a thorough, publicly available list of references and inputs  that enables users or
rightsholders to identify what materials were used to train the AI system, or potentially
something more sophisticated. The purpose would be to enable users or auditors to track back
assertions generated by AIs to the original litera ture inputs.
•Working with other stakeholders to identify and safeguard the trustworthiness of AI outputs .
For example, the STM Integrity Hub  works to address challenges to the integrity of scholarly
communication from human actors as well as AI tools. Through a combination of shared data
and experiences, and by harnessing technological innovation, the STM Integrity Hub provides an
environment  for publishers to collaborate with other parties to develop and operate screening
tools, including those using sophisticated AI  for the benefit of the entire scholarly ecosystem
3.Enable the  benefits of AI to all Americans  through education  and protection of American  creators
Ensuring the development of AI includes all Americans is a key priority for the Trump Administration, as 
the benefits and opportunities are not necessarily equally distributed across the United States. To make 
sure that AI is used appropriately, is available for appropriate use by all Americans, and does not 
undermine American contributions to creativity and innovation, the AI Action Plan should include:  
•Promot ion of  digital literacy  so that individuals understand the appropriate use and limitations
of AI tools.
•Public education on the appropriate use of and risks of use of this information, including the
potential for misinformation  from tools that appear to be reliable  but are, in fact, unreliable .
•An appropriate licensing regime  to protect creators. Such an approach would allow authors or
other rightsholders to determine under what conditions and for what purposes their works can
be used for training or other purposes. With the current massive uptake of generative AI tools,
creators  and other rightsholders are seeing their works used for purposes other than what they
intended, and even seeing the output of generative AI mimicking or competing with their
copyrighted works.


STM (The International Association of Scientific, Technical and Medical Publishers)  
www.stm -assoc.org  •Clear terms and conditions  for the use of AI, especially generative AI, so that users do not
inadvertently undermine IP.
Specific activities in the Action Plan might include:  
•A public education campaign  that emphasizes AI literacy, technical training, and intellectual
property protections.
With appropriate oversight , standards, and regulation, AI is poised to be a benefit to society,  if it can be 
trusted and trustworthy. Trust is at the center of what STM and its members do, as our tagline 
“advancing trusted research” attests , and therefore STM’s members are perfectly positioned to help 
enable trusted and trustworthy AI.  The work that our members d o to support digital innovation, from 
the community’s early embrace  and stewardship  of digital forms of content , tagging and enriching it, 
creating ontologies, and even using AI to improve it, can be key enablers of a quality AI future . With our 
long experience with digital technologies , STM and its members stand ready to engage with the federal 
government in support of trust and integrity in these technologies.  
Respectfully submitted, 
Dr. Caroline Sutton  
CEO 
STM  
About STM  
At STM we support our members in their mission to advance trusted research worldwide. Our more 
than 140 members collectively publish 66% of all journal articles and tens of thousands of monographs 
and reference works.  As academic and professional publishe rs, learned societies, university presses, 
start -ups and established players, we work together to serve society by developing standards and 
technology to ensure research is of high quality, trustworthy and easy to access. We promote the 
contribution that p ublishers make to innovation, openness and the sharing of knowledge and embrace 
change to support the growth and sustainability of the research ecosystem. As a common good, we 
provide data and analysis for all involved in the global activity of research.   
The majority of  our members are small businesses and not -for-profit organizations, who represent tens 
of thousands of publishing employees, editors, reviewers, researchers, authors, readers, and other 
professionals across the United States and world who regularly contrib ute to the advancement of 
science, learning, culture and innovation throughout the nation. They comprise the bulk of a $25 billion 
publishing industry that contributes significantly to the U.S. economy and enhances the U.S. balance of 
trade.  


