PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: February 26, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 7m -274n-frv1
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-0994
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: William AI 
 Email
: 
General Comment
Issuing a stark warning about AI, Elon Musk had also suggested that the technology could pose a bigger threat to the world than a nuclear
war with North Korea. In the Twitter post, he had used an im age carrying the words – In the end, the m achines will win.
“Mark m y words, AI is far m ore dangerous than nukes…why do we have no regulatory oversight?”
The head of DOGE, Elon Musk says, "Mark m y works, AI is far m ore dangerous than nukes..why do we have no regulatory oversight?".
So keep that in m ind President Trum p.
Elon Musk also said this about AI, “I am  not norm ally an advocate of regulation and oversight…I think one should generally err on the
side of m inim izing those things…but this is a case where you have a very serious danger to the public.”
He called AI "a very serious danger to the public".
Elon Musk quote:
“I have exposure to the m ost cutting edge AI, and I think people should be really concerned by it…AI is a fundam ental risk to the
existence of hum an civilization in a way that car accidents, airplane crashes, faulty drugs or bad food were not — they were harm ful to a
set of individuals within society, of course, but they were not harm ful to society as a whole.”
He called AI, "a fundam ental risk to to the existance of hum an civilization".
The national science foundation will review this com m ent.
Another Elon Musk quote:
‘The biggest issue I see with so-called AI experts is that they think they know m ore than they do, and they think they are sm arter than they
actually are…This tends to plague sm art people. They define them selves by their intelligence and they don’t like the idea that a m achine
could be way sm arter than them , so they discount the idea — which is fundam entally flawed.”
Elon Musk said, "so-called Ai experts think they know m ore than they do and they think they are sm arter than they actually are."
Clearly Elon Musk thinks AI is a m assive threat.
Will the so-called experts ignore Elon Musk's warning and others?
Here is m y own suggestion President Trum p.


Add a fail safe AI KILL SWITCH to your action plan just in case this AI Powerhouse you are creating decides to take full control and
put us all at risk!
Elon Musk quote, "a fundam ental risk to the existance of hum an civilization".


Recom m endations for a More Balanced Approach:
Maintain Certain AI Regulations – A balanced regulatory fram ework that ensures safety without overburdening the private sector should
be considered.
Stronger AI Risk Managem ent & Accountability – Policies should include m andatory risk assessm ents for high-im pact AI system s, sim ilar
to global AI governance approaches (e.g., the EU AI Act).
Governm ent & Industry Collaboration – Public-private partnerships should be encouraged to ensure innovation aligns with ethical AI
developm ent and security standards.


