PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1678-8vbq
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7185
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Kevin Sigler 
General Comment
I just wanted to state very clearly that the Am erican governm ent SHOULD NOT UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES grant exem ptions
of fair use to tech com panies who wish to steal artists' hard work to feed into their own AI program s, like Microsoft and OpenAI. Their
are thousands of artists who work tirelessly, day in and day out, to create truly beautiful works and pieces of m edia that enrich the lives
and culture of everyday Am ericans, while also providing for them selves and their fam ilies. Now, Big Tech com panies wish to steal this
hard work, without the artists' consent, to feed into their AI program s and net them  m illions in profits with zero legal repercussions. This
would not only ruin the lives of thousands of hard working artists who could very well be put out of work by these AI program s, it would
also sully and disgrace the culture of the Am erican people by subjecting them  to grossly inferior m edia m ade by corporate entities that only
care about profits, rather that giving anything m eaningful back to the people. Artists deserve protection from  these corporations, like
OpenAI and Microsoft, and these corporations should not be given legal license to do whatever they want for the sake of profits. 
I just want to state m y opinion and possible solutions I've seen that I think could properly handle this dilem m a. Protect Am erican creators.
Do not create new copyright exem ptions that allow Big Tech com panies to exploit and steal from  creators and everyday Am ericans
without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency.
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech com panies, but rather on ensuring a fair
m arketplace with com petition:
First, the governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, so that they can decide when and where
their work is used by AI system s.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is
preserved. Their work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just
Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their
training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
Now, with our society going forward, their will be a place for AI. One of m y favorite works of art, the m ovie "Spider-Man: Into the
Spiderverse," actually did use AI to aid in its anim ation process. But, that was a carefully curated tool used by artists to help create their
film . But, generative AI, the kind being used by Microsoft and Open AI, is m uch m ore dangerous and m ust be very carefully controlled.
Corporations' profits SHOULD NOT have greater im portance than the livelihoods of hard-working artists and the lives and culture of the
Am erican people. Please, do the right thing and protect artists, NOT corporations.


