PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 13, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 87-kkor-dzfd
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1189
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Katy St. Clair  
General Comment
My nam e is Katy St. Clair and I am  a second sem ester senior at Avonworth High School. I studied generative AI and its im pact on
politics for two m onths in a course on AI and Ethics this year. From  m y research, I believe there should be m ore regulation when it com es
to generative AI. Using AI to prom ote a party ultim ately underm ines public trust in the governm ent. Civilians want to hear what real
people can do to help them  if elected. At-hom e generative AI system s such as Am azon Alexa or Google Hom e need to be regulated, and
m ultiple reports of bias have com e out regarding the devices' answers to som e political questions. This should not happen, the m achines
either need to decline to answer political inquiries or have a regulated list of proven facts they are allowed to discuss. During the 2024
election, President Donald J. Trum p reposted AI-generated photos to his m illions of followers on Twitter or X. The pictures showed a
popular celebrity at a Trum p rally wearing MAGA gear offering support to the candidate, however, it is incredibly m isleading to viewers,
especially those who m ay look up to the celebrity. It also is extrem ely unprofessional for a politician to blatantly post m isinform ation in any
situation no m atter the type of m edia. Tighter regulations are also needed on im age generation AI, ideally there should be certain words
and phrases that AI cannot recreate due to current political issues. This is because supporters of candidates use this AI to create fake,
m isleading, and vulgar im ages of other candidates. I feel that using AI in political cam paigns is a lie to the people of Am erica. 


