PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2y9a-pw4n
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8698
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
This fails to state any actual regulatory policy. However, it is an openly com m unist effort to claim  that the products of m ore than a hundred
years of Am erican creative labor belongs to the Am erican public as a whole and can be therefore used, without any form  of
com pensation, by these private com panies. Copyright protections are enshrined in laws in this country and Executive Actions have no
authority to sim ply strip those protections from  the Am erican public. This taking of the private property rights of m illions of Am ericans
com es from  no legal power of the Executive Branch granted by either the Constitution or an Act of Congress, but rather through illegal
efforts on behalf of a few m assive corporations who do not benefit the Am erican public in the sam e way that the m illions of Am ericans
who created these works being able to earn incom e - and thereby pay incom e TAX - would, nor does it place either the product of that
theft or the funds m ade by selling the end result of running this copyrighted work through an algorithm  which can only chop it up and feed
it back to us, into circulation for the benefit of the citizens of the United States. Instead, it allows com panies which are already the m ost
profitable in the history of the world to steal from  the pockets of United States citizens, selling the results of their theft back to the very
people and country responsible for the creation of their product in the first place - not to m ention to the rest of the world at a profit which
the Am erican public will never see a dim e of. If you are going to say that the work of Am erican creators is com m unal property, and that
AI developm ent is so im portant to national security and the wellbeing of the general public, why not sim ply fund such developm ent in the
form  of a publicly held corporation whose profits would go directly to the Am erican public? 
A large language m odel or visual art generator, absent the copyrighted work of hundreds of m illions of creative people, is a string of
worthless code. Am erican artists, writers, lawyers, business people, and others who created works which are protected by United States
Copyright law either when published - a word which includes the act of posting som ething on the internet - or when those individuals had
a reasonable expectation of privacy, such as when som eone has saved their work in private cloud storage servers which they pay to use
for their private business and personal docum ents have a right to benefit from  their hard work, not be undercut by a com m unist sentim ent
taken only so far as it benefits a few oligarchs and strips those people of what little wealth rem ains. To claim  that such rights are now the
property of the United States Governm ent and then for that governm ent, having declared that the property rights of individuals no longer
m atter and that they are COMMUNAL property, to choose to hand them  over to private com panies who aren't paying a dim e to either
the individuals or the com m unity (the governm ent) is an obviously illogical act. No governm ent actually seeking to protect the long-term
interests of either itself or its citizens would take this action.
The only explanation for com m unistic appropriation of wealth only to hand the end result to a few private entities is a corrupt effort to steal
from  the Am erican people the last true source of wealth that the average Am erican has any chance of accruing. Already, Am ericans work
m ore hours and days than a m edieval peasant, and m ore than a third of childless Am ericans say they do not have and will not have
children because they cannot afford to feed and house them . If this governm ent is so concerned about Am erican well being, and the US's
declining birth rate, m aybe stop trying to blatantly steal the few rem aining things that United States citizens actually own. Instead, they are
stealing from  not only authors and artists, but also from  lawyers, from  research scientists, and from  anyone else who is creating anything of
actual value, and handing that all to a few private entities who have 0 oversight, 0 regulation, and 0 obligation to do anything that benefits
anyone but their shareholders - a group which m ore and m ore is only those born into wealth, as no one can accum ulate wealth through
honest labor at the rates paid, or through intellectual labor as their work is stolen and fed into these m odels the instant it is created on
program s owned by a m ajor tech com pany, or saved to a cloud hosted by them . Rem oving this last source of both m otivation for
Am ericans to produce anything at all, and of potential wealth for the public at large, is a recipe for wide-spread suffering that in the end
benefits no one.
To say nothing of rem oving any attem pt to regulate the power use of these for profit com panies, which is also part of rem oving any
regulatory schem e intended to control or lim it the developm ent of "AI", a word with no definition and no clearly defined benefits for hum an


beings living on this planet.


