PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3fxr-x975
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9125
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Daniel Short  
General Comment
You will elim inate the jobs of thousands of people im portant to m illions m ore if you do this, effectively erasing them  from  the workforce
and forcing them  to work fast food and grocery bagging. You cannot do this, it is unethical and would kill all m y interest in video gam es.
Three video gam e voice actors have helped m e through life and if you elim inate their jobs, you worsen m y anxiety and depression to the
point where I, and m illions like m yself, will com m it suicide. Are you truly that heartless? Punish OpenAI, it is not Am erica's future, it is an
organization of pure evil that will destroy the integrity of art nationwide, if not worldwide. The entire entertainm ent industry will collapse
and becom e useless. Of course, you just want that so you can replace all art with ass-kissing propaganda, thus com pleting our
transform ation into Nazis. That's what you want, isn't it? No kindness, no com passion, just m indless worship of a m orbidly obese
dem entia patient who is raping our Constitution and inflicting Hitler and Stalin policies upon this once-precious country. You just want the
population of the United States to be zealots who believe the Earth is only 10,000 years old, that there were no dinosaurs and that
suffering m inorities deserve to be elim inated. Sham e on you all! If you pull this switch, I will support foreign countries' desire to m ilitarily
destroy the United States and turn it into a sm oldering crater as the population starves to death and cannibalizes in the ruins and unlike
World War II Japan, there will be no rebuild! Just extinction! It is im possible to call you hum an when you lack hum anity! If you let
OpenAI have unfettered use, I will be praying for your deaths and the deaths of this whole country every night! You will not deserve to
live, but to be beaten within an inch of your lives as you beg for m ercy, which will never com e, only endless suffering! The United States
could teach Hell how to be worse than it is if you enable the firings of video gam e voice actors! You should be asham ed of yourselves and
you need to interact with actual hum an beings this will affect. Sham e on you, call your parents.


