PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-35yg-qbxy
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9196
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: William Tritz 
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Untitled docum ent


March 14, 2025
From:
Will Tritz
Artist and Creator
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for In formation o n the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) A ction Plan
I am a n everyday American who owns a small visual design business which serves clients in the 
entertainment industry. I have worked h ard for ye ars to develop the skills and knowledge to 
build m y business, and have been lucky enough to make a d ecent living a nd su pport my family 
– until recently.
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to 
destr oy thousands of American small businesses like mine with their recent demand to create 
specia l carve outs in copyright law.
AI systems can o nly be produced b y first training on work made by people. M y unique wo rk, and 
the wo rk of hundreds of thousands of other e veryday American cr eators was taken and fe d into 
these AI systems without our co nsen t or any compensation. They inge st our work, reassemble 
it, and then se ll it back to o ur clie nts – directly competing with us and cu tting us out of the 
marketplace.
Now these Big Tech companies are a sking this administration to create excep tions and 
loopholes to m ake th is practice of stealing A merican cr eators’ copyrighte d work legal precedent. 
They are suggesting th at if a machine in gests and reproduce s copyrighted wo rk, it is somehow 
suddenly “fa ir use”.
They seem to believe that anything and everything o n the internet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration d oes not allow them to 
rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have th e opposite effect. The purpose of American copyrigh t law is to protect the 
incentive to create a nd innovate .
If we the American p eople d o not own our creations, and everything we p ut online will be sto len 
by Big Tech g iants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new 
innovative piece o f computer co de, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it 


immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will 
we possibly make a living doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday 
Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
    First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective 
consent, so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
    Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the 
incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic value, 
so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech.
    Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, requiring 
them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI 
generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard 
work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright 
law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


