PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-y8fg-3d4f
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4887
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Calvin Jones  
General Comment
I am  not in any way convinced that AI represents in any way a econom ic or technological advantage, especially not generative ai which
extrem ely inefficiently creates worse copies of extant works, often stolen without the com pensation or perm ission of the original creators.
What you’re asking for here is to strip what little rights these creators even have, to defend them selves when their work is stolen and
copied, to m ake inferior works without paying anyone involved. No am ount of data fed to this m achine will suddenly m ake it turn a profit,
useful for anything besides trying to dodge actually paying som eone for the labor necessary to write or m ake art. Loosening any of these
protections is a vile action taken to try and keep the AI investm ent bubble alive long enough to squeeze whatever m oney can be before
it’s burst, and that’s not nearly a good enough reason. The payoff to this is incredibly unlikely and m inuscule, blown up way out of
proportion by people who have invested an inordinate sum  of m oney who profit the m ore it is bought into, the risk is destroying the
already perilous careers of artists, authors, and journalists, in exchange for worse m aterial no one went to the trouble of creating. I cannot
overem phasize how poorly conceived an idea this is. The situation is already extrem ely bad for creators to protect the rights to their
works, with nearly every platform  if swarm ing with ai scraping software. What is needed are better protections, tighter restrictions, so to
instead just tear what little exists away? An unhinged conclusion, com pletely devoid of any connection to reality.


