PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-byi0-yxly
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1879
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Jobs for the Future
General Comment
Jobs for the Future (JFF) is pleased to subm it a response to the National Science Foundation's Request for Inform ation on the
Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan.
As AI continues to transform  the workforce and econom y, we appreciate the opportunity to share insights and recom m endations on AI-
driven policies that can help build a highly skilled workforce, expand econom ic opportunity for Am erican workers, and enhance the
growth and global com petitiveness of U.S. businesses.
Please find our response attached for your review. We welcom e the opportunity to engage further and look forward to continued
collaboration on this critical issue.
Attachments
RFI AI Action Plan_JFF Response
RFI AI Action Plan_JFF Response 3.25
RFI AI Action Plan_JFF


AI Action Plan 
Faisal D’Souza, NCO 
2415 Eisenhower Avenu e 
Alexandria VA 22314 
RE: OSTP and NITRD NCO AI Action Plan For over 40 years, JFF has been dedicated to advancing education and workforce system 
reforms that drive stronger economic outcomes for American learners and workers. To 
make a bolder commitment to our mission, in 2023 JFF announced a new North Star – 
statin g that 75 million Americans who are currently underemployed or unemployed will be 
in good jobs by 2030.  
We believe artificial intelligence (AI) holds extraordinary potential to help us reach this 
goal: creating and transforming jobs, revolutionizing our economy, expanding opportunities, and  building a world where everyone can build livelihoods and thrive.  To 
realize this vision, workers and learners  should have  a seat at the table to shape AI’s 
development and use.   
JFF’s Center for Artificial Intelligence and the Future of Work is committed to ensuring that 
AI serves as a tool for expanding access to employment and strong economic outcomes. The Center for AI focuses on three key areas :  
•How AI is Reshaping Jobs: Preparing employers, jobseekers, and the institutions
serving them to understand how AI will reshape occupations across sectors and
reimagine training pathways, supports, and upskilling strategies, especially foroccupations that do not require a bachelor’s degree.
•Emerging AI Use Cases and Solutions for the Future of Work and Learning:Mapping and supporting rapid validation and adoption of the most promising AI-powered use cases and platforms for the future of work and learning, fromfoundational AI literacy to personalized coaching and tutoring tools to next-generation assessments to skills-first hiring and talent mobility.
•Implications for Policy, Practice, and Resources: Catalyzing sustainable policy,
practice, and investment in solutions that drive economic opportunity.
As a result, we are pleased to respond to the OSTP and NITRD NCO Request for 
Information on the development of a national AI Action Plan.  


2 KEY CONSIDERATIONS FOR THE AI ACTION PLAN 
New results from a forthcoming survey commissioned by JFF and conducted by 
AudienceNe t indicate that while interest in and use of AI are growing in learning, at work, 
and for career advancement, notable challenges  remain: 
•AI adoption is accelerating – 35% of respondents use AI at work (up from 8% in
2023), and 57% report AI integration in education (up from 13% in 2023).
•AI tools are shaping work experience s – 36% of respondents report they currently
use AI tools at work, noting they make tasks more efficient and productive.
Respondents also said AI tools reduce repetitive tasks (29%) and make jobs moreinteresting and engaging (26%).
•Access  remains a challeng e – Many workers and learners engage with AI
independently and of their own volitio n rather than through employer- or institution -
led initiatives. 56% of workers said they  don’ t feel prepared to use AI in their work.
•AI-driven career shifts are underway –19% of respondents said they are actively
pursuing different careers or considering changing plans in the near futur e (12%)
due to AI-driven transformation.
•Entrepreneurship opportunities are emergin g – 8% of respondents use AI tools to
start or grow businesses.
•Top skills in deman d – Problem-solving abilities, adaptability, and creativity and
innovation  are respondents’ most cited skills needed for the AI era.
Additiona l insights from JFF and the Center for AI point to opportunities and challenges 
within America’s workforce and education systems, including:   
•The need to better understand and prepare workers for AI’s potential impact on
jobs across the econom y. JFF’s AI-Ready Workforce framework found that AI—
especially generative AI—has the potential to augment durable skills such as
communication, critical thinking, and  relationship-building in ways that make
human workers even more effective, without replacing the need for human-to-
human interaction. This dynamic makes it more important over time for workers tosharpen these capabilities, and to  design future jobs and training programs
to capitalize on these durable skills . However, while training providers we’ve spoken
with recognized the importance of human and professional skills for an AI-
transformed future of work, they are finding it challenging to systematically incorporate these skills, with barriers including assessments, time limitations, and 
scope. The remarkable growth in AI makes shaping technology/human partnerships 
especially urgent.   
•AI adoption across the education and workforce ecosystem needs to
accelerat e. While JFF has found promising use cases for  generative AI in workforce
development, gaps exist, including for tools to support skill assessment, the
development of social capital through networking and peer relationships, andresource navigation. Educational institutions are shouldering some of the biggest AI


3 challenges of any sector, navigating academic integrity; faculty, staff, and student 
upskilling; innovations in pedagogy, student supports, and administrative efficiencies; curriculum review and approval processes; reimagining career education and supports for the future of work; and digital transformation and change management, all in a moment of declining enrollments and constrained 
funding.  Postsecondary training providers we’ve connected with recognize the 
importance of internal AI adoption to elevate both organizational efficiency and 
learner support, but most are just beginning implementation. Finally,  AI-driven 
assessments and  verifiable credentials wallets can help individuals document and 
credential skills gained through community programs or workplace experiences, 
making these learning pathways more visible and valuable in the labor market—and 
while workers find digital wallets and credentials helpful, their use is not yet 
widespread. 
•Access to inadequate  labor market  information: AI-powered career tools have
the potential to level the playing field by making labor market insights moreaccessible. But both public and real-time labor market data sources are limited  in
their timeliness, accuracy, and ability to identify emerging shifts. As a result, fewAmericans have the information they need to make informed choices about theircareers. For example, only 26% of parents surveyed by JFF think their high schooler s
are “very” prepared for their post-high school education and career transitio n and
only 20% of recent graduates of public four-year institutions said they received
quality education -to-career coaching. It’s clear not only the data but the tools used
to convey this  career information to the public need to be enhanced and addressed
to inform the public on high-growth opportunities and the skills needed to accessthose jobs.
•Significantly expanding AI literacy. Not only do individual s need a way to
demonstrate skills, but they also need to be constantl y upskilling to ensure they
have basic skills to operate in an AI -infused and technologically advanced
economy. While efforts to scale AI literacy training are growing, there’s still much
more to do to ensure those efforts reach everyone. For example, an internal JFF
analysis of the five most popular AI literacy tools found that many commoncurricula are written at a grade 11 reading level —putting them out of reach for many
adult learner s. And while 77% of workers and jobseekers in JFF’s survey said they
believe AI would have an impact on the job or career they expected to have in thenext three to five years, only 31% of workers said their employers offered training ongeneral AI fundamentals, or how to use specific AI tools and systems or both.
JFF’S RECOMMENDATIONS 
To address  thes e challenges and  ensure that AI fuels greater economic prospects for 
American workers and businesses,  JFF recommends the following key actions :  
1)Establish an AI Center of Excellence. The Administration should create adedicated federal research hub to analyze AI’s workforce impact and identify best


4 practices for integrating AI and these insights into education, workplaces, and job 
training. This Center should convene interdisciplinary experts to improve labor market insights and AI policy responses, conduct, coordinate, and amplify research on the unique value of human skills, capabilities, and work as distinct from that of machines, and share best practices and technical assistance with businesses and workforce leaders to help fuel human-driven growt h. 
2)Launch a Digital Transformation Fund. This digital transformation fund wouldincentivize system modernization by encouraging states to adopt AI and relatedtechnologically advanced tools to support their state education and workforceinfrastructur e, such as throug h pilots, best-practice resources, maturity models,
communities of practice, pro bono technical advisement such as through rotationalfellowships for early-career AI technologists, and knowledge exchange with trustedvendor communities. This transformation to a more digitally inclined public sectorwill prioritize AI-infused service deliver y across federal and state programs; create
AI-powered career navigation tools that are validated and widely accessible and
ensure AI tools for hiring and credentialing  position all workers and learners for
economic mobility.
3)Strengthen Workforce Data. To do any of this work well,  especially career
navigation and advisement, the Administration’s A I Plan must have a focus on
improving real-time labor market data to track AI-driven job trends. The
Administration should identif y gaps in public workforce datasets and invest in the
creation and/or curation of transparent, high-quality, representative data and public
data infrastructure that is accessible to all, including exploring novel approaches
and ensuring data integrity and privacy protections.  This will mean adequateresources for public data collection while also working more closely with industry toensure information is employer-informed and responsive to the changing needs ofindustry.
4)Expand AI Literacy & Skills Trainin g. It is clear  most American workers will need
additiona l upskilling to develop the competencies to succeed in an AI -fueled
economy. In response, the Administration must champion AI literacy  training, from
K-12 into the workforce, positioning workers and learners to be responsible users,managers, and creators of AI. This A I Plan should also prioritize the development of
additiona l future-ready skills that will be essential to capitalize on opportunities
afforded by AI, such as  the durable skills discussed above, entrepreneurship, and
data literacy.  It should promote skill development initiatives, includin g employer
incentives for AI training and workforce upskilling, professional development in AIcompetency training for public sector employees, including educators, andworkforce organizations and greater  support fo r entrepreneurs in leveraging AI to
build businesses, create jobs, and generate wealth. Lastly, as an immediate step,the Administration should work with Congress to pass the Digital Skills for Today’sWorkforce Act to scale generative AI trainin g. This legislation can be leveraged to
support the Administration’s AI Plan and create aligning  priorities between the
Executive and Legislative branches of government.


5 CONCLUSION 
JFF urges the Administration to prioritize AI-driven policies that expand economic 
opportunity, ensuring that workers, learners, and businesses can thrive in the AI-powered future.  
We welcome the opportunity to collaborate on strategies to unlock the full potential of AI 
for American economic opportunity, growth, and competitiveness. For further discussion, please contact Karishma Merchant, Associate Vice President of Polic y and Advocacy, at 
 and Alex Swartsel, Managing Director of the Insights practice, JFFLab s 
at 
Thank you for considering our response. We look forward to working together to shape an 
AI economy that benefits all. 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential 
information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution.  


AI Action Plan 
Faisal D’Souza, NCO 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria VA 
22314 
RE: OSTP and NITRD NCO AI Action Plan  
For over 40 years, JFF has been dedicated to advancing education and workforce 
system reforms that drive stronger economic outcomes for American learners and 
workers. To make a bolder commitment to our mission, in 2023 JFF announced a new 
North Star – stating that 75 million Americans who are currently underemployed or 
unemployed will be in good jobs by 2030. 
We believe artificial intelligence (AI) holds extraordinary potential to help us reach this 
goal: creating and transforming jobs, revolutionizing our economy, expanding 
opportunities, and building a world where everyone can build livelihoods and thrive.  To 
realize this vision, workers and learners should have a seat at the table to shape AI’s 
development and use. 
JFF’s Center for Artificial Intelligence and the Future of Work is committed to ensuring 
that AI serves as a tool for expanding access to employment and strong economic 
outcomes. The Center for AI focuses on three key areas: 
•How AI is Reshaping Jobs : Preparing employers, jobseekers, and the
institutions serving them to understand how AI will reshape occupations across
sectors and reimagine training pathways, supports, and upskilling strategies,
especially for occupations that do not require a bachelor’s degree.
•Emerging AI Use Cases and Solutions for the Future of Work and
Learning : Mapping and supporting rapid validation and adoption of the most
promising AI powered use cases and platforms for the future of work and
learning, from foundational AI literacy to personalized coaching and tutoring tools
to next generation assessments to skills-first hiring and talent mobility.
•Implications for Policy, Practice, and Resources:  Catalyzing
sustainable policy, practice, and investment in solutions that drive economic
opportunity.
As a result, we are pleased to respond to the OSTP and NITRD NCO Request for 
Information on the development of a national AI Action Plan. 


KEY CONSIDERATIONS FOR THE AI ACTION PLAN  
New results from a forthcoming survey commissioned by JFF and conducted by 
AudienceNet indicate that while interest in and use of AI are growing in learning, at 
work, and for career advancement, notable challenges remain: 
•AI adoption is accelerating  – 35% of respondents use AI at work (up from
8% in 2023), and 57% report AI integration in education (up from 13% in 2023).
•AI tools are shaping work experiences  – 36% of respondents report
they currently use AI tools at work, noting they make tasks more efficient and
productive. Respondents also said AI tools reduce repetitive tasks (29%) and
make jobs more interesting and engaging (26%).
•Access remains a challenge  – Many workers and learners engage with AI
independently and of their own volition rather than through employer- or
institution led initiatives. 56% of workers said they don’t feel prepared to use AI in
their work.
•AI-driven career shifts are underway  –19% of respondents said they are
actively pursuing different careers or considering changing plans in the near
future (12%) due to AI-driven transformation.
•Entrepreneurship opportunities are emerging  – 8% of respondents
use AI tools to start or grow businesses.
•Top skills in demand  – Problem-solving abilities, adaptability, and creativity
and innovation are respondents’ most cited skills needed for the AI era.
Additional insights from JFF and the Center for AI point to opportunities and challenges 
within America’s workforce and education systems, including: 
•The need to better understand and prepare workers for AI’s
potential impact on jobs across the economy . JFF’s  AI   -   Ready  
Workforce  framework found that AI— especially generative AI—has the potential
to augment durable skills such as communication, critical thinking, and
relationship-building in ways that make human  workers even more effective,
without replacing the need for human to human interaction. This dynamic makes
it more  important over  time for workers to sharpen these capabilities, and to
design future jobs and training programs to  capitalize on these durable skills.
However, while  training providers we’ve spoken  with recognized the importance
of human and professional skills for an AI transformed future of work, they are
finding it challenging to systematically incorporate these skills, with barriers
including assessments, time limitations, and scope. The remarkable growth in AI
makes shaping technology/human partnerships especially urgent.
•AI adoption across the education and workforce ecosystem
needs to accelerate . While JFF has found promising  use cases for  
generative AI in workforce  development , gaps exist, including for tools to support
 2


skill assessment, the development of social capital through networking and peer 
relationships, and resource navigation. Educational institutions are shouldering 
some of the biggest AI challenges of any sector, navigating academic integrity; 
faculty, staff, and student upskilling; innovations in pedagogy, student supports, 
and administrative efficiencies; curriculum review and approval processes; 
reimagining career education and supports for the future of work; and digital 
transformation and change management, all in a moment of declining 
enrollments and constrained funding.  Postsecondary training providers we’ve 
connected with  recognize the importance of internal AI adoption to elevate both 
organizational efficiency and learner support, but most are just beginning 
implementation. Finally, AI-driven  assessments  and verifiable credentials wallets  
can help individuals document and credential skills gained through community 
programs or workplace experiences, making these learning pathways more 
visible and valuable in the labor market —and 
while workers find digital wallets and credentials helpful, their use is not yet
widespread  .    
•Access to inadequate labor market information : AI-powered career
tools have the potential to level the playing field by making labor market insights
more accessible. But both public and real-time labor market data sources are
limited  in their timeliness, accuracy, and ability to identify emerging shifts. As a
result, few Americans have the information they need to make informed choices
about their careers. For example,  o   nly 26% of parents   surveyed by JFF think
their high schoolers are “very” prepared for their post-high school education and
career transition and only  20% of recent graduates  of public four-year institutions
said they received quality education-to-career coaching. It’s clear not only the
data but the tools used to convey this career information to the public need to be
enhanced and addressed to inform the public on high-growth opportunities and
the skills needed to access those jobs.
•Significantly expanding AI literacy. Not only do individuals need a way to
demonstrate skills, but they also need to be constantly upskilling to ensure they
have basic skills to operate in an AI-infused and technologically advanced
economy. While efforts to scale AI literacy training are growing, there’s still  much
more to d   o    to ensure those efforts reach everyone. For example, an internal JFF
analysis of the five most popular AI literacy tools found that many common
curricula are written at a grade 11 reading level—putting them  out of reach for
many  adult learners . And while 77% of workers and jobseekers in JFF’s survey
said they believe AI would have an impact on the job or career they expected to
have in the next three to five years, only 31% of workers said their employers
offered training on general AI fundamentals, or how to use specific AI tools and
systems or both.
JFF’S RECOMMENDATIONS  
To address these challenges and ensure that AI fuels greater economic prospects for 
American workers and businesses, JFF recommends the following key actions: 
 3


1)Establish an AI Center of Excellence. The Administration should create
a dedicated federal research hub to analyze AI’s workforce impact and identify
best practices for integrating AI and these insights into education, workplaces,
and job training. This Center should convene interdisciplinary experts to improve
labor market insights and AI policy responses, conduct, coordinate, and amplify
research on the unique value of human skills, capabilities, and work  as distinct
from that of machines, and share best practices and technical assistance with
businesses and workforce leaders to help fuel human-driven growth.
2)Launch a Digital Transformation Fund. This digital transformation fund
would incentivize system modernization by encouraging states to adopt AI and
related technologically advanced tools to support their state education and
workforce infrastructure, such as through pilots, best-practice resources, maturity
models, communities of practice, pro bono technical advisement such as through
rotational fellowships for early-career AI technologists, and knowledge exchange
with trusted vendor communities. This transformation to a more digitally inclined
public sector will prioritize AI-infused service delivery across federal and state
programs; create AI-powered career navigation tools that are validated and
widely accessible and ensure AI tools for hiring and credentialing position all
workers and learners for economic mobility.
3)Strengthen Workforce Data. To do any of this work well, especially career
navigation and advisement, the Administration’s AI Plan must have a focus on
improving real-time labor market data to track AI-driven job trends. The
Administration should identify gaps in public workforce datasets and invest in the
creation and/or curation of transparent, high-quality, representative data and
public data infrastructure that is accessible to all, including  exploring novel
approaches  and ensuring data integrity and privacy protections.  This will mean
adequate resources for public data collection while also working more closely
with industry to ensure information is employer-informed and responsive to the
changing needs of industry.
4)Expand AI Literacy & Skills Training. It is clear most American workers
will need additional upskilling to develop the competencies to succeed in an AI-
fueled economy. In response, the Administration must champion AI literacy
training, from K-12 into the workforce, positioning workers and learners to be
responsible users, managers, and creators of AI. This AI Plan should also
prioritize the development of additional future-ready skills that will be essential to
capitalize on opportunities afforded by AI, such as the durable skills discussed
above, entrepreneurship, and data literacy. It should promote skill development
initiatives, including employer incentives for AI training and workforce upskilling,
professional development in AI competency training for public sector employees,
including educators, and workforce organizations and greater support for
entrepreneurs in leveraging AI to build businesses, create jobs, and generate
wealth. Lastly, as an immediate step, the Administration should work with
Congress to pass the Digital Skills for Today’s Workforce Act to scale generative
AI training. This legislation can be leveraged to support the Administration’s AI
Plan and create aligning priorities between the Executive and Legislative
branches of government.
 4


CONCLUSION  
JFF urges the Administration to prioritize AI-driven policies that expand economic 
opportunity, ensuring that workers, learners, and businesses can thrive in the AI-
powered future. 
We welcome the opportunity to collaborate on strategies to unlock the full potential of AI 
for American economic opportunity, growth, and competitiveness. For further discussion, 
please contact Karishma Merchant, Associate Vice President of Policy and Advocacy, at 
 and Alex Swartsel, Managing Director of the Insights practice, 
JFFLabs at  
Thank you for considering our response. We look forward to working together to shape 
an AI economy that benefits all. 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential 
information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution. 
 5


AI Ac%on Plan  
Faisal D’Souza, NCO  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria VA  
22314  
RE: OSTP and NITRD NCO AI Action Plan  
For over 40 years, JFF has been dedicated to advancing education and workforce system 
reforms that drive stronger economic outcomes for American learners and workers. To 
make a bolder commitment to our mission, in 2023 JFF announced a new North Star – 
stat ing that 75 million Americans who are currently underemployed or unemployed will be 
in good jobs by 2030.   
We believe artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) holds extraordinary potential to help us reach this goal: 
creating and transforming jobs, revolutionizing our economy, expanding opportunities, and 
building a world where everyone can build livelihoods and thrive.  T o realize this vision, 
workers and learners should have a seat at the table to shape AI’s development and use.    
JFF’s Center for Artiﬁcial Intelligence and the Future of Work is committed to ensuring that 
AI serves as a tool for expanding access to employment and strong economic outcomes. 
The Center for AI focuses on three key areas:   
•How AI is Reshaping Jobs : Preparing employers, jobseekers, and the institutions
serving them to understand how AI will reshape occupations across sectors and
reimagine training pathways, supports, and upskilling strategies, especially for
occupations that do not require a bachelo r’s degree.
•Emerging AI Use Cases and Solutions for the Future of Work and Learning :
Mapping and supporting rapid validation and adoption of the most promising AI
powered use cases and platforms for the future of work and learning, from
foundational AI literacy to personalized coaching and tutoring tools to next
generation assessments to skills -ﬁrst hiring and talent mobility.
•Implications for Policy, Practice, and Resources:  Catalyzing sustainable policy,
practice, and investment in solutions that drive economic opportunity.
As a result, we are pleased to respond to the OSTP and NITRD NCO Request for Information 
on the development of a national AI Action Plan.   


      
  
2 
    
  
  
KEY CONSIDERATIONS FOR THE AI ACTION PLAN    
New results from a forthcoming survey commissioned by JFF and conducted by 
AudienceNet indicate that while interest in and use of AI are growing in learning, at work, 
and for career advancement, notable challenges remain:   
   
• AI adoption is accelerating  – 35% of respondents use AI at work (up from 8% in 
2023), and 57% report AI integration in education (up from 13% in 2023).   
• AI tools are shaping work experiences  – 36% of respondents report they currently 
use AI tools at work, noting they make tasks more e_icient and productive. 
Respondents also said AI tools reduce repetitive tasks (29%) and make jobs more 
interesting and engaging (26%).   
• Access remains a challenge  – Many workers and learners engage with AI 
independently and of their own volition rather than through employer - or institution  
led initiatives. 56% of workers said they don’t feel prepared to use AI in their work.   
• AI-driven career shifts are underway  –19% of respondents said they are actively 
pursuing di_erent careers or considering changing plans in the near future (12%) 
due to AI -driven transformation.   
• Entrepreneurship opportunities are emerging  – 8% of respondents use AI tools to 
start or grow businesses.   
• Top skills in demand  – Problem -solving abilities, adaptability, and creativity and 
innovation are respondents’ most cited skills needed for the AI era.   
   
Additional insights from JFF and the Center for AI point to opportunities and challenges 
within America’s workforce and education systems, including:     
   
• The need to better understand and prepare workers for AI’s potential impact on 
jobs across the economy . JFF’s  AI-Ready Workforce  framework found that AI — 
especially generative AI —has the potential to  augment durable skills such as 
communication, critical thinking, and  relationship -building in ways that make 
human  workers even more e_ective, without replacing the need for human  to 
human  interaction. This dynamic makes it more  important over  time for workers to 
sharpen these capabilities, and to  design future jobs and training programs 
to capitalize on these durable skills. However, while  training providers we’ve spoken  
with  recognized the importance of human and professional skills for an AI  
transformed future of work, they are ﬁnding it challenging to systematically 
incorporate these skills, with barriers including assessments, time limitations, and 
scope. The remarkable growth in AI makes shaping technology/human partnerships 
especially urge nt.    


      
  
3 
  • AI adoption across the education and workforce ecosystem needs to 
accelerate . While JFF has found promising  use cases for  generative AI in workforce  
development , gaps exist, including for tools to support skill assessment, the 
development of social capital through networking and peer relationships, and 
resource navigation. Educational institutions are shouldering some of the biggest AI 
challenges of any sector, na vigating academic integrity; faculty, sta_, and student 
upskilling; innovations in pedagogy, student supports, and administrative 
e_iciencies; curriculum review and approval processes; reimagining career 
education and supports for the future of work; and  digital transformation and 
change management, all in a moment of declining enrollments and constrained 
funding.  Postsecondary training providers we’ve connected with  recognize the 
importance of internal AI adoption to elevate both organizational e_iciency and 
learner support, but most are just beginning implementation. Finally, AI-driven  
assessments  and  veriﬁable credentials wallets  can help individuals document and 
credential skills gained through community programs or workplace experiences, 
making these learning pathways more visible and valuable in the labor market —and   
while workers ﬁnd digital wallets and credentials helpful, their use is not yet  
widespread .    
• Access to inadequate labor market information : AI-powered career tools have the 
potential to level the playing ﬁeld by making labor market insights more accessible. 
But both public and real -time labor market data sources are  limited  in their 
timeliness, accuracy, and ability to identify emerging shifts. As a result, few 
Americans have the information they need to make informed choices about their 
careers. For example,  only 26% of parents  surveyed by JFF think their high schoolers 
are “very” prepared for their post -high school education and career transition and 
only  20% of recent graduates  of public four -year institutions said they received 
quality education -to-career coaching. It’s clear not only the data but the tools used 
to convey this career information to the public need to be enhanced and addressed 
to inform the public on high -growth opportunities and the skills needed to access 
those jobs.  
• Signiﬁcantly expanding AI literacy. Not only do individuals need a way to 
demonstrate skills, but they also need to be constantly upskilling to ensure they 
have basic skills to operate in an AI -infused and technologically advanced economy. 
While e_orts to scale AI literacy training are grow ing, there’s still  much  more to d o to 
ensure those e_orts reach everyone. For example, an internal JFF analysis of the ﬁve 
most popular AI literacy tools found that many common curricula are written at a 
grade 11 reading level —putting them  out of reach for many  adult learners . And while 
77% of workers and jobseekers in JFF’s survey said they believe AI would have an 
impact on the job or career they expected to have in the next three to ﬁve years, only 
31% of workers said their employers o_ered training on general AI fundament als, or 
how to use speciﬁc AI tools and systems or both.    
   


      
  
4 
  JFF’S RECOMMENDATIONS    
To address these challenges and ensure that AI fuels greater economic prospects for 
American workers and businesses, JFF recommends the following key actions:   
  
1) Establish an AI Center of Excellence. The Administration should create a 
dedicated federal research hub to analyze AI’s workforce impact and identify best 
practices for integrating AI and these insights into education, workplaces, and job 
training. This Center should convene interdisciplinary experts to improve labor 
market insights and AI policy responses, conduct, coordinate, and amplify research 
on the unique value of human skills, capabilities, and work  as distinct from that of 
machines, and share best practices and technical assistance with businesses and 
workforce leaders to help fuel human -driven growth.   
2) Launch a Digital Transformation Fund. This digital transformation fund would 
incentivize system modernization by encouraging states to adopt AI and related 
technologically advanced tools to support their state education and workforce 
infrastructure, such as through pilots, best -practice resour ces, maturity models, 
communities of practice, pro bono technical advisement such as through rotational 
fellowships for early -career AI technologists, and knowledge exchange with trusted 
vendor communities. This transf ormation to a more digitally inclined public sector 
will prioritize AI -infused service delivery across federal and state programs; create 
AI-powered career navigation tools that are validated and widely accessible and 
ensure AI tools for hiring and credent ialing position all workers and learners for 
economic mobility.   
3) Strengthen Workforce Data. To do any of this work well, especially career 
navigation and advisement, the Administration’s AI Plan must have a focus on 
improving real -time labor market data to track AI -driven job trends. The  
Administration should identify gaps in public workforce datasets and invest in the 
creation and/or curation of transparent, high -quality, representative data and public 
data infrastructure that is accessible to all, including  exploring novel approaches  
and ensuring data integrity and privacy protections.  This will mean adequate 
resources for public data collection while also working more closely with industry to 
ensure information is employer -informed and responsive to the changing needs of 
industry.    
4) Expand AI Literacy & Skills Training. It is clear most American workers will need 
additional upskilling to develop the competencies to succeed in an AI -fueled 
economy. In response, the Administration must champion AI literacy training, from 
K-12 into the workforce, positioning workers and lear ners to be responsible users, 
managers, and creators of AI. This AI Plan should also prioritize the development of 
additional future -ready skills that will be essential to capitalize on opportunities 
a_orded by AI, su ch as the durable skills discussed above, entrepreneurship, and 
data literacy. It should promote skill development initiatives, including employer 
incentives for AI training and workforce upskilling, professional development in AI 


      
  
5 
  competency training for public sector employees, including educators, and 
workforce organizations and greater support for entrepreneurs in leveraging AI to 
build businesses, create jobs, and generate wealth. Lastly, as an immediate step, 
the Administration  should work with Congress to pass the Digital Skills for Today’s 
Workforce Act to scale generative AI training. This legislation can be leveraged to 
support the Administration’s AI Plan and create aligning priorities between the 
Executive and Legislative branches of government.   
 
CONCLUSION    
JFF urges the Administration to prioritize AI -driven policies that expand economic 
opportunity, ensuring that workers, learners, and businesses can thrive in the AI -powered 
future.   
  
We welcome the opportunity to collaborate on strategies to unlock the full potential of AI 
for American economic opportunity, growth, and competitiveness. For further discussion, 
please contact Karishma Merchant, Associate Vice President of Policy and Advo cacy, at 
and Alex Swartsel, Managing Director of the Insights practice, JFFLabs 
at     
  
Thank you for considering our response. We look forward to working together to shape an AI 
economy that beneﬁts all.   
  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential 
information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution.   


