PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1u98-7tm g
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7783
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I am  an Am erican who, although currently does not have a career in the fields of art and video gam e developm ent, has dream s of entering
one of those fields som eday, once I feel that I am  financially secure enough to do so.
AI system s that dem and special exem ption from  copyright laws to generate such things explicitly threaten m y and others ability to
accom plish those dream s, as well as the livelihoods of Am ericans who already have the skills necessary to work in creative fields, by the
adm ission of the corporations sell such program s. This is the result of these AI system s taking the works of such Am ericans without their
consent or giving com pensation, and then selling those works to the very clients of these hard working Am ericans, cutting Am erican
creatives and businesses out of an industry that they have spent their lives building their skills in.
To create such loopholes that Big Tech com panies ask for would go against the purpose of fair use laws as a m eans protecting innovation
and creativity in hard working Am ericans, and accom plish nothing other than reducing the am ount of jobs available to the Am erican
people, especially to those who are not fit for serving in the m ilitary. It would also prevent young Am ericans who have yet to even have
the chance to purse those fields but are too old to gain skills in other fields from  finding work, doom ing them  to a life of debt and poverty.
On top of these negative effects on the livelihoods of num erous Am ericans, it would also have devastating effects on the environm ent and
on society, such as the m assive energy and water requirem ents to keep the devices that these AI system s require to operate, or the ability
to create and spread false inform ation, which is especially dangerous in the world of politics.
Also, I do not give anyone perm ission to feed m y com m ent into an AI database or program . I just want to m ake art.


