PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-wjby-xepk
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3926
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Andrew Heinze 
General Comment
I am  an artist in the online creative 2d space, and have been a digital artist both as a livelihood and as a hobbyist for over ten years. To
sum  up m y feelings on this policy would be this: Generative AI does not and should not have an unregulated future in the United States.
Generative AI is both unethical, and dam aging to not only the m edium  as a whole, but harm ful towards the real, hum an artists in Am erica.
AI m odels train on artist's works with no sort of consent, acknowledgm ent, or perm ission from  the artists who create these works. It
takes years to develop the skills, talent, and knowledge to create the art that these com panies then take inappropriately to create their AI
m odels. 
AI m odels that would not exist without real hum an art to steal from .
The end goal of Generative AI is to phase out real working artists with inferior work based off of their own stolen creations and then profit
from  it. This technology threatens the livelihood of every single artist in our country and only furthers the loss of creative talent, and high
quality art being m ade in our society as m odels like these replace work, jobs, passionate people who work hard and want to share their
art with the world. 
In addition to elim inating jobs and opportunities for real Am erican artists, generative AI as a technology is by design finite, flawed, and
lim ited. This technology -cannot- create som ething new from  nothing, it is com pletely reliant on the art it takes from . 
Generative AI, as a concept and execution, is physically unable to create art that does not already exist in som e form  in it's database. I am
not ignorant to this technology and have experienced firsthand the staggering lim itations of it's ability and application, som ething that easing
the restrictions and regulations of which -would not solve-.
I write in today to express with overwhelm ing urgency to say that as an artist, and on behalf of all m y constituents that will be
disenfranchised by the dysregulation of AI in Am erica: Protect the copyrights of hum an artists, regulate this technology firm ly and do not
allow AI corporations to skirt perm issions and consent from  artists that allow their technology to function and exist in the first place. 
Hum an artists m ake your favorite shows, art, and books because of the passionate and purposeful, and talented works they create from
years of dedication and hard work that they deserve to be com pensated for. By putting hum an artists first, you are protecting Am erican
people, Am erican jobs, and the continued quality and passionate creation that supports our country's culture, and protect it from  erasure
caused by further elim ination of the livelihood of artists in Am erica.


