PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-0cbq-og60
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1761
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
Google and OpenAi both know where all the court cases on their GenAi m odels infringing on our rights are headed, and how badly it’s going to go for them .
Their only resort? Entirely destroy legal system s that are in our constitution in order to get away with their theft of creative works. 
And that’s exactly what they asked the White House to do, in recent com m ents sent by these com panies.
Both Google and Open AI want fair use exceptions for training of Generative AI. Meaning they can continue to scrape the entire internet and beyond, taking the
works of m ultiple industries, and using that work to their benefit, to profit from , for free, legally!
It’s essentially gutting IP laws we rely on and m aking the laws useless as Big Tech devours everything. 
Read m ore here:
https://www.theverge.com /news/630079/openai-google-copyright-fair-use-exception?fbclid=IwY2xjawJCJ8tleHRuA2FlbQIxMAABHR4hLx6S-
04CctbxUVQrXVWjZkIzsm RTn4m VRtDJZ9Hm Z-S-PzzJud8QvQ_aem _pCUQDlt5_8sZofh9cm GjGQ
Both Google and Open AI link to China as threat on this issue, Open AI even claim ing China has “free rein” over data. A laughable claim  as:
1. The unethical training data of m ost GenAi m odels used worldwide were m ade in the US, UK and EU.
2. China is regulating GenAi m odels and doing m ore than the US is concerning infringing m odels! 
https://www.jdsupra.com /legalnews/deepseek-and-china-s-ai-regulatory-4601861/?
fbclid=IwY2xjawJCJ99leHRuA2FlbQIxMAABHVZwfY7_ydTvWWATBjhbvU1CNGSIR6MMKwVZjViQcaFgm T6BxVGxbOZqZg_aem _Dy5_IRRiAf2gbzi6gCzs0g
It gets m ore dystopian. 
Open AI knows its gonna lose their lawsuits so not only do they want the US governm ent to destroy legal system s (copyright) in the constitution in order to get
away with theft, they also want to oversee and seem ingly control all ongoing legal cases and dom estic policy discussion. (See im ages for quote excerpt and link of
Open Ai’s subm ission)
An outrageous overreach, and a subjugation of both our legal and civil rights.
No joke IF they get this, the US will likely face irreparable harm  as pivotal creative econom ies and copyright dependent industries (which is a LOT bigger than just
creative econom ies) crash.
Please protect our copyright laws, they are there for a reason.


