PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-duzz-qg20
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1942
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Brooklyn Law Incubator & Policy Clinic
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
BLIP Com m ent


Brooklyn Law Incubator & Policy (BLIP) Clinic’s Comment on the 
Development of the National Science Foundation’s Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Pla n1 
Interest of the Comment 
Founded in 2008, the Brooklyn Law Incubator & Policy (“BLIP”) Clinic is a law school 
clinic that functions as a modern, technology -oriented law firm. BLIP grew out of the 
recognition that the Internet and digital technology are forcing law and policy beyond traditional 
legal structures/strictures. BLIP provides pro b ono legal support to socially  virtuous, 
bootstrapped startups, often pursuing ventures that analog laws have not anticipated. To that end, 
BLIP often advocates  for policy reform to advance the needs of startups and society in the 
Digital Age. The clinic has worked with over 1,000 clients on incorporation, intellectual property 
protection, licensing agreements, web documentation, policy and litigation support , and other 
general legal counseling. Many clients are accepted based on the extent to which the client ’s 
issues implicate Internet or digital economy issues of first impression or issues that require 
creative legal representation. In addition to providing dir ect legal support for individual clients, 
BLIP often serves to advocate as a collective voice of startups, entrepreneurs, and innovators.  
BLIP recognizes that Artificial Intelligence (“AI”) has revolutionized many aspects of 
everyday life, including how companies operate. Recent technological breakthroughs have 
resulted in the development and growth of generative AI systems capable of genera ting novel 
outputs based on their training data. This type of AI has proven especially useful in streamlining 
and perfecting the development and discovery of new technologies. Yet, as is often the case, the 
law has not kept up with the advances  of technolo gy, and startups, entrepreneurs, and innovators 
have been left alone to navigate the intricacies of using and developing AI with little to no 
guidance. As a result, this comment argues that while an AI plan is necessary to ensure that 
enterprises of all sizes  have a clear understanding of what constitutes permissible  and fair  use of 
AI within their bus iness practices, s mall and medium -sized  enterprises  (SMEs)  should not be 
held to the same regulatory standards as large corporations .  
The Need for a Comprehensive AI Plan  
Since the launch of ChatGPT, SMEs have redirected their resources to AI tools that can 
help them save time and money. A survey report by the Small Business and Entrepreneurship 
Council (SBEC) showed that 48% of small businesses began using AI tools in the past year.2 
1 This comment was written by Alexia Hodorski, Natalie Linero, and Will Anderson; with guidance from Jonathan 
Askin.  
2 Small Bus. & Entrepreneurship Council, Small Business AI Survey (Oct. 2023), https://sbecouncil.org/wp -
content/uploads/2023/10/SBE -Small -Business -AI-Survey -Oct-2023 -FINAL.pdf.


This survey also reported that 87% of small businesses saved time using AI tools, and 80% 
stated it made operations more efficient and saved them 13 employee hours a week.  3 While 
many SMEs are turning to AI tools to help manage everyday tasks, there is still a need for 
direction and guidance on using these tools safely with limited liability. Unlike large 
corporations, SMEs are  not equipped with IT departments and in -house legal counsel that they 
can turn to for guidance. They are seeking guidance and resources from the government to 
establish guardrails that can provide best practices to integrate AI tools and protocols to address 
potential risks they may come across.   Additionally, providing access to non -technical materials 
or affordable training programs can benefit SMEs interested in engaging in this area.  
 Carve Outs for Small and Medium Size Enterprises  
Creating a uniform approach to all businesses using AI could stifle innovation in niche 
markets and give large corporations an unfair advantage. SMEs thrive on fast -paced innovation 
and agility. Uncertain or excessive compliance regulations can slow their a bility to develop and 
bring products into the market while allowing large corporations to use their in -house legal teams 
to adapt to new regulations easily and quickly , thus outcompeting  small businesses . Regulations 
should be based on the company ’s size, revenue, risk level, and how they use AI. For example, 
SMEs using AI for chatbots to create a more efficient customer service experience have a lower -
risk application than companies that use automated hiring decision algorithms in their process es, 
which are higher-risk application s. Adopting a tie red approach to the AI action plan would allow 
all companies to meet  compliance standards  proportionate to their use  of AI .  
In general, SMEs  face a greater burden of following the same stringent AI regulations 
applied to big tech companies. After the European privacy law, the General Data Protection 
Regulation, investment in startup companies decreased by 36 %.4 This decrease  allowed large 
companies to gain more market share while innovation for smaller companies fell off. With more 
policy changes come  more compliance and liability costs for newer and smaller businesses that 
cannot afford such risks. Overall, SMEs  lack th e financial , legal , and technical resources to 
develop a thorough AI lifecycle plan that incorporates auditing requirements and risk 
assessments , and therefore, a specific SME carveout is critical to a successful AI action plan . 
3 Id. 
4 Jennifer Huddleston, AI and privacy Rules Meant for Big Tech Could Hurt Small Businesses Most , Cato Inst. (May 
20, 2024), https://www.cato.org/commentary/ai -privacy -rules -meant -big-tech-could -hurt-small -businesses -most . 


Grants and Funding to Promote AI Entrepreneurship  
The AI action plan should pro mote financial access for AI -related initiatives through the 
public and private funding  of AI entrepreneurship via SMEs.   First, a plan should pr ioritize  direct 
government funding of AI entrepreneurship  through SMEs .  A direct funding plan could involve 
creatin g or utilizin g competitive funding mechanisms, such as the Small Business 
Administration’s Regional Innovation Cluster program or its Growth Accelerator Fund 
Competition .5  These programs could be expanded to include not only the development of AI and 
other critical emerging technologies but also to encourage the procurement and use of highly 
productive AI technology by startups that would otherwise have difficulty accessing cutting -edge 
technology.6  Also, an increased amount of direct g rants and research and development fund s 
should be  specifically  earmarked for and marketed toward startups and SMEs .  For instance, the 
National Science Foundation’s annual budget request is close to $10 b illion for 2025.7  About 
$200 million of this budget currently goes towards the NSF’s America’s Seed Fund program, 
funding approximately 400 innovative startups with an average amount of approximately 
$500,000 per  venture.8  Given the total size of NSF’s budget, this amount could be increased to 
an amount close r to $1 billion.   Meanwhile, the NITRD also encourages research and 
development grants  related to AI research, which should continue.9 
Second, a plan should  also promote an entrepreneurial atmosphere conducive to the 
support of AI innovation through SME fundi ng by the private sector .  The AI action plan can do 
so by provi ding private sector tax incentives and working with larger tech companies to set an 
open, accessible infrastructure for SMEs.10  Public -private partnerships could be another area of 
emphasis for the AI  plan.11 Overall,  access to capital for SMEs is an important factor that should 
be considered in the development of the AI action plan.  
5 Michelle Kumar, Navigating the Era of AI: Implications for Small Businesses , BIPARTISAN POLICY CENTER  (Nov. 
3, 2023), https://bipartisanpolicy.org/blog/navigating -the-era-of-ai-implications -for-small -businesses/.  
6 Id. 
7 FY 2025 Budget Request to Congress , NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION  (Mar. 11, 2024), https://nsf -gov-
resources.nsf.gov/files/00_NSF_FY25_CJ_Entire%20Rollup_web.pdf?VersionId=cbkdqD_UMweHEIsZwPjtVgcQ
RwMccgvu.  
8 About America’s Seed Fund powered by NSF , NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION , https://seedfund.nsf.gov/our -
program/ (last visited Mar. 15, 2025). 
9 Artificial Intelligence R&D Investments Fiscal Year 2019 - Fiscal Year 2025 , NETWORKING AND INFORMATION 
TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (NITRD) , https://www.nitrd.gov/ai -rd-investments/ (last accessed 
Mar. 15, 2025).  
10 Tasha Austin and Kevin Lubin, How the US Government Can Accelerate AI Entrepreneurship , DELOITTE
INSIGHTS (Aug. 23, 2022), https://www2.deloitte.com/us/en/insights/industry/public -sector/accelerating -
entrepreneurship -in-artificial -intelligence.html.  
11 Id. 


Conclusion  
Generative AI has revolutionized business operations, creating opportunities for 
companies of all sizes to rapidly develop new business models, explore innovative solutions, 
increase efficiency, and enhance consumer experiences.  However, new AI models have also 
created new  risks and challenges that companies, particularly SMEs , have struggled  to navigate  
independently . Introducing  an AI action plan  will help foster  the growth and development of AI 
within the United States  by providing clear guidelines for enterprises to reference as they 
continue to integrate this rapidly developing technology into their everyday business practices. 
By creating a tiered approach to AI regulation , SMEs  will not be unduly burdened by high 
compliance costs or overly restrictive policies, ensuring that  AI innovation continues within the 
U.S. at all levels.   


