PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 13, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 87-tl84-5aw9
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1227
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Charam ath
General Comment
This 'action plan' shows a tre mendous amount of short-sightedness and lack of rob ust research or insight. It is plainly in favor of o ne major 
AI company and shows a co mplete lack of re gard for literally anyone else and the tremendous amount of red flags active in their 
company, including (but not limited to): t he hundreds of t housands of c itizens that AI company is currently stea ling from who are act ively 
(success fully) suing them, their total lack to t urn a pro fit desp ite BILLIONS in investment, their constant movement of the goalposts for 
their general art ificial intelligence beca use they know they are nowhere near act ually achieving it, to t heir lack of act ually managing to 
generate much of a nything of act ual value. 
Yeah, they have a chat bot, b ut all that's managed to do is make user experiences across t he world worse. Peop le are act ively hating AI 
more and more beca use for all the shouting they've done they've only managed to make a o ver-hyped p lagiarism machine. I've seen this 
reflected in current buying trends. Peop le actively want a prod uct LESS if AI (meaning image and text generation) is involved. 
Why shou ld the govern ment be giving ANY ki nd of preferential treatment, ESPECIA LLY the abi lity to re-work laws in their favor, 
to a company that's pri mary export is a lot of useless &^%? All this will do is acti vely push even more of the USA's best and 
brightest to  leave the cou ntry. You want the USA to rem ain a power-house? Then support the people beh ind the ideas Open AI is 
currently try ing to rip of f, not the company whose def inition of 'general arti ficial intelligence' chan ges every two months because they 
can't follow throu gh with a goal despite more money invested in them than nearly every other busi ness in existence.


