PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 10, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 82-kvkl-vsvc
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1119
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Phillip Masterson  A
General Comment
To whom  it m ay concern,
I would like to subm it a com m ent regarding the developm ent of the AI Action Plan as requested in the recent RFI. As an Algorithm
Scientist working at a sem iconductor m etrology com pany that regularly conducts business with TSMC, Intel, Sam sung, and other industry
leaders, I have a front-row seat to how US policy im pacts the sem iconductor industry and, by extension, AI developm ent. In light of m y
experience, I have several recom m endations:
First, I strongly recom m end im plem enting a lightweight, targeted reporting system  that focuses on the capabilities of the m ost advanced AI
system s. Given the speed at which this technology is advancing, it is vital for the current adm inistration to have a clear picture of the latest
developm ents, particularly regarding ways in which they could pose a threat to national security. This would not only help inform  policy,
but also give your adm inistration a better idea of what threats it m ay face from  future intelligent system s developed by foreign adversaries.
Second, for sim ilar reasons, your adm inistration should go out of its way to hire top-tier AI experts who truly understand the technology.
A dedicated AI team  would help avoid unnecessary bureaucracy, let the governm ent take advantage of new AI capabilities, and provide
valuable input into policy.
Third, it is im perative to quickly and proactively work with industry to create targeted security standards for frontier AI labs. Current
standards are lacking relative to the im m ense value these com panies provide to the US, and hacking and IP theft by adversarial countries
pose an urgent threat to our technological lead. The NSA and other key agencies should establish working relationships with frontier labs
so they can share their expertise and stay inform ed on the latest developm ents.
Fourth, export controls on foreign adversaries are necessary to m aintain Am erican dom inance in AI. Your adm inistration should leave
existing controls in place and crack down on loopholes, with particular attention given to H20s and other high-end chips that are not
currently covered.
Fifth, the US' lead in AI technology should not be im peded by a slowly-growing US electrical grid. Regulatory barriers for all sources of
power generation should be stream lined wherever possible. This will keep our AI com panies com petitive and create thousands of high-
paying Am erican jobs.
Finally, as som eone working in the US sem iconductor industry, I can say with confidence that repeal of the CHIPS Act would dam pen
the recent explosion of growth US chip m anufacturing. If reform ing the act is necessary, it should be done carefully and with extensive
input from  industry experts.
Thank you for your consideration. I encourage the Trum p adm inistration to m ake robust AI policy a high priority throughout the next four
years.
Sincerely,
Dr. Phillip Masterson




