PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2m ur-a9l9
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8441
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: S. B.
Address: United States, 
Em ail:  
General Comment
Allowing tech com panies to declare unfettered use of all Am erican copyrighted m aterial will do perm anent dam age to our country.
Am erican creative work will be stolen and repurposed by com panies who seek only to enrich them selves at the cost of all people. Even
with billions of dollar invested, both private and public, they barley m eet their own gentle benchm arks. OpenAI sobs that they will lose to
China if they are not granted our countries trove of creative work. Yet even by their own standards, their m um bling, stum bling, m indless
language m odel is som ehow dum ber, m ore expensive, then the Deep Seek m odel Chinese program m ers released for free. A m odel
whose creators say is only a novelty, and will not be the focus of future tech advances. Open Ai declaring they need m ore m oney and data
is absurd when you consider OpenAi says Deep Seek "stole" their code, yet they wish to plunder all Am erican copyrighted m aterial. They
scream  fraud as they try to rip off the locks protecting our culture. 
Furtherm ore, OpenAi's output is gargage, and no raiding of copywrite works will change that. Don't believe m e? Look at the brain dead,
drooling, m outh breathing, knuckle dragging, AI generated dross of Buzzfeed, any content farm , and just about every Op Ed writer. This
the future they want! It's garbage! It's filth! It's em pty, pointless, Sam  Altm an looks like he knowingly ate his twin in the wom b, erodes our
critical thinking, is a tool for scam s, like, Altm an looks like he m ade a conscious choice to eat his em bryonic twin, pollutes our society, and
is ultim ately a technological dead end.


