PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zvd6-m 7uj
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6163
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Jerem y TeGrotenhuis
Em ail:  
General Comment
As both an educator and a creative writer, I urge the AI action plan of the United States needs to restrain the abusive and rights-violating
practices of AI developers and institute guard-rails to prevent AI tools from  depriving the next generation of the opportunity to learn skills
and develop their intellect.
That last point is im portant, so I will start there. As a teacher, I have seen how destructive large language m odels are to the education
system . It has always been the case that m any students would rather not do the work required to learn. Now, there is a perfect tool for
them  to avoid work, one that can generate the kinds of sim ple essays or com plete the kinds of sim ple m ath problem s or lab reports that
students are assigned (and even include som e of the sim ple m istakes that students tend to m ake - m ore on that later!). Am erican education
is already struggling. Generative AI has only m ade that struggle worse, as students turn to and educators are forced to take tim e away
from  actually teaching, giving feedback, or developing lessons to identify and docum ent this AI-plagiarism .
Som e large language m odels and AI tools have their uses, particularly in the sciences and m edical fields. Generative AI, however, is
largely a scam . This technology is im pressive to the ignorant, but em barrassing to the inform ed. It m akes frequent m istakes, provides
factually inaccurate responses to prom pts, and will invent sources of inform ation whole-sale. Notoriously, lawyers have been reprim anded
and sanctioned by the courts for utilizing AI that fabricated case law that did not actually exist. Researchers have been caught subm itting
bibliographies that include citations to papers which were never published. These tools present them selves as reliable, but they do not
process inform ation or knowledge. They sim ply produce strings of text or tokens based on a com plex statistical process, guessing what
should com e next to satisfy the person who queried them . Referring to these tools as "intelligent" is largely a m arketing ploy. They are not
m eaningfully so, and som e researchers have openly stated skepticism  about their ability to ever becom e so. Why should we then obliterate
our copyright system , which protects the ability of working creatives to m ake a living, in order to facilitate the further developm ent of these
m assively expensive, resource-devouring m achines that do not even do the thing they claim  to do?
Sam  Altm an has publicly adm itted that AI developm ent is im possible without stealing from  creatives. That the need of these m odels for
training data is so enorm ous and insatiable that the copyright system  m ust be done away with to feed them . To that I say, if you cannot
operate your business in a way that is fair and legal, you do not have the right to operate your business. And the fact that Altm an's
businesses are m assively unprofitable and require constant injections of venture capital, even as his com pany has blatantly stolen data and
creative work to feed their m achines, reveals that even WHILE breaking the law he cannot create som ething worthwhile.
At the end of the day, these AI-boosters believe that this product is worth developing for the sim ple reason that it will one day replace
workers. That they will no longer need to pay skilled Am erican trades and craftspeople to develop software, write prose, create art, or,
eventually, do any other work at all. They dream  of a world without us, where our work has been used to feed a general artificial
intelligence which they can then use to replace us. And to build it, they want to steal from  us. They want to take our work, and then
enslave us by proxy through the m achine they will build with our work. It is a travesty of justice and a betrayal of the Am erican people to
allow this to happen.


