PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-tzfi-lls7
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3327
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Wyatt Sh ipp 
General Comment
If the usage of A.I. is to be norm alized in the professional and personal lives of Am erican people, then these program s m ust be integrated
through m easures that do not detract from  the ability for working-class citizens, professionals, artists, and creators to support them selves
through their line of work. Em ployees of the creative industries face consistently increasing challenges in their efforts to pursue livelihoods
in their fields, especially for independent artists whose projects and creations directly influence the ability for A.I. to gather data and learn
its technological functions. The rapid developm ent of A.I. threatens the intellectual integrity of living, breathing hum an artists, destabilizing
their ability to retain rightful legal control over their original creations. To avoid worsening socioeconom ic conditions for creative
workforces, our governm ent m ust im plem ent supportive m easures to ensure that these negatively affected citizens can still obtain adequate
em ploym ent in their chosen field, that they can retain creative agency over their intellectual property, and that they can receive fair, livable
wages through their creative work in order to support their basic survival and sufficiency. Our country, our world, and our species as a
whole thrives on its ability to create m eaningful, inspiring, and original art that can last through generations, granting us an inalienable ability
to tell stories and share m essages with each other that have the power to open our m inds, hearts, and spirits to experiences and
perspectives we m ay never have known otherwise. The future of hum an creativity rests in your governance.


