PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-06u5-jak9
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6412
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
AI uses far too m any resources for too little return, suffocating all kinds of parts of society in ways that are both unpleasant and lead to
self-destruction. Children use ChatGPT to write essays so they never have to learn, people use ChatGPT instead of doing their own actual
research and ignorantly accept whatever it says even when it's going to poison them , scam m ers and grifters use genAI to produce
pointless products no one wants, plagiarists use genAI to copy the work of others and steal revenue to the point where these com panies
are battling a ton of lawsuits because they violate fair use constantly...and then there are the em ployers struggling to find good em ployees
because everyone's using AI to write resum es that don't even reflect their actual skillsets, job seekers struggling to be seen at com panies
because they're also buried under the deluge of fake resum es that em ployers are now using m ore AI to sift through...never m ind the fact
that they aren't even obeying environm ental regulations and using up water while putting a huge strain on power grids...
I m ean, where does it end? It needs to be regulated. To sim ply let them  run roughshod over literally every aspect of society for the sake of
them  m aking m oney (and currently they are LOSING m oney so m uch that it's a real wonder why they're still getting funding). I know
business owners would love to just stop paying workers so they can pocket everything, but that is literally just being a cancer cell that will
eventually kill the living thing it's stealing resources from . The only reason they're sucking up to Trum p is because IT'S INCREDIBLY
EASY TO MANIPULATE THIS ENORMOUS COWARD so they're schm oozing so they can keep up their revenue stream  regardless
of the harm  it's doing across all levels of society. 'We have to keep ahead of the AI race!' They've already lost the race by abusing
working Am erican citizens and form ing an im m ense reliance on copyrighted work to the point where they have to sneakily force everyone
into an auto-opt-in system  so they can steal with im punity. The opt-out features don't even work on half these sites because so m any
people don't want to opt-in to have their data stolen.
This isn't sustainable. Regulate it or things will get very, very bad.


