PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-s4m y-akts
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3044
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I am  a program m er. I work with AI as part of m y job, at the insistence of m y superiors. The current m ost popular branches of AI
developm ent produce shoddy output, som etim es even dangerously so depending on what it's being used for, are over-prom ised on what
they can reliably accom plish or what they could ever hope to reliably accom plish, leading to m any users and investors putting unwarranted
faith and som etim es m oney into the products. This shoddy output is on top of training via ram pant copyright infringem ent and a com plete
disregard for intellectual property, som etim es purposeful and targeting in attem pts to infringe on a particular creator's unique style. They're
anti-com petitive, as they produce low-quality output at a subsidized and unsustainable cost, using predatory pricing practices to force the
creatives that they stole their training m aterials from  to either also drop to unsustainable prices or fold. They're harm ful to the environm ent,
wasting large am ounts of natural resources to accom plish tasks that could've been accom plished m uch m ore sim ply and with m uch fewer
resources by paying a hum an to do so. I believe there are valid and useful places for AI to be used, but at present the m ost "lucrative"
options, which are only lucrative thanks to a bubble, falsified advancem ent trajectory, and lax governm ent oversight, are a scam  in
progress, with creatives already feeling the burn and the collapse inevitably soon to reach executives. AI should be m ore strictly regulated
to ensure these com panies aren't scam m ing investors and consum ers alike by over-prom ising or prom ising things their product can't
accurately accom plish, that their training is done ethically, and that the pricing accurately reflects the cost of business; that they're not using
anti-com petitive pricing strategies with plans to increase prices once they achieve m arket dom inance.


