PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-v3vj-el73
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3489
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
The "Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan" m ust not go through, as the current state of "AI" is nothing m ore than
deception, theft, and an environm ental and hum anitarian disaster.
"AI" has been deceptively m arketed as being sim ilar to, or is an Artificial General Intelligence. Which is far from  the case, as current
m odels are do not "think", they utilize tokens, a weighted value to generate im agery, text, and now video. Zero "thought" or "reasoning" is
used in this process, nor is any truly novel technology being used. 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) as it stands, is nothing m ore than a m arketing term  for weighted Markov Chains fed with m assive am ounts of
data, using inordinate am ounts of power for results that are often incorrect, outright disinform ation, or m anipulated to achieve the creator's
goals. AI, which often refers to Large Language Models are an extrapolation of previous m achine learning algorithm s with the operational
idea behind them  being that "m ore data is better" when it com es to accuracy and flexibility, which is not the case.
Current "AI" schem es are fed data in ways that violates all known national and international copyright laws. Crawling websites, literature,
im agery, and software and collecting and copying all the data within without perm ission of the users or creators. Often, this involves
violation of "robots.txt", a file which says to crawlers that the site is not to be indexed. In order to prepare the data to m ake it useful for
the m odel, unpaid or m inim ally paid workers in the US and abroad to achieve this goal cheaply. And the end result is the wholesale
copying of unlicensed works utilizing borderline slave labor.
Each "AI" processor utilizes 1200 watts of power, in data farm s that have dozens of thousands of them  per facility. Utilizing inordinate
am ount of power to generate m iddling, incorrect results that m ost LLM's and other "AI" even adm it to. And to cool all of this, 20 gallons
of groundwater are used per m inute in evaporative cooling system s. Even if said data farm  is in the drought-stricken southwest US.
And all of this m ass data gathering is carte blanche for a setup for a surveillance state. Instead of having a hum an in the m iddle, it liberates
m alicious actors within the governm ent and corporations from  having to deal with m anpower needed behind national and local
surveillance. Without the accuracy or second guessing of a hum an operator.
Needless to say, "AI" should not be confused with m achine learning algorithm s that are found in the sciences that are tailored for that a
specific analysis and have existed decades before "AI" and LLMs. Said ML algorithm s are far m ore efficient and accurate, able to
perform  analysis in a short tim e span on standard desktop hardware. Without specialized AI chips or equipm ent.
The reasoning behind the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence action plan is not driven by the developm ent to build a thinking m achine,
but utilizing m arketing to surreptitiously crush creativity, freedom , worker's rights, and environm ental progress.


