PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 88-x1u3-j39b
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1353
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Am erican Optom etric Association
General Comment
Attached are com m ents from  the Am erican Optom etric Association.
Attachments
AI fram ework RFI


March 15, 2025 
Mr. Faisal D'So uza 
NCO  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Dear Mr. D ’Sou za, 
The Americ an Optometric Association (AOA) appreciates the opportunity to provide feedback on the 
“Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan. ” AOA 
represents more than 49,000 doctors of optometry, optometric professionals, and optometry students.  
Doctors of optometry take a leading role in patient  care with respect to eye health and vision care, as 
well as general health and wellbeing. As primary  healthcare providers, doctors of optometry have 
extensive, ongoing training to examine, diagnose, treat,  and manage ocular disorders, diseases, and 
injuries. They also play an important role in the management  of systemic diseases with ocular 
manifestations including diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular disease,  autoimmune diseases, and 
neurologic disease.  
Ensuring safe ty of the use of AI in healthcare is critical. When used appropriately, AI can be  a tool to 
enhance the essential doctor patient relationship, which can aid in providing better health outcomes.   Efforts should be made to ensure that AI is  not used in a manner  that puts that relationship 
at risk.  As AI in healthcare expands, AOA believes that important criteria must be met : 
•The value of AI in healthcare cannot be measured solely  on the  ability of the technology
to accurate ly identif y disease risk.
•To be truly valuable  to patients,  AI must be assessed based on whether  patients
identified with potential disease risk receive necessary care and follow -up.
•Companies using data sets to develop AI systems should consistently evaluate the dataset to identify any gaps from particular populations.
•Models should be designed to account for data gaps, and where shortcomings in data
exist, those models should be limited in use  and those shortcomings should be clearly
identified for potential users .
•Consideration should be given to whether models should be  open source or that the
training sources be  required to  published.
In addition t o carefully considering the clinical implications of AI in healthcare, we also believe more 
significant legislation and oversight is needed to identify and stop AI tools that create deepfakes . In the 
healthcare arena, we are increasingly seeing deepfakes of trusted health experts being used to spread misinformation.  Reliance upon deepfake  data could ultimately  cause harm .  We must see an increase in 
efforts to regulate deepfakes  as well as increased law enforcement related to deepfakes  in states where 
laws have already been passed .  


The rising prominence of the use of AI in healthcare carries with it both hope and concern for its 
potential impact on patient outcomes. We commend the administration for seeking feedback on the action plan and for laying the groundwork for a national strategy on AI.  O ngoing education will be  
critical for policymakers, regulators, patients and the healthcare workforce to understand both the 
limitations and potential uses of AI in healthcare .  To assist in this effort, AOA recommends that an 
advisory group be created to develop regulatory guidance on the use of AI in healthcare broadly. We 
would welcome the opportunity to provide recommendations for doctors of optometry to be included 
on an advisory  panel.  If more information is needed, please contact Kara Webb  
Sincerely,  
Steven Reed, O .D. 
President, American Optometric Association  


