PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-416l-xgra
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1399
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  SAS Institute Inc.
General Comment
Please see the attached com m ents from  SAS Institute Inc.
Attachments
SAS Response to OSTP RFI - AI Action Plan


SAS Worl d Headquarters 
100 SAS Campus Drive 
Cary, NC 27513 USA 
March 14, 2025 
AI Action Plan  
Attn: Faisal D'Souza 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination 
Office (NCO)   
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
(Submitted electronically via regulations.gov) 
SAS Institute Inc.’s Response to Request for Information on the Development of an  Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
Artificial Intelligence is poised to influence all aspects of contemporary life and affect every area of public 
policy. SAS commends the administration for proactively seeking public input on a broad spectrum of 
significant issues.  SAS is pleased to submit its response to the Request for Information on the US AI Action 
Plan.   
About SAS 
SAS, a U.S. owned and operated company founded and headquartered in North Carolina, has been a 
leader in data and AI for decades. SAS is dedicated to advancing AI development to transform data into 
intelligence for its customers across many sectors of the economy, including banking, manufacturing, 
pharmaceuticals, and more, bringing commercial solutions that scale to government.  
Over the past decade, SAS has made significant investments to further enhance AI and advanced analytics 
solutions tailored to the specific needs of specific industries.  For instance, SAS has established a division 
focused on proven anti-fraud solutions that assist governments and organizations in detecting and 
preventing payments fraud, money laundering, benefits fraud, and more. Additionally, SAS offers tools to 
support data quality, verification, standardization, integration, and matching, which are crucial steps in 
implementing an effective analytical solution for fraud, waste, and abuse.  
We are grateful for the chance to contribute to the AI Action Plan. Below are our comments on key issues 
highlighted in the RFI.


AI Action Plan  
March 14, 2025 
Page 2 of 3 
AI is not just Generative AI 
Generative AI has introduced significant technological advancements and has been the primary focus in 
recent AI policy discussions. But Generative AI is not the only AI technique. Policymakers should recognize 
that AI encompasses a broader range of techniques and technologies, each with its own value. Other AI 
techniques can operate independently or complement Generative AI, allowing those deploying AI to 
choose the right techniques and optimize their approach based on each technology's strengths.  
For instance, some SAS customers have leveraged AI and optimization techniques to enhance processes 
such as efficient resource allocation, vehicle routing, and other complex issues. Others have paired 
Generative AI with other natural language processing techniques to achieve better performance. 
Computer vision, digital twins, and streaming analytics (e.g., from sensors) remain important techniques 
for industrial applications. Additionally, SAS is exploring the use of quantum computing in hybrid 
optimization approaches to achieve faster and improved outcomes. SAS recommends that the 
government consider focusing on and investing in these other important AI techniques, as well as 
Generative AI. 
Prioritize harmonization of regulatory and procurement requirements 
As AI becomes integrated into areas that are already regulated or governed by complex procurement 
rules, policymakers should strive to harmonize and streamline these requirements across various 
domains, agencies, and subject matter areas. The harmonization of cybersecurity regulations is already a 
significant concern for many policymakers. As noted in the RFI, AI introduces new security challenges, 
such as attacks on AI models themselves. To the extent that regulation is necessary, any new rules should 
be aligned with existing cybersecurity approaches. Similarly, where AI raises privacy issues, the resulting 
regulations should align with current privacy frameworks, rather than creating additional isolated sets of 
rules.   
Incentivize open source security 
Open source software has become essential to the modern software economy. This software is often 
maintained by hobbyists, volunteers, or organizations that may lack the resources or incentives to 
prioritize security issues or respond promptly to newly discovered vulnerabilities. Nonetheless, open 
source software projects serve as critical building blocks in enterprise and government AI and software 
infrastructure. The widespread use of the same open source software by numerous organizations 
increases the risk that a single vulnerability could have significant repercussions.   
The government occupies a unique position to devise innovative incentive structures to mitigate these 
risks and to facilitate their implementation in collaboration with the private sector. 


AI Action Plan  
March 14, 2025 
Page 3 of 3 
Approach technology policy from a holistic perspective 
The United States has taken measures to invest in, regulate, and control critical AI-related technologies 
such as chips and model weights. These actions have been largely independent of intellectual property 
policy. But they should be viewed together, because intellectual property policy both affects—and is 
affected by—national competitiveness and AI policy priorities. 
Policymakers seeking to invest in, regulate, or control technology deemed critical by the country should 
remain aware that companies or individuals of any nationality can apply for patents on any technology in 
patent offices across the globe. It is not necessary for the applicant to have created a tangible product; 
theoretical inventions are acceptable. In court, even without a strong claim, a patent owner can use the 
cost of litigation to force settlements, disrupt businesses, and seek confidential technical information 
through civil discovery. In the International Trade Commission (ITC), foreign entities can request exclusion 
orders based on US patents, impacting supply chains of US companies. Plaintiffs in civil litigation often 
receive support from litigation funders whose identities are undisclosed and could include foreign 
sovereign wealth funds or international competitors.  
When crafting the AI Action plan, policymakers should consider whether these aspects of current 
intellectual property practices align with the country's overall policy objectives. 
Ensure AI makes patent examination better, not worse 
The US patent system serves an important role in incentivizing innovation. For the system to work as 
intended, patents should only be issued when they are warranted. One of the most difficult and time 
consuming tasks that is critical to patent examination is searching for prior art and evaluating, based on 
the relevant art, whether an invention is truly novel and nonobvious. The job of a patent examiner is 
challenging, with limited time to understand an application, search for prior art, and determine its 
significance. AI can serve an important role in augmenting this process. But, at least with today’s 
technology, the review process should not overly rely on AI for searching or analysis, as it may create a 
false sense of examination quality instead of improving it and result in improperly granted patents that 
will impede innovation instead of promoting progress.  
Conclusion 
SAS values the opportunity to provide its comments on these issues and look forward to the steps taken 
by OSTP to support a strong AI ecosystem in the United States. SAS is prepared to assist OSTP and other 
stakeholders in achieving these objectives. 


