PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-ze2y-wgxg
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6053
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Soph ia Campbell   
Email: 
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
ailetter


From: 
Sophia Campbell 
Cartoonist 
Re: N ational S cience Foundation’s R equest f or Information on the 
Development of an A rtificial I ntelligence (AI) A ction Plan  
I am an everyday American who owns a small v isual de sign business  
which serves clients i n the entertainment i ndustry. I hav e worked hard 
for years to develop the skills and knowledge to build my  business, and 
have been l ucky e nough to make a decent l iving and support m y family – 
until rec ently.  
The A I system s made by Big Tech co mpanies li ke OpenAI 
(Microsoft) and G oogle threaten to destroy thousands of American 
small businesses li ke mine w ith th eir recent demand to cr eate 
special car ve outs in co pyrigh t law.
AI systems c an only be produced by first training on work m ade by 
people. M y unique work, and the work of hundreds of thousands of o ther 
everyday A merican creators w as taken and fed into these AI systems 
without our consent or any compensation. T hey i ngest o ur work, 
reassemble it, and then sell i t back to our clients – directly c ompeting 
with us and cutting us out of the marketplace.  
Now t hese Big Tech companies are aski ng this adm inistration to create 
exceptions and loopholes t o make this prac tice of stealing American 
creat ors’ copyrighted work l egal precedent. T hey are suggesting that if a 
machine ingests a nd reproduces c opyrighted work, i t is somehow 
suddenl y “fair use”.  
They s eem t o believe that any thing and everything on the internet – 
regardless of who owns i t – should be theirs  for the taking. T hey c laim 
that i f this adm inistration does not al low them t o rew rite the law i n this 
way, i t will stifle A merican innovation.  
Instead, i t will h ave the opposite effect. T he purpose of American 
copyright law i s to p rotect the incentive to cr eate and i nnovate. 


If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we 
put online will be stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly make a living doing these things?
 
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to 
exploit and steal from creators and everyday Americans without 
permission, compensation, or transparency.


