PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-m zd4-3qn8
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2507
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Max Lam pi  
General Comment
Generative AI and m ost of the AI industry, if you could call it an industry and not a m afia, is an unprofitable m assive scam  built off of slave
labor, stolen goods, and num erous hum an rights violations. It's also a m assive waste of resources, nam ely water and electricity, that are
better suited to be used for anything else.
Where do I even start?
AI com panies believe they have the right to not only steal, copy, and distribute other people's copyrighted m aterial, they also believe they
have to right to put those people out of business by weaponizing and profiting off of that stolen copyrighted m aterial. This is the entire
purpose of Generative AI; m ass-producing forgeries on an industrial-scale by using creator's own works against them . Lest we forget,
forgery is a crim e, and giving AI com panies carte-blanche perm ission to continuing stealing and replicating people's work by m ass-
producing forgeries of their work is not just im m oral, unethical, and illegal, it destroys the very purpose and reason copyright exists,
nam ely to give creators control over their work and how their work is used. It's how creators can legally protect their work from  being
used for profits that they never see. AI com panies are now using creator's works against them , AI com panies who are now bribing the
United States governm ent with stolen m oney and valuations built off of that theft and exploitation.
AI com panies on the other hand know that they are running a sham  business built on stolen goods. There are a num ber of articles where
an AI com pany head will claim  that legally requiring licensing be respected will m ake it im possible for them  to m ake an AI m odel, and that
AI m odels *m ust* use copyrighted m aterial to function. How is this not an adm ission to theft if the product they are selling they openly
adm it cannot function without the work of others?
Not only do these program s cause m ore harm  than good, currently as far as I know, there are no profitable AI com panies. All their
valuations are inflated because of speculator value, and their services all lose m oney from  being used. This m eans each tim e som eone uses
one of these "free" program s, the AI com panies are losing m oney from  server costs, generation costs, inference, etc. from  the barest use,
and AI users love constantly using these program s. AI com panies are aware they are forever in the red, as AI com panies require constant
Venture Capital funds for their unprofitable m afia pretending to be a business. Not even AI as a paid subscription service can offset the
costs.
This m eans AI com panies are burning m oney on causing problem s that hurt creators, consum ers, and m ake both of these groups lose
m oney too. No one is winning in this situation, regardless of licensing deals. AI com panies are a parasite that drags the creators of the
world down with it.
And why should any creator license their work to an AI com pany? On top of replacing your job... AI outputs are uncopyrightable.
This has been a consistent ruling by the Copyright Office, which m akes sense for a num ber of reasons given that AI itself is a form  of data
laundering. If AI outputs becam e copyrightable, I could easily m ake a bot that wastes a ridiculous am ount of electricity and have an AI
im age m odel generate every single possible im age, pose, angle, lighting, color, characters, etc. and own the copyright to everything that
could potentially be, thus destroying the purpose and incentive of copyright in the first place. So kudos to the Copyright Office for
m aintaining their integrity. AI outputs m ust never be allowed to be copyrightable, m uch less be subjected to our retinas.


I argue that AI m odels, especially generative AI m odels or search recom m endation algorithm s, should be outlawed without exception on
the very basis that their existence is parasitical and a crim e against hum anity. The supplanting of art and culture by people in favor of
algorithm s that can only exist by that art and culture being stolen and copied from  is evil. Generative AI is an inherently unethical and evil
technology built by unethical and evil people. It has no right to exist in the first place. Protect hum an artists and creators first and forem ost,
because if you fail to protect the very people you represent, you no longer represent them  and are ill-fit to be running the governm ent.
Google, Anthropic, Microsoft, Meta, Am azon, Runway, Midjourney, StabilityAI, and OpenAI are all crim inal organizations acting
together on this issue. Find the people responsible in these groups for unleashing their AI problem s onto our society and punish them  with
jail tim e.
No m ore AI.
We've had enough.


