PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-oqeo-0vt5
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2631
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Cameron Reed 
General Comment
I oppose the tone of this AI action plan. It speaks of 'unnecessary requirem ents' that burden the private sector. This is very concerning
given Large Language Model's tendency to be trained using copyrighted works, without consent of the copyright holder. There's been
num erous reports from  journalists on how even AI CEOs adm it it can't exist without taking copyright m aterial (See: Salon -
https://www.salon.com /2024/01/09/im possible-openai-adm its-chatgpt-cant-exist-without-pinching-copyrighted-work/). AI is also a
serious energy hog as well as takes a lot of fresh water to operate.
Barreling forward with no consideration for requirem ents on this technology will lead to considerable unnecessary waste, IP
theft/infringem ent, and stranded assets as data centers boom  and bust. And god forbid the governm ent subsidize this, sending tax payer
dollars into private benefit. The com panies are already investing billions of dollars on their own, this does not need the US governm ent
further throwing this into a m ad race of whatever resources these LLMs can chew up.
Any AI action plan needs to be focused on how these can be ethically trained, without taking copyrighted works for sm all and
independent and large artists alike. It needs to reckon with the strain these m odels will place on the energy grid and on our water supply.
It needs to reckon with the job displacem ent that will be inevitable as m ore of these m odels are used in the workplace. These things do
not need less lim its, they need m ore, or they are going to break several aspects of the Am erican system .


