PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3646-gww2
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9203
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
There's m uch m isinform ation with AI, and even m ore if this bill passes. This would allow large com panies to steal inform ation without
paying for any of it, and m aking a loophole through copyright law. This would be catastrophic for Am erican m ade works, Including large
corporations like Disney, and also would m ost likely put thousands out of work from  them  being creatives and artists. We are already
going through a recession as is, this would cause less m oney to be in circulation of the general public and devalue the dollar. We cannot
afford to lose one of our only exports that is without tariff.
Attachments
Anti AI


From: 
Duncan Adams 
Collage Student 
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
I am an everyday American who owns a small visual design business which serves clients in the 
entertainment industry. I have worked hard for years to devel op the skills and knowledge to build 
my business, and have been lucky e nough to make a decent livi ng and support my famil y – until 
recently. 
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threate n to 
destroy thousands of American small businesses like mine with their recent demand to create 
special carve outs in copyright law. 
AI systems can only be produc ed by first training on work made by people. My unique work, 
and the work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators was taken and fed 
into these AI systems without our consent or any compensati on. They ingest our work, 
reassemble it, a nd then sell it back to our clients – directl y competing with us and cutting us out 
of the marketplace. 
Now these Big Tec h companies are asking this administrati on to create exceptions and loopholes 
to make this practice of stealing American creators ’ copyrighted work legal precedent. The y are 
suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow suddenly 
“fair use”.  
They seem to believe that anything a nd everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to 
rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation. 


Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to protect the 
incentive to create and innovate.  
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen 
by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new 
innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new pi ece of music only to have it 
immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will 
we possibly make a living doing these things?  
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday 
Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.  
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big 
Tech companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:  
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective consent, 
so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.  
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the 
incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic value, so 
the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech.  
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, requiring 
them to disclose  what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI 
generated.  
I am not anti -technology or anti -AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard 
work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to B ig Tech by rewriting 
copyright law.  
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.  




