PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-07q5-l7de
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6423
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: John Mi ller  
Email: 
General Comment
There is no such thing as “leadership” in the field laughably called “artificial intelligence,” just as there is (appropriately) no such thing as
leadership in the field of serving as a fence for stolen goods. What is called “artificial intelligence” today is sim ply the cam ouflaged theft of
intellectual property, and it would be one of Am erica’s deepest sham es to be a leader in it. If the U.S. values leadership in global m arkets
of any kind, our goal should be to protect the products—including the intellectual and creative products—we produce. But AI is built on
destroying such products, aggregating and adulterating original, valuable ideas and selling them  at a discount. Is Am erica a dubious
wholesaler in original ideas produced elsewhere? If so, we should em brace AI and further it any way we can. If, on the other hand,
Am erica is a land of distinct and original genius that produces ideas worth fighting for, we m ust do everything we can to protect those
ideas from  their discounting, their cheapening, and their watering down at the hands of tech com panies hoping to bundle them  together into
AI products. A real patriotic Am erican would attack the loosening of copyright that AI requires; a cheap pim p of true ideas would
em brace “AI leadership.” Which is Am erica? I hope we’re a real source of inspiration and insight—if so, we will fight the AI tide. But
perhaps we aren’t the nation I grew up believing we were. If we’re secondhand hacks, posers, and carnival barkers, we should fully
endorse the “AI revolution.” If we’re better than that, we m ust fight it. I guess we’ll see, in the com ing days, what Am erica really thinks
about itself and its role in the global future.


