PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-6iyy-u8m v
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1781
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Am erican College of Gastroenterology
General Comment
The Am erican College of Gastroenterology (ACG) is pleased to respond to this Request for Inform ation (RFI) regarding the developm ent
of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan. ACG appreciates that the Trum p Adm inistration is seeking public input to help define policy
priorities and actions for AI. AI has already been integrated into m any aspects of our daily lives, and its role will continue to expand,
influencing all areas of our lives, including healthcare. A fram ework to guide future actions related to AI is essential. 
ACG leaders have been actively engaged in the developm ent of AI in GI, working with subject-m atter experts in our specialty to harness
the benefits to patient care as well as overcom ing the challenges m edical providers and practices experience to achieve this goal. As such,
we also want to convey the im portance of including clinicians and m edical organizations in future discussions and initiatives related to AI.
In response to the RFI on the developm ent of an AI Action Plan, ACG m akes the following recom m endations:
As the federal governm ent develops its AI policy priorities and actions, healthcare m ust be incorporated into these plans.
The adoption of AI across the healthcare continuum  raises several issues that m ust be incorporated into an AI Action Plan, including the
developm ent of a reim bursem ent pathway to ensure continued innovation; the developm ent of a fram ework to ensure the safe, effective,
and trustworthy use of AI; clarification of responsibility and liability in the use of AI; and the need for appropriate oversight by m edical
professionals in the deploym ent of AI.
We urge policym akers to engage with healthcare professionals and organizations such as ACG as they develop AI policies. The
healthcare space is unique in its direct im pact on patient care. Healthcare professionals can provide clinical expertise to ensure the
accuracy and benefits of AI system s.
Attachments
AI RFI - ACG - March 2025


March  15, 2025  
Mr. Faisal D’Souza  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development  (NITRD) 
National Coordination Office (NCO)  
National Science Foundation  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
RE: Re quest for Information on the Development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action 
Plan  
Dear M r. D’Souza:  
The Am erican College of Gastroenterology (ACG) is pleased to respond to this Request for 
Information (RFI) regarding  the development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan . 
ACG appreciates  that the Trump Administration is see king public input to help deﬁne 
policy priorit ies and actions for AI. AI has already been integrated into many aspects of our 
daily lives, and its role will continue to expand, inﬂuencing all areas of our lives, including 
healthcare. A framework to guide future actions related to AI is essential.  
ACG i s a physician organization representing gastroenterologists and other 
gastrointestinal (GI) specialists. Founded in 1932, and representing over 20,000 GI 
clinicians, ACG’s mission is to enhance the  ability of our members to provide world  class 
care to patients with digestive disorders and advance the  profession through excellence 
and innovation based upon the pillars of patient care, education, scientiﬁc  investigation, 
advocacy, and practice management.   
ACG l eaders have been actively engaged in the development of AI in GI, working with 
subject -matter experts in our specialty to harness the beneﬁts  to patient care  as well as 
overcoming  the challenges  medical providers and practices experience  to achieve this 
goal.  As such, we also want to convey the importance of including clinicians and medical 
organizations in future discussions and initiatives related to AI.  In response  to the RFI on 
the development of an AI Action Plan , ACG makes the following recommendations:  
•As the  federal government develops its AI policy priorities and actions , healthcare
must be incorporated into these plans .


•The adoption of AI across the healthcare continuum raises several issues  that must
be incorporated into an AI Action Plan, including the development of a
reimbursement pathway to ensure continued innovation; the development of aframework to ensure the safe, effective, and trustworthy use of AI; clariﬁcation of
responsibility and liability in the use of AI; and the need for appropriate oversight bymedical professionals in the deployment of AI.
•We urg e policymakers to engage with healthcare professionals and organizations
such as ACG as they develop AI policies. The healthcare space is unique in its directimpact on patient care.  Healthcare professionals can provide clinical expertise to
ensure the accuracy and beneﬁts of AI systems .
Incorporation of Healthcare into AI Policy Priorities and Actions  
In reviewing the RFI on the Development of an AI Action Plan , ACG was disappointed that 
healthcare was not identiﬁed in the “relevant AI policy topic(s) list.”  We urge you to 
address this oversight. Healthcare is a substantial portion of the American economy. In 
2023, healthcare spending was an estimated 17.6% of the United States Gross Domestic Product .
1 The AI footprint in healthcare is already signiﬁcant and is expected to grow 
rapidly. The global AI healthcare market size was estimated at $ 19.27 billion in 2023 and is 
expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate  of 38.5% from 2024 to 2030.2  
To unde rstand AI's role  in healthcare, it might be helpful to go beyond these numbers and 
consider a practical example. A typical  gastroenterology practice utilizes and is impacted 
by AI in numerous ways.  
Administrative Tasks  •Automated data entry and billing
•Transcribing medical notes
•Inventory management
Diagnosis/Treatment  •AI enabled detection  of cancerous and non -
cancerous lesions and polyps;  detect bleeding
allowing for earlier intervention; GI pathology;  and
generation  of procedural reports
•Provide office visits through telemedicine
•Monitor patient through remote monitoringtechnology
•Diagnosis and risk prediction of GI disorders to
inform management
1 Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). (2024). National Health Expenditures 2023 Highlights . 
Accessed March 7, 2025; https://www.cms.gov/ﬁles/document/highlights.pdf . 
2 Grand View Research. (2024). AI In Healthcare Market Size, Share & Trends Analysis Report By Component 
(Hardware, Services), By Application, By End -use, By Technology, By Region, And Segment Forecasts, 2024 – 
2030. Accessed March 7, 2025; https://www.grandviewresearch.com/industry -analysis/artiﬁcial -intelligence-
ai-healthcare- market  


Patient Communications  •AI-enabled  chatbots can answer patient questions
or assist in scheduling appointments
•AI can assist in language translation services
Interactions with Payor  •AI may be used by insurers to process claims and
prior authorization requests
AI is  reshaping healthcare research, transforming how we diagnose and treat patients and 
the administrative workﬂows of healthcare delivery. The breakthroughs of AI in healthcare 
hold enormous promise to improve patient care, reduce costs, and advance res earch. 
These transformative beneﬁts of AI can only be achieved with an appropriately balanced regulatory framework that allows for innovation and the deployment of safe and effective AI technology in the healthcare space.  
These  factors, combined with unique aspects of healthcare that directly impact health and 
well -being, make it imperative that healthcare  be included in and is a prominent  
component of any national action plan on AI.  ACG recommends the incorporation of 
healthcare in the national AI  Action Plan.  
Key Issues for Consideration in the Adoption of AI Across the Healthcare 
Continuum 
The adoption of AI across the healthcare continuum raises several issues, including the development of a reimbursement pathway to ensure continued innovation; the development of a framework to ensure the safe, effective, and trustworthy use of AI; clariﬁcation of responsibility and liability in the use of AI; and the need for appropriate oversight by medical professionals in the deployment of AI.   
Reim bursement Pathway  
AI is used to develop technology to help diagnose and treat patients. While not an exhaustive list of AI -enabled medical technology, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
maintains an AI/Machine Learning (ML) -Enabled Medical Device List of all AI/ML-enabled 
medical devices authorized for marketing in the United States. The list contains 1,016 entries for medical devices used across many specialties. For g astroenterology, AI -
enabled technology is used for image recognition analysis, clinical data analysis, and 
practice management.  
Physi cian services are described by CPT© codes that are reported on claims for 
reimbursement. The annual CPT book, published by the CPT Editorial Panel of the 
American Medical Association  (AMA) , has developed a helpful framework to categorize AI 
technology in a medical context. As described in the ﬁgure below, CPT categorizes AI technology as assistive, augmentative, and autonomous.  A reimbursement pathway must 
be developed for all three types of AI -enabled technology.  


Source: CPT 2025 Professional Edition, Appendix S, American Medical Association.  
The heal thcare community's current challenge  is that there is no methodology to capture 
the costs of AI -enabled technology that may enhance or improve medical treatment. There 
is a lag between the development of AI -enabled technology and the establishment of 
reimbursement pathways to capture its costs. A lack of a clear reimbursement pathway 
will discourage innovation and reduce developers' interest , resulting in  patients who will 
not be able to beneﬁt from these advances.  
While  there will not be a one -size -ﬁts -all reimbursement solution for AI technology, 
reimbursement is key to ensuring the continued innovation of AI -enabled technology  and 
improving patient access.  
Curren t AI-enabled technology has demonstrated how it can transform the clinician's and 
patient's experience. It also has the potential to save the system money. Without a 
pathway for reimbursement, we fear innovation will be stiﬂed, patients will lose the beneﬁts that AI can provide, and any future expectations of cost savings to the system will not be achieved. ACG recommends that the current reimbursement landscape be considered in developing the AI Action Plan, and  prioritization is given to establishing  
reimbursement pathways.  
Assuring Safe, Effective, and Trustworthy Use of AI  
The output of AI -enabled technology depends on a set of underlying data. This data 
consists of information or inputs that train the AI model to make predictions or decisions. Consequently, the output of any AI -enabled technology is only as good as its underlying 
data. Standards, frameworks, and best practices for collecting and using data in 
developing AI -enabled technology should be established to ensure the data is sufficiently 
robust . This approach would resemble how standards are created in other scient iﬁc 
endeavors.  
For example, physicians typically rely on guidelines developed by experts in the ﬁeld to 
help determine a course of treatment for a particular patient. They have conﬁdence in 


these guidelines because they were developed using a rigorous set of standards  known 
and generally accepted by the medical community.  
A recen t AMA survey on AI provides further evidence of the need to develop standards and 
improve oversight in developing AI -enabled technology to ensure its continued adoption. 
The survey found that while there is growing enthusiasm within the physician community 
for AI, i ncreased oversight ranked as the top regulatory action needed to increase 
physician conﬁdence and adoption of AI .3 
The diffusion of AI -enabled technology within the healthcare ﬁeld is incredible. ACG is 
optimistic  about its potential to improve patient care and the overall delivery of healthcare. 
AI devices are being developed in various environments, from small practices to large academic health centers and private companies. Physicians and other medical professionals are using these devices, which can have life -and-death consequences for 
patients. ACG believes some standards are  needed to ensure the safe and effective 
development  of these technologies. This will assure both clinicians and their patients that 
these devices ca n be safely used. ACG recommends that the AI Action Plan include 
developing standards for collecting and using the underlying data in AI -enabled  
technology to ensure its safe and effective use.  
Respo nsible Use of AI  and Medical Liability  
Like any medical technology, AI -enabled technology comes with risks. With the rapid pace 
of the introduction of AI -enabled technology in the medical ﬁeld, there is a critical need for 
clarity and consistency in determining the responsible use of AI and medical liability  when 
errors occur.  The current regulatory framework for medical liability is inadequate. The development of AI -enabled technology introduces variables that may not apply in the 
current environment and raises new medical -legal issues. Neith er patients nor clinicians 
will feel comfortable using this technology (or conversely not using AI in the future) unless 
the framework for responsible use and determination of liability is  transparent. Standards 
for the safe use and medical liability must be part of any national strategy around AI. ACG recommends that  the AI Action Plan address AI -enabled technology’s safe use and 
medical liability.  
Appropr iate Oversight by Medical Professionals  
A growing use of AI -enabled technology by private payors is the use of AI for prior 
authorization and other claims processing activities. AI -enabled prior authorization has the 
potential to signiﬁcantly cut down on time -consuming manual tasks for clinicians and the 
payor. Algorithms can also be used to determine if a requested treatment and submitted 
justiﬁcation documents comply with the medical criteria used by the plan. A lgorithms can 
be used to triage prior authorization  decision -making to an appropriate reviewer .  
3 American Medical Association. (2025). AMA Augmented Intelligence Research Physician sentiments around 
the use of AI in healthcare: motivations, opportunities, risks, and use cases . Accessed March 9, 2025;  
https://www.ama -assn.org/system/ﬁles/physician -ai-sentiment -report.pdf . 


While t hese are appropriate uses for AI, ACG is very concerned with using AI for prior 
authorization decisions made without review by an actual human. Trained medical 
professionals need to make  these critical medical decisions that can profoundly impact  
the trajectory of a patient’s treatment and eventual health outcome. There have been real -
world examples of payors making prior authorization decisions using AI -enabled 
technology without medical professionals’ review and input. Some states have started pass ing legislation to bar this practice. Effective January 2025, legislation in California 
mandates t hat a qualiﬁed human individual must review  prior authorization requests.
4 A 
number of other states have also introduced a variety of legislation related to the use of AI -
enabled technology by insurers.5 Federal leadership is needed to set the standards for 
appropriate medical oversight of AI -enabled technology. ACG recommends that the AI 
Action Plan incorporate the need for proper  medical oversight of AI -enabled 
technology.  
Engagement of Healthcare Professionals in the Development of AI 
Policies and Priorities 
ACG was delighted that the Administration released an RFI for  developing an AI Action 
Plan. AI is having a revolutionary impact on not just healthcare but  on all aspects of life. It 
has the potential to drastically improve health outcomes , reduce burdens on clinicians, 
and provide savings to the overall health system. However, i t also carries signiﬁcant risks 
in these same areas, and therefore, a thoughtful and responsible approach is needed to help guide its growth and development. Healthcare is an especially critical and complex area for AI. We urge the Administration to work closely with the medical community as it develops policies and activities around AI. ACG offers itself as a resource to the Administration , and we would welcome the opportunity to continue this meaningful  
conversation with you and other decision -makers in the Administration.  
Thank you for t he opportunity to submit these comments , and we hope to continue to 
engage with the Administration on this critical  issue. Please contact Brad Conway, Vice 
President of Public Policy, Coverage & Reimbursement, at  or 
 with any questions.  
4 Becker, Josh. (2024). Landmark Law Prohibits Health Insurance Companies From Using AI To Deny 
Healthcare Coverage; press release; accessed on March 10, 2025; https://sd13.senate.ca.gov/news/press -
release/december -9-2024/landmark -law -prohibits -health- insurance -companies -using -ai-to 
5 American College of Radiology. (2025). State Legislators Introduce Artiﬁcial Intelligence Bills. Accessed on 
March 10, 2025; https://www.acr.org/News -and -Publications/State -Legislators -Introduce- Artiﬁcial -
Intelligence- Bills  


