PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0r1k-6s3b
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6833
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: David Sou les 
General Comment
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.
Artificial Intelligence, as currently conceived, is diam etrically opposed to hum an flourishing, econom ic com petitiveness, and national
security. The US would be best served by cutting its losses in investm ent in this wasteful and grotesquely overhyped technology.
AI com panies have m ade extravagant prom ises—indeed, the sam e prom ises, renewed every few m onths when a new version is released,
prom ising that the new m odel will succeed where the previous m odels failed. Training future versions requires exponentially m ore power
and data for inputs—power which is taxing our electrical generation capabilities and data which does not exist, as we are already training
current m odels with at least a quarter of the available Internet and thus cannot provide another order of m agnitude increase in data that
would be required for linear growth of m odel capabilities.
Moreover, this training regim e requires giving a com pletely unwarranted exception to copyright law for particular privileged com panies—
the exact opposite of a fair and com petitive m arket of ideas. As Sam  Altm an has stated, AI training is not possible without appropriating
the intellectual property of copyright holders—behavior that we have justly condem ned when it has been contem plated by a strategic
adversary.
Despite these very real costs to our resources and legal rights, AI is extrem ely unlikely to achieve any m eaningful progress toward general
intelligence. It can produce an im pressive sim ulacrum  of coherent language, but it does not engage in m eaningful reflection (despite the
countless m etaphors inappropriately em ployed by practitioners) and its hallucination problem s m ake it unfit to purpose for m ost m eaningful
tasks.
This lack of prom ise can be seen in the dearth of organizations which have seen significant profitable application of the technology. While
we prom ise businesses the ability (very soon!) to replace hum an workers with an autom aton, what we have received is inaccurate
sum m aries, an inability to cite sources properly, continuous (at tim es libelous) confabulation, and bots that underm ine the interests of their
users, m aking prom ises contrary to com pany policy or m aterial reality.
Our country’s interests are best served by stopping investm ent into this field and instead targeting it to field- and problem -specific m achine
learning m ethods, which do show considerable effectiveness; or putting these resources towards general research and university
education.
Thank you for your attention to this m atter.


