PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 12, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 86-g5hz-dnbi
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1166
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Kerry Maci ntosh 
General Comment
Dear Networking and Inform ation Technology Research and Developm ent (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO):
This com m ent responds to your request for input on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan (Plan). You have asked for
priority actions that should be included in the Plan. 
Science fiction has persuaded the public that AI is an existential threat. This illusory threat encourages governm ent to overregulate the
technology. For exam ple, recent proposals for pauses, m oratoria, and licensing schem es will harm  Am erican innovation and
com petitiveness, and should not be included in the Action Plan. 
I develop this argum ent in m y article, “Rogue Artificial Intelligence, Science Fiction, and the Law,” which will appear in Volum e 41, Issue
1 of the Santa Clara High Technology Law Journal. The article will be published online shortly. Please consider it in your deliberations. 
Thank you for considering this com m ent.
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.
Attachments
NITRD NCO public com m ent


Dear Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National 
Coordination Office (NCO):
This comment responds to your request for input on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence 
Action Plan (Plan).  You have asked for priority actions that should be included in the Plan. 
Science fiction has persuaded the public that AI is an existential threat. This illusory threat 
encourages government to overregulate  the technology.  For example, recent proposals for 
pauses, moratoria, and licensing schemes will harm American innovation and competitiveness, 
and should not be included in the Action Plan. 
I develop this argument in my article, “Rogue Artificial Intelligence, Science Fiction, and the 
Law,” which will appear in V olume 41, Issue 1 of the Santa Clara High Technology Law Journal. 
The article will be published online shortly.  Please consider it in your deliberations. 
Thank you for considering this comment.
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
Kerry Lynn Macintosh
Inez Mabie Distinguished Professor of Law
Santa Clara University School of Law 


Let’s start outlawing AI agents on all levels now, put safety standards in place. The AI industry itself begs to be regulated for years now,
they have m arket forces forcing them  to be reckless if we’ll not put external guidelines to m ake them  all follow safety standards. Right now
the one who is the m ost reckless wins, by building quickly and dirty instead of thoughtfully and carefully.
We m eed to cooperate internationally in order to m ake GPU com panies that m ake hardware for AI to have m athem atical guarantees that
they cannot be used for AI agents, only for non-agentic AIs. We need to cooperate with China to force North Korea not to develop AI
agents, too. We’ll need to burn current GPUs that allow AI agents and give people som e discounts to replace them  with non-agentic
GPUs. 
It’s already alm ost too late to stop the AI agents. We shouldn’t lose hope and we should use this hope to act now.
Wish you the best luck and thank you! What you do is very im portant!


