PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-yocw-wkne
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5471
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Katel yn Rogers  
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
AI_Copyright_PublicCom m ent


March 15, 2025 
From: 
Katelyn Rogers 
Background Painter and Designer, Storyboard Artist 
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
I am an American who works in the Animation industry. I have worked hard for years to develop 
the skills and knowledge to build my skillset, as well as invested thousands of dollars in 
schooling to be where I am. I have been lucky enough to make a decent living working for 
various small businesses – until recently. 
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google 
threaten to destroy thousands of American businesses like the ones I work in with their 
recent demand to create special carve outs in copyright law. 
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work made by people. My unique work, and 
the work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators was taken and fed into 
these AI systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest our work, reassemble 
it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly competing with us and cutting us out of the 
marketplace. 
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. 
They are suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow 
suddenly “fair use”.  
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to 
rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation. 
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to 
protect the incentive to create and innovate.  
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen 
by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new 
innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it 
immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will 
we possibly make a livin g doing these things? 


Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and 
everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency. 
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition: 
●First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent, so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
●Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that
the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense
economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original
creators, not just Big Tech.
●Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what
content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI, but we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of 
thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law. 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues. 


