PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-57q9-qv46
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1410
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Michael Edging 
General Comment
I am  a published songwriter, show producer and record producer. Of course, AI is upsetting to m ost in m y business because the fear of
theft of one's creative endeavors is an ever-present possible encroachm ent on one's hard-earned livelihood. Having said that, I realize for
Am erica to be a leader in this realm , we are up against China and other subversives who care not a whit about individual rights or the
betterm ent of hum ans on this planet. They sim ply wish to have power over all things and if individuals suffer or die, that is okay with them
because power is their only concern.
We, as a nation, m ust succeed in staying ahead at this crucial tim e in hum an history. AI (Artificial Intelligence) is the watchword of our
tim e because it is the double-edged sword of civilization's onward m arch to a better future. My thought is that we will have to allow AI
technology to develop and we, as writers/creators, will have to allow it to study our work since AI is only as good as what it studies. It is
not om nipotent, it is not divine, it is a m achine. And m achines are only as good as what we teach them , so we have to use the very best
inform ation available for that purpose. China won't care about our creations or our copyrights in their endeavor to overcom e freedom  in
the world. They will steal the best and as is apparent from  the past, never pay for such usage. We in the Western world have an
opportunity. We can train our AI with the best we have and create in the process, hopefully, the best AI on this planet!


