PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-195o-hpu2
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7267
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
1. The com bination of unregulated data center growth, cooling dem ands, and aging electrical infrastructure has begun to cause
inconsistencies in utility services that will prove enorm ously costly to consum ers. Data centers and energy com panies should not be
allowed to offload these costs to the governm ent or pass them  on to the Am erican public in the form  of higher electrical rates or water
costs. Com panies seeking to build new data centers should bear the associated costs of those centers to the public, either through taxes or
graduated rate differentials.
2. AI developers m ust not be given an exem ption from  copyright laws. Creating a carve-out from  protections that are rigorously defended
by corporations and clearly articulated in centuries of case law will weaken the system  as a whole. At heart, generative AI does not exist
outside of the content used to train it, so to detach that content from  the applicable legal fram ework m akes the traditional notion of
copyright and protection of the ingenuity of creators m eaningless. Developers should negotiate with rights holders, and those negotiations
should also include extensive protections for the privacy and safety of individuals connected to the works used, either as subjects or
creators.
3. Consum ers, viewers, and readers should be given the opportunity to m ake inform ed decisions about generative AI. Failing to
distinguish between the creative output of hum ans and the derivative products of AI is harm ful to com m unication in general, and to
scientific discovery, news m edia, literature, and education in particular. Just as with copyright declarations of source m aterials, publication
of AI-produced m aterial should include a clear statem ent of how and to what extent generative AI has been em ployed.


