PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-y8t1-xktd
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4897
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Bruce Hartzell  
General Comment
From :
Bruce Hartzell
Writer
3965 Michael Avenue,
Los Angeles, CA 90066
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am  an everyday Am erican who m akes a living as a writer and copywriter. I worked for years to hone m y skills, craft, and abilities, and I
have been fortunate enough to m ake a living as a writer.
The AI system s developed by m ajor tech com panies, such as OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google, pose a threat to thousands of Am erican
sm all businesses and creatives with their recent dem and for special carve-outs in copyright law.
AI system s are plagiarism  m achines. The so-called training is theft by another nam e. These com panies have used m y creations and those
of countless other artists, writers, and m usicians without our consent. They steal our work, regurgitate it, and then sell it back to our
clients, directly com peting with us and cutting us out of the m arketplace.
These thieves are now asking to create exceptions and loopholes to m ake this practice of stealing Am erican creators’ copyrighted work
legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a m achine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is som ehow suddenly “fair use” and
necessary for their businesses. 
To codify this crim inal act will destroy the lives of countless Am ericans and dam age our econom y.
If we the Am erican people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the
incentive to create? If everyday Am ericans create a new innovative piece of com puter code, a new visual design, or a new piece of m usic
only to have it im m ediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly m ake a living
doing these things?
Am erican creators m ust be protected. Our creations are seen around the world and are a m ajor source of Am erican econom ic strength.
You cannot give them  perm ission to steal the work of others. Do not create new copyright exem ptions that allow Big Tech com panies to
exploit and steal from  creators and everyday Am ericans without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency.
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech com panies, but rather on ensuring a fair
m arketplace with com petition:


• First, the governm ent should ensure that both creators and everyday Am ericans provide inform ed consent, so we can determ ine when
and how our work is used by AI system s.
• Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace to preserve the incentive for sm all businesses to create.
Our work has im m ense econom ic value, and the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech.
• Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies. It should require them  to disclose what m aterial is in
their training datasets and label what content is AI-generated.
Technology has m ade a huge difference in the world, but we can’t destroy the livelihood and allow the theft of people’s work without
perm ission.
Thank you for the opportunity to com m ent on these im portant issues.


