PUBLIC  SUBMISSION  
 
 
 
Docket:  NSF_FRDOC_0001 
Recently  Posted  NSF Rules  and Notices.  
Comment  On: NSF_FRDOC_0001 -3479 
Request  for Information:  Development  of an Artificial  Inte ligence  Action  Plan 
Document:  NSF_FRDOC_0001 -DRAFT -1557 
Comment  on FR Doc # 2025-02305  
 
Submitter  Information  
Email:  
Organization:  Salesforce  
 
General  Comment  
See attached  file(s)  
 
Attachments  
20250314_OSTP  RFI Response  on AI Action  Plan 
As of: March  21, 2025 
Status:  
Tracking  No. m89-esrd-fgw7 
 
Submission  Type:  API 

415 Mission  Street 
San Francisco, 
California 94105 
Salesforce,  Inc. 
/salesforce  
@salesforce   
 March  14, 2025  
 
Faisal D'Souza, NCO,  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue,  
Alexandria,  VA 22314,  USA 
 
Re: Request  for Information  on the Development  of an Artificial  Intelligence  (Al) Action 
Plan.  
 
Comments  of Salesforce  
 
Salesforce appreciates the opportunity to provide written comments on  the development of 
an Artificial Intelligence (Al) Action Plan in response to the Networking and  Information 
Technology Research and  Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office  (NCO) and 
National Science Foundation's  request  for information  on behalf of  the Office of  Science 
and Technology Policy (OSTP) . 
 
About  Salesforce  
Founded in 1999,  Salesforce is  a global leader in cloud enterprise software for  customer 
relationship management, providing  software -as-a-service  and platform -as-a-service 
offerings to businesses, governments, and other organizations around the world. Our 
customers represent companies  of all sizes  and across  all sectors.  Our business model  is 
cloud -based and low -code, allowing  for faster technology deployment and  greater agility. 
We help our customers connect with their customers -or employees or  citizens -in new ways 
using cloud, data, and AI technologies.  
 
Salesforce has  been  active  in the development and  research of  AI for more  than a decade. 
Our latest AI innovation is  Agentforce, a  suite  of out-of-the-box AI agents  and a set of  tools 
to build,  customize, and  deploy  them  across any industry. Agentic AI is  a technological 
revolution -the third wave of artificial intelligence after predictive and generative AI. AI 
agents go beyond traditional automation, being capable of searching for relevant data, 
analyzing it to  formulate a plan,  and then putting  the plan into action.  This technology has 
incredible potential to enhance speed, responsiveness,  and personalization  for private  
enterprises and the public sector . 
 
Enterprise  AI 
At Salesforce, our  commitment to trusted  AI stands out  through our  focus on  the enterprise 
AI space's unique  characteristics.  The business model of  enterprise AI is  trust.  Both our 
commercial and  government customers demand the highest levels of  trust, reliability, and 
accuracy . As a trusted enterprise AI  provider, we  tailor our approach to focus on  the 
use-case  and context -specific  applications  of AI tools  optimized  for our customer's  business  

415 Mission  Street 
San Francisco, 
California 94105 
Salesforce,  Inc. 
/salesforce  
@salesforce   
 needs.  Unlike  consumer  Al, which  is often  generalized  and susceptible  to misuse,  Salesforce 
develops AI models and  applications that are highly specialized and relevant to our 
customers' needs.  These  models  are designed  to perform  everyday work  tasks  such  as 
generating  emails,  summarizing  sales  or service calls,  and suggesting  actions  for case 
resolution during  customer support interactions, among many other agentic AI use cases.  
Our AI  systems are  built and  trained on  curated data with stringent privacy, security, and 
accuracy requirements. Whether or  not mandatory regulations are  in place, our  enterprise 
customers will  expect high  standards of  trust,  responsibility,  and safety from Salesforce's 
enterprise  AI, and Salesforce aspires  to exceed  those  expectations  as a U.S.-headquartered 
global leader.  
 
AI Opportunity  
For AI to deliver  on its promise  to boost  economic  growth,  raise  living standards,  and 
improve the  delivery  of public  services, it  needs  to be widely  adopted and used  by 
organizations  of all sizes  operating across  different  economic  sectors. Policies that  support 
the uptake  of enterprise  AI have the  potential  to dramatically  accelerate  and pull forward 
these gains, as companies  deploy  AI at scale.  AI agents  are poised  to become  an 
increasingly  important  part of the  way that  enterprise  AI is adopted  across  the economy.  To 
unlock  this opportunity,  the US government  should  both lead in the uptake  of these 
technologies  as well as ensure  a policy  environment  that encourages  the development  and 
use of responsible  AI. Taking action on these  issues is both a  matter  of national  security  as 
well as economic  leadership  for the United States.  
 
Salesforce  employs  AI to help governments:  
 
• Automate routine tasks -By offloading  tedious manual  tasks  to AI or  Al-powered 
agents, staff can  spend more time focusing on  complex tasks and strategic 
initiatives.  
• Improve government  efficiency -Streamlining  processes and workflows allows 
agencies  to complete  tasks  faster,  often  with fewer  resources  and at lower  operating 
costs.  
• Make  better decisions -Real -time data and  insights  that AI  can provide help  agencies 
make more informed decisions faster.  
No matter  if it is agentic  AI or some  other  AI innovation,  the fundamental  principles  of 
sound  AI public  policy  remain  unchanged:  risk-based  approaches,  with clear  delineation  of 
the roles  of different  actors  in the ecosystem,  supported  by robust  privacy,  transparency, 
and safety  rules . With this in mind,  it is time to think  beyond  just regulating  how AI is built 
and used.  Policymakers  should  focus  on creating the  right conditions  to support  the wide 
adoption of trusted agentic  AI across industries  and geographies. Salesforce  has previously 
shared  thoughts  in our white  papers, The Next Frontier  in Enterprise  Al: Shaping  Public  

415 Mission  Street 
San Francisco, 
California 94105 
Salesforce,  Inc. 
/salesforce  
@salesforce   
 Policies For  Trusted AI Agents  and Shaping  the Future: A Policy Framework  for Trusted  
Enterprise AI . 
Trust  as a Foundation  For AI Adoption  
Companies  that use our products entrust their  sensitive data,  customer relationships,  and, 
ultimately, their credibility in  the marketplace, to us.  For these customers, many of whom 
operate around the world and are  subject to a wide array of rules, ensuring  that our 
enterprise AI products are safe, reliable, and trustworthy is  table stakes -our business 
depends on  getting  these issues right.  For Salesforce to  retain its  market positioning, we 
must be  always looking  for means to meet and  exceed the expectations of  our customers 
regarding  the trust, responsibility,  and safety of  our enterprise AI.  One way we 
operationalize these commitments is by designing experiences that help make AI more 
reliable and that clearly explain the Al's action while delivering clear and correct 
information.  
 
We are committed to making  Al's benefits accessible to  everyone while ensuring  these 
technologies are  safe, reliable, and  adaptable to various environments. We provide our 
employees, customers, and  partners with  the necessary tools  to develop and  use AI safely 
and accurately.  To achieve  this, we prioritize  Trust  as our core value  and we have  established 
our Trusted AI Principles  and our Guiding  principles for  responsible agentic AI  that apply to 
both agentic and  generative AI.  Further,  Salesforce proactively engages with  governments, 
industry,  academia, and  civil society to advance  trusted,  risk-based, and  globally  applicable 
AI norms. By  focusing on  trusted AI,  Salesforce aims  to encourage faster adoption of  this 
technology, leading  to significant economic and productivity gains.  
Policy Recommendation : Consumer  and business trust in AI remains  elusive . To close 
this gap, public -private  collaboration will be  key. Salesforce supports, through an 
organization  like the National Institute  of Standards and  Technology (NIST), the 
means  for businesses  to demonstrate  their efforts  to develop  trusted  AI. Tools  like 
guidelines,  principles,  and frameworks can  create  a path to closing  the trust gap and 
increasing AI adoption.  
Policy  Recommendation : As the federal government considers rules  for the use and 
adoption  of AI, a collaborative approach  is critical.  Salesforce supports  the creation  
of a presidentially  appointed committee to bring together the public sector, 
academics,  civil society,  and the private  sector to develop innovative policies and 
approaches  to AI.  This multi -stakeholder  approach  will help us advance  adoption  and 
maintain national competitiveness.  
Policy  Recommendation : Testing is  a crucial part  of the responsible AI  lifecycle . 
Salesforce  conducts  rigorous  AI testing in  simulated  environments. However,  there  is a 
need  for a global,  science -backed  approach to evaluations, as  AI testing is  still a 
developing  field with few established  global best  practices.  Therefore,  Salesforce  

415 Mission  Street 
San Francisco, 
California 94105 
Salesforce,  Inc. 
/salesforce  
@salesforce   
 supports  empowering  an organization  to create  a forum  where  researchers  can 
collaborate on  scientific approaches and solutions to AI testing.  
Procurement  & Government  Adoption  
The US Government has a key  role in fostering  AI adoption. It doesn't just set rules  for the 
private sector but  can lead  the way in deployment. AI  in the public sector promises to 
increase government  efficiency, improve decision -making,  and streamline citizen service 
interactions.  Federal  leadership  also gives  important  signals  to state  and local  authorities.  To 
move ahead rapidly and  adopt AI  with confidence, agencies need  clear signals, incentives, 
and appropriate guidance from policy.  
 
Policy  Recommendation:  Federal,  state,  and local governments should prioritize  the 
adoption of  AI applications with high -level strategies, administrative  guidance, and 
resources that  facilitate  faster learning, experimentation,  and scalable adoption of 
high-impact public  sector use  cases.  In particular,  Salesforce recommends the 
following:  
• The Office  of Management  and Budget  (0MB)  should  issue  refreshed 
guidance leveraging  the NIST AI Risk Management  Framework for  AI, ensuring 
a common  framework  for agencies  to manage  their AI systems  and conduct 
AI risk assessments - rather than agency -by-agency approaches.  
• Streamline  reporting  and impact  assessment  requirements.  
• Maintain  agency  Chief  AI Officers  (CAIOs)  and channels  for cooperation  and 
coordination across agencies.  
• Whenever possible,  state -of-the-art commercially available  solutions  should be 
prioritized to reduce  development and maintenance costs.  
• Maintain  a central  AI use case  library  of public  sector  applications.  
• Create a  central point  for agencies to consult with  experts (government and 
private  sector)  to identify  the best opportunities and paths  forward to leverage 
AI for more efficient work process transformation.  
 
Maximizing  the public benefit from  AI requires a  government that  can move  as fast as the 
private  sector,  while  still respecting  high standards  for security, privacy,  and responsible 
management of government funds. Public sector procurement rules need to be fit for 
purpose so that lack of clarity and outdated ways of managing  government technology 
doesn't slow the ability to experiment  with and deploy the latest tools. This includes 
accelerating  and taking  an appropriately risk -based approach to privacy and  security 
evaluations so they don't become a bottleneck to the way AI  applications are developed 
and used.  
 
FedRAMP has  been  critical  to facilitating  the secure  adoption  of cloud  tools  by agencies  that 
are not  equipped to independently evaluate the security of  technology products. However,  

415 Mission  Street 
San Francisco, 
California 94105 
Salesforce,  Inc. 
/salesforce  
@salesforce   
 while  "do once,  use many  times"  is the right approach,  FedRAMP  is not today  moving  with 
the speed required  to get  a range of innovative AI  tools  in the hands of federal agencies.  
 
Policy  Recommendation : Modernize  and update  procurement  and security  evaluation 
processes  across  government  so that individual agencies  are better  empowered to 
flexibly experiment with and deploy AI, including:  
• Fully  resource  and streamline  the FedRAMP  evaluation  process  to reduce 
paperwork and speed evaluation timelines.  
• Narrow  the scope  of systems  for which  FedRAMP  approval  is required,  e.g. to 
exclude low -risk/ public information systems.  
• Recognize  commercial -grade  certifications  when  appropriate  to the level  of 
risk. 
• Extend Fed  RAM  P's Agile  Delivery Pilot program to  streamline approvals  for 
iterative  projects  that are frequently  updated  with new features.  
 
Data  Privacy  & Data  Flows  
Continued AI innovation and adoption of AI depends on trust, and trust starts from the 
foundation  of clear  privacy  rules.  Today,  data privacy  and security  concerns  are top barriers 
to AI adoption.  Improving  the protection of consumers' privacy rights in the United States 
will accelerate adoption by fostering trust between consumers and companies.  
 
Personal data protection supports AI adoption by setting  clear consumer and business 
expectations for protection of privacy; and preventing and establishing accountability for 
misuse.  It also supports  innovation  by simplifying  compliance  for businesses  of all  sizes  and 
putting  clear rules  around when and how personal data can be leveraged to  train and use 
AI. When  incentivized by  clear  rules,  AI with the right guardrails  is a  privacy  enabler  that can 
minimize  human  error,  excessive collection, or  inappropriate access  and use. 
 
Policy  Recommendation : To ensure  trust and overcome  an increasingly complex 
state -by-state  patchwork,  a federal  law protecting  the privacy  rights  of consumers  
should  be adopted,  based  on the principles  of transparency, participation  or choice  of 
the consumer, and  accountability.  Where  highly  sensitive personal or  commercial 
data are used,  Federal rules  should continue  to support  and incentivize  the use  of 
privacy -enhancing technologies that protect privacy while allowing data to be 
productively used.  
 
Additionally, US  leadership in AI means ensuring  that US tech can be  used  around the 
world. This depends on a stable environment in which to conduct digital commerce and 
transfer data across borders,  free of unreasonable restrictions. American AI providers 
seeking to engage with international markets can face a number of requirements that 
restrict the ability  to transmit and  store  the data that  underpins AI.  These requirements can 
be costly,  and impair  the ability  of American  AI companies  to access  markets  and compete.  

415 Mission  Street 
San Francisco, 
California 94105 
Salesforce,  Inc. 
/salesforce  
@salesforce   
  
Policy Recommendation : The US should take  leadership in  promoting and 
negotiating  bilateral and multilateral agreements that  provide  durable  protections  for 
American  AI and digital businesses  to access  markets  and transfer  data across 
borders seamlessly.  
 
The US has worked with its  European partners to ensure uninterrupted and  compliant 
transfers  of personal  information  from Europe to the  US. The EU-U.S. Data  Protection 
Framework (DPF) has been  successful in facilitating  more  than USD  1 trillion  in trade  and 
investment annually,  including  a flourishing  trade  in AI services.  Its continuance will  ensure 
that US companies can  fairly  access  European markets  and ensure  that European 
businesses leverage cutting -edge American AI  technology.  
 
Policy  Recommendations : The US should  work  with European  authorities  to ensure 
the continued operation of  the EU-U.S.Oata Privacy  Framework  for seamless provision 
of services  from US businesses to  European markets.  
 
Workforce  
It is estimated that  75% of Al's ultimate value lies  in the  "front office," where businesses 
directly interact with  their customers. Yet,   41 % of employee  time is  currently lost to 
repetitive,  low-value tasks  that have  little to do with this essential front -office work.  AI has 
the potential to ease these burdens, allowing workers to focus on  more meaningful and 
strategic tasks, making  work not only more productive but also more  fulfilling.  The global 
workforce must be equipped to use this technology safely and confidently.  
 
As AI reshapes the  way Americans work,  the focus should be  on training, creativity, and 
critical  thinking  skills  that are uniquely  human.  Equitable  access  to AI is essential  so that all 
individuals, regardless of their background or location, can benefit from these 
advancements and contribute to a more prosperous future.  
 
Governments should prioritize collaboration with  civil society  and industry  to equip workers 
with the right skills to  thrive in the new opportunities  created by AI.  It is imperative to 
expand and  invest in public -private  partnerships for workforce reskilling: Governments, 
industry,  NGOs,  and civil society  each  bring  necessary perspectives  and capabilities.  
Policymakers should focus on public -private  partnerships specifically geared towards 
reskilling  the workforce to adapt to the  unique  challenges and  opportunities posed by  AI. 
 
Policy Recommendation:  The Federal government should promote public -private 
partnerships  focusing on  upskilling workers  in industries at risk of AI disruption, 
helping them transition to higher -value roles that involve managing and 
collaborating  with AI systems.  Understanding the  industries  and jobs at risk  of AI 

415 Mission  Street 
San Francisco, 
California 94105 
Salesforce,  Inc. 
/salesforce  
@salesforce   
 disruption  is another  opportunity for  the government  to partner  with relevant 
stakeholders  to produce  quantitative  information  about  the effects  of AI disruption.  
 
Policy Recommendation:  Preparing the next generation  for an AI-first future  is 
essential.  Education and  vocational curriculums  should include  ongoing training in  AI 
concepts, skills, ethical considerations,  and its potential future integration as the 
discipline  evolves.  Educators  should  also be enabled  and reskilled  to integrate  AI into 
the curriculum and meet the needs of future  classrooms.  
 
Policy  Recommendation:  Collaboration among  AI companies, industry,  universities, 
and labor unions to connect AI -ready talent with  suitable job opportunities,  facilitate 
the transition into the  workforce, and develop  AI skills  frameworks that are 
transferable within and between industries.  
 
Competition  
Salesforce believes  that markets and innovation thrive when customers have  free and fair 
choices  to find the solutions  that best meet  their  needs.  However,  when  a few dominant 
enterprises  lock up critical  inputs -directly  or through  partnerships -the choice  is restricted 
and innovation  is harmed.  Regulators  and policymakers must  work  to ensure  that the AI 
space  remains  open  and fair and does  not tip in favor  of incumbent  cloud  infrastructure 
providers who control critical AI inputs, including  infrastructure,  leading  LLM models, data, 
and AI chips . Control  of these  components  by these  companies,  coupled with  vertical 
integration  down  the technology  stack,  has the potential  to lead to durable  market  power 
across AI products and adjacent technologies, such as cloud infrastructure,  office 
productivity  software,  and communication/collaboration  software . Rather  than  AI leading 
to greater competition and  innovation,  as seen  in past  technological advancements, the AI 
revolution  risks  further  entrenching  existing  dominant  incumbent  firms.  
 
A core guiding  value  of Salesforce's generative AI  strategy  is to maximize  choice  for 
customers by being  open, extensible, and model -agnostic in its  integrations with the 
emerging  AI ecosystem.  Salesforce  aims  to enable  customers  to use the LLMs  of their 
choice with Salesforce's services -whether that be a model provided by a third party, 
Salesforce, or the customer itself.  
 
Policy Recommendation:  Globally, competition authorities have been  working to  
understand the complex implications of generative AI on market dynamics and,  in 
some  cases,  assessing the  health  of competition  in this space  presenting an 
opportunity  for global coordination and  collaboration.  Salesforce believes that  the US 
has robust tools  to meet the demands of a rapidly evolving  landscape and would 
urge  the use of this  authority to conduct market studies, maintain an  ongoing  

415 Mission  Street 
San Francisco, 
California 94105 
Salesforce,  Inc. 
/salesforce  
@salesforce   
 dialogue  with industry about market health,  and take enforcement action  where 
needed.  
 
US AI Leadership  
As AI technology rapidly evolves, the United States must implement an  approach that 
reinforces its  position as a  global leader in innovation. Maintaining  US leadership in AI 
means not  only considering policies that drive economic growth or enhance national 
security but  also those  that create  a foundation of  confidence in  the technology.  This is best 
achieved by adopting a comprehensive and forward -thinking  public policy approach that 
results from collaboration,  seeks to  build on  global best practices, and is  agile. Given the 
global nature of many actors in  the AI  ecosystem, the  United States should look to 
continually engage globally to shape the future of technology.  
 
The US has many  tools  at its disposal  to ensure  AI leadership, among  them  NIST.  NIST  has 
proven to be one of  the most effective organizations for establishing voluntary, globally 
recognized standards that are comprehensive,  collaborative,  and dynamic. Their 
frameworks , which are internationally influential, have helped companies large and small 
evaluate  AI practices,  which  contributes  to faster  adoption  of this technology.  Salesforce has 
engaged with  and hopes  to continue engaging  with NIST's AI  RMF  and Playbook, which 
include many of  the measures we have  internalized as  we develop our own  AI technology.  
 
Salesforce believes  in a sensible approach to AI  frameworks, rules,  or guidelines that  are 
interoperable with  global best practices . This sensible approach must also extend to the 
establishment  of standards and  means  for AI testing.  This work  is already being  done  in AI 
safety  institutes  around  the world  and we would  encourage  the US  to engage  in this  global 
collaboration.  They represent additional opportunities for the US to  contribute to the 
creation of  a globally agreed -upon  scientific approach to the evaluation of AI  models.  In 
President Trump's Executive Order 13859 on Maintaining American Leadership in Artificial 
Intelligence (2019) one of the goals was prioritizing AI R&D and collaboration  with 
academia and the private sector.  
 
The US has the  opportunity to lead in finding  a path toward interoperability between 
international standards, schemes, and  protocols.  The emergence of  fragmented policies 
and approaches  to the  responsible development and  deployment of  AI systems  can raise 
the cost of operations for  US AI companies and undermine consumer protections. To 
ensure  US interests,  global  forums  provide  a means  for the US to shape  the global  policy 
discourse to ensure an  approach that  allows  for US market access  and competitiveness.  
 
Policy  Recommendation:  NIST  is highly  relevant  to the AI governance  conversation  in 
the US. The agency  should  continue  to be effectively  funded  and empowered  to enact 
comprehensive AI  frameworks. By  establishing and championing rigorous AI 
standards,  benchmarks,  and best practices,  via NIST,  the U.S. can shape  global  

415 Mission  Street 
San Francisco, 
California 94105 
Salesforce,  Inc. 
/salesforce  
@salesforce   
 regulatory  frameworks  so that American innovations  become  the benchmark  for 
security,  accuracy,  safety,  interoperability,  and ethical  governance.  
 
Policy Recommendation:  Any approach to AI  rules promoted by  the Administration 
should be  both durable  and flexible,  focused on risk -based guidelines to ensure  the 
trusted  development  and deployment  of AI systems.  Rules  for AI should  focus  on the 
outcomes  posed by  AI systems that  result in  concrete  harms  instead of just  the AI 
systems  and models  themselves.  These  rules  should aim  to assign responsibility  and 
accountability  based on companies'  position on the  value  chain , which is rapidly 
growing both in  size and complexity.  
 
Policy Recommendation : Given  that the US is home  to some  of the largest AI  
companies in the world, it is important for the  country to be  actively involved in 
developing better methods  for testing and measuring the  safety and  security of AI 
systems.  If an American perspective is  absent  from  the work  of safety institutes 
abroad,  other viewpoints will  fill thevoid,  potentially lacking the  same  experience and 
insight,  or not aligning  with the same  interests  and priorities.  Salesforce believes this 
effort aligns with the  mission of the Select Committee on Artificial Intelligence 
established  under  the previous  Trump  Administration.  This committee is  responsible 
for coordinating AI  research and policy across  federal agencies to maintain the 
United  States'  leadership in  AI. Salesforce urges  the Administration  to continue  this 
vital work,  but on  a global scale  and in  collaboration with  the various members of the 
AI Institutes network.  
 
Policy  Recommendation : As the US considers  a range of  possible  responses  to the 
opportunities and challenges presented by  AI, it should prioritize  finding global 
consensus  in venues  like the  G7, the Organization  for Economic  Co-operation  and 
Development  (OECD),  or the Association  of Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN).  
 
Conclusion  
It is evident that a cohesive and forward -thinking  public policy approach is  crucial for the 
United  States  to establish  and maintain its  leadership in the rapidly evolving  field of artificial 
intelligence. To  secure America's AI edge,  the federal  government should lead  by example 
in standards  development, governance , and adoption . Abroad,  we must work with allies 
that share our  values to  deter the adoption of detrimental policies that restrict commercial  
access  and impede data  flows.  Doing  so without haste  will boost  economic growth  and help 
safeguard national security . 
 
Salesforce values  the opportunity to  share perspectives and contribute to  the U.S. 
government's  policy  development  process.  We have  long believed  it is the responsibility  of 
industry leaders to  lend expertise for the public good.  We are proud of our collaborations 
and investments in the necessary tools, training , and support for our customers' AI  

415 Mission  Street 
San Francisco, 
California 94105 
Salesforce,  Inc. 
/salesforce  
@salesforce   
 transformations.  Finally,  Salesforce is  grateful  for the White  House's work  to foster a  policy 
and business environment for a bright future with  trustworthy, innovative, and competitive 
AI. 

