PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-m hhf-e5hd
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2471
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Ryan Linn 
General Comment
So, let's start with the obvious: This hurts m ore Am ericans than it helps. Point blank, the num ber of Am ericans working on or involved
with AI to the capacity required to benefit from  this is m inuscule com pared to the num ber of Am ericans who are having their blood,
sweat, and tears from  their hard work harvested en m asse without perm ission to fuel AI developm ent. Those are the Am ericans who
should be protected. Their jobs are what bring value to our country.
AI should have m ore stringent requirem ents on what it can and cannot scrape for its m odels. Without at least written consent of the party
being scraped, that is tantam ount to theft. That would be like som eone buying a Tesla, rem oving the identifying branding and replacing it
with their own car com pany branding and saying "I m ade this car". Anyone with eyes knows that's still a Tesla and Tesla would be within
their rights to sue. Why should that not be the right of the creators that are being used to train these AI engines without their consent?
We want to be the leading voice of AI in the world? Then lead by exam ple, lead by requiring stringent requirem ents of AI engines and
hold them  accountable. We protect our creators and give them  the option to participate in AI training or to opt out and enforce that choice
with the engine creators.
AI has a place, but it can't be at the cost of others. As it stands, AI is the wild west of tech, would it not be m ore prudent to im plem ent
order and process to it than to let chaos reign? If we want our AI endeavors to be successful and not m oney pits that are constantly saved
from  tanking by governm ent loans, we need to look at them  on a fundam ental level and rethink how these com panies generate revenue.
We can't just rubber stam p them  to run wild across the internet and toss copyright to the wayside for the sake of trying to help one
struggling industry at the cost of m ultiple others. I urge you to rethink this idea and go back to the drawing board.


