PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zkop-iu94
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5945
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Eric Watki ns 
General Comment
From :
Eric Watkins
Co-Owner of Vanderkins Leather & Jewelry
Lexington, KY
I'm  unsure if this will fall on deaf ears or not. I worry I m ay be deluding m yself that anyone actually cares. I'm  hoping that for once,
som eone who claim s to be cham pions of sm all business will actually do som ething that benefits a sm all business.
My wife & I m ake original designs & the like for t-shirts, stickers, and m ore. We've worked hard on this for a long tim e. Put a lot of effort
and energy into m aking item s we are proud of. We took all the correct steps to m ake sure our unique designs would be protected from
piracy and theft. 
The AI system s m ade by Big Tech com panies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy thousands of Am erican sm all
businesses like m ine with their recent dem and to create special carve outs in copyright law.
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. My unique work, and the work of hundreds of thousands of
other everyday Am erican creators are taken and fed into these AI system s without our consent or any com pensation. They ingest our
work, reassem ble it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly com peting with us and cutting us out of the m arketplace.
They are stealing from  us. Plain and sim ple. They're looking for you to legalize their thievery.
Please, don't let this happen. Please don't create new copyright exem ptions allowing Big Tech com panies to exploit and steal from
creators and everyday Am ericans without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency.
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech com panies, but rather on ensuring a fair
m arketplace with com petition:
First, the governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective and clearly labeled consent options, so that we
can decide when and where our work is used by AI system s.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is
preserved. Our work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just
Big Tech. Why should Google and Microsoft be allowed to steal from  m e?
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their
training datasets, and label what content is AI generated. Giving them  to ability to pilfer from  m e like a thief in the night without


consequences kills m y sm all business.
I know I'm  not the only one who feels like this. Hundreds of thousands of other sm all business people, creators, & artists want to protect
the hard work they've done over the years. Please do not turn the years of hard labor I've put into our sm all business into yet another give
away to Big Tech corporations. 
Thank you.


