PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-34qg-uo2f
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8852
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Zachary Roth
Address: United States, 
General Comment
As a som ewhat recent graduate of a creative writing program , I find it critically im portant that the allocation of using copyrighted works to
feed into generative AI is highly unethical and should not be perm itted. The creators of such work have not given their perm ission for their
work to be stolen to create inferior products that would ultim ately lead to their replacem ent in the creative fields that showcase the truest
creations of hum ankind. Artificial intelligence is just that, artificial. It cannot replace the hum an spirit when it com es to creating art, stories,
essays, or any other creative endeavor. Generative AI is not the future, and further developm ent into it would be a waste of tim e and
resources. The com panies saying otherwise are m erely trying to profit off of stolen work. The advancem ent of AI will not benefit national
security, and would m ore than likely harm  it as it has been shown tim e and tim e again that generative AI is unreliable and extrem ely error
prone. Allowing AI training on copyrighted works without perm ission would exacerbate this, as m any copyrighted works contradict each
other and would lead to "hallucinations" or false inform ation generated by the AI. Additionally, AI generated content has been seen by the
m ajority as lazy or subpar, further em phasizing that training on copyrighted m aterial is a waste of tim e and resources. People would m uch
rather see the creations of fellow people, not m achines regurgitating stolen work. Furtherm ore, training AI on copyrighted work could leak
sensitive inform ation about businesses and institutions for anyone to see. Such secrets could be stolen and used against such businesses
and institutions. Any prom ises of long-term  profit are false. AI m ay seem  like the hot new thing, but I find it com parable to cryptocurrency
and blockchain technology. Those technologies ballooned with countless resources being poured into them  only for them  to fizzle out and
fall into relative obscurity. Generative AI is just the second com ing of that. Sooner or later, the AI bubble will burst and any resources put
into it will be wasted as the m arkets chase another trend. And in chasing the current trend, it hurts artists and creators as com panies try to
cut corners by elim inating them  for a short-term  profit. The technology is too unstable to invest in, and training it on stolen work would
ultim ately underm ine the copyright system . It's already been ruled that AI generated content isn't subject to copyright, so why should AI
generation be allowed to train itself on copyrighted work? The hum anities were m eant to be hum an, and they should rem ain that way.


