PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-lpvs-owtj
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2415
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
I'm  a freelance artist who has been rigorously creating and practicing m y craft for over ten years now. I, like m any of m y fellow artists and
creatives, am  strongly opposed to any developm ent of this Generative AI action plan.
It would be devastating to sm all businesses, artisans, writers, m usicians, and so m uch m ore. As I understand though, the current
adm inistration has dem onstrated very little interest or concern in our well being. So instead, I will focus m y com m ents that will hopefully
highlight som ething that you actually care about.
Encouraging the pursuit of Generative AI will be highly disruptive to even governm ent officials. GenAI will be used against you as it is the
m achine that thrives off of m isinform ation. Being well known and highlighted individuals who clearly have a controversial appearance in the
public eye, you have been and will continue to be m anipulated and depicted in ways that you would likely never approve of.
Even m oney will be affected. You, and any com pany that uses large language m odels will actively lose m oney. By pursuing Generative AI,
corporations would likely be incentivized to exploit stolen data trained off of copyrighted assets. The general nature of GenAI produced
content m akes this content incapable of being copyrighted or tradem arked itself, m eaning that no m atter what a com pany m akes, they will
not be able to claim  ownership over. 
To top it off, consum ers have becom e increasingly distrusting of GenAI affiliated products. Whenever AI is specifically m entioned, or if
GenAI can be rem otely seen, consum er's intention for purchasing declined. People distrust writing if they even rem otely fathom  it being
written by Generative AI system s. GenAI cannot think, it can only steal and will even spout m isinform ation that it m im ics on the internet.
GenAI search results have even recom m ended m aking food with dangerously inedible ingredients like glue, bleach, stones, and so m uch
m ore as it cannot distinguish satire from  genuine advice. 
By prom oting the USA as the central powerhouse behind GenAI, you are directly advertising and stating that the United States of
Am erica is proud to be farce, cheap, and faulty. For the sake of trust and security, I urge you to not push forwards on the artificial
intelligence action plan.


