PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-m gu5-nk5o
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2469
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: I want to rem ain anonym ous.
General Comment
No m atter how m uch we, the real artists of the world, yell and scream , we will forever be ignored by you, the law m akers and executives
of the world. For now, we can protect us from  copyright infringem ent. It's in the law, and it's awesom e. But who protects us from  greedy
lawm akers and executives, whose interests are only to m axim ize profits, and m inim ize efforts?
While I don't know what's being discussed behind closed doors, I want to rem ind you, that if you ever plan on allowing AI com panies to
train their m odels on all content in existence freely without consequences, copyrighted or not, it will put us artists at risk of losing our jobs.
Jobs, we've worked decades for. AI art will never be true art, it will never have soul. It's just repetitive, soulless, boring slop. Slop, that is
passable enough for you executives and lawm akers of the world.
So, go ahead and pass the law that allows all AI com panies to train their m odels with copyrighted content, without fearing any
consequences. Go ahead and live your boring life with passable AI slop all around you, only designed to please you and not care about
you. Go ahead and fill your wallets with m oney, and your souls with lifeless slop. And then, when you start dying and deteriorating with
80, you probably won't even notice, you're already dead. Alive, but not living.
In case it hasn't been clear; I'm  obviously against any plans of a law that allows any com pany to train their AI m odels with copyrighted
content, without any consequences. I want com panies to face consequences and high fines, if they ever train their AI m odels with
copyrighted content.


