PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2uz5-phfw
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8913
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Jenna Nolasco
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
PublicCom m ent


March 14, 2025
From:
J. Nolasco
Re: National Scienc e Foundation’s Request for Informati on on t he Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (A I) Action P lan
I am an everyday American who owns a small visual design business which serves clients in the 
entertainment industr y. I have worked hard for years to develop the skills and knowledge to build 
my business, and have been lucky enough to make a decent living and support my family – until 
recentl y.
The AI systems  made by Big Tech companies lik e OpenAI (Microsoft)  and Google 
threaten to d estroy th ousands o f American s mall businesses lik e min e with th eir recent 
dema nd to create  special car ve out s in copyright law.
AI systems can only be produc ed by first traini ng on work made by people. My uni que work, and 
the w ork of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American cre ators was taken a nd fe d into 
these A I systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest our work, reassemble 
it, and th en sell it back to o ur clients – d irectly c ompeting w ith us and cutting u s out of the 
marketplace.
Now thes e Big Tec h companies ar e aski ng this administrati on to creat e exceptions and 
loopholes to m ake th is practice o f stealing A merican c reators’ copyrighted w ork le gal precedent. 
They are  suggestin g that if a machi ne ingests  and reproduces copyrighte d work, it  is somehow 
suddenly “fair u se”.
They s eem to believ e that anythi ng and everythin g on th e internet – regardless of who owns it  –
should b e theirs for th e taking. They claim th at if this administration d oes not allow th em to 
rewrite th e law in th is way, it will stifle A merican innovation.
Instead, it will have th e opposite e ffect. The p urpose o f American c opyright law is to 
protect the incentiv e to creat e and innovate.
If we th e American people d o not own o ur creations, and e verything w e put online w ill be stolen 
by Bi g Tec h giants, what will be t he incentiv e to creat e? If everyday Americans creat e a new 
innovative p iece of computer code, a n ew visual design, or a n ew p iece of music o nly to h ave it 
immediately s tolen b y Go ogle and M icrosoft, why b other creating it in th e firs t place? H ow w ill 
we possibly mak e a livi ng doi ng thes e things?


Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and
everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
●First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
●Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that
the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense
economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original
creators, not just Big Tech.
●Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what
content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard
work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright
law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


