PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1m m 9-excm
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7594
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
AI is the latest grift in a long line of grifts from  people who care m ore about m onetizing tech than actually im proving the world with it. For
years big proponents of LLM generative AI m odels have waxed poetic about what great good it could do for the world and not a single
bit of has solidified in the slightest. Neural Networks are interesting tech and can in the right fields be used for great benefit (like when a
cheese detecting algorithm  turned out to be good at identifying cancer cells), but that's not what com panies like OpenAI care about or are
even offering. They aim  to sift through the grand wealth of hum an ideas and creative works and sell it back to you like a culturally defunct
hotdog. All around us in the world are signs that the snake oil generative AI com panies are peddling are m aking things worse. People
ditch windows 11 for windows 10 to get away from  it, Google provides dangerous lies in place of real inform ation, eBook stores are
increasingly getting clogged by 0-effort AI generated nonsense. For the com panies creating this to have the gal to beg the public to let
them  claim  stake to everyone's words, thoughts and creations, is insulting. I, and m any like m e, insist that these plagiarism  peddlers be cut
off at the source. They have already violated copyright law and public trust as it is, for these grifty tech startups have one goal: to becom e
so entrenched in the world they can't be rem oved before their illegal actions catch up to them . Don't enable the grift, don't enable the theft,
don't allow unproven tech com panies that are only held up by hype gained from  outright lies to gam e the econom y with nothing worthwhile
to offer in return.


