PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1cvq-vp08
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7350
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Mary Oliva
Em ail:  
General Comment
Artificial Intelligence is a term  with a nebulous definition not expanded on here or in the executive order, m aking it potentially extrem ely
overreaching into the statutory rights that govern Am ericans and Am erican businesses.
The “AI” industry, especially in its generative capacity, is itself artificially held up by its theft from  copyright holders across the US and the
world. Executives in AI com panies have adm itted that the m odels are nothing without the illegal incorporation of others’ intellectual
property via “scraping.” Not investigating the actions of these com panies against those rights-holders would be a clear unequal application
of the law.
This could ruin the livelihoods of countless innovators and artists through the theft of their work.
Then there is “AI” search engines scraping the whole of the internet, legitim ate sources and fiction, and often providing false, m isleading, or
“hallucinated” answers. It has been shown to cite scientific papers that don’t exist and m ake up legal precedence. 
With that level of problem s, it should not be relied on for inform ation — and that is without digging into how its confusing am algam  of
inform ation again takes away from  actual people by preventing visits to websites that have the inform ation searchers are actively looking
for.
Artificial Intelligence, especially its generative form , have also been shown to use excessive am ounts of energy. Adding processing
locations in the US m ay strain the grids of nearby com m unities at the best of tim es, and cause their power costs to increase as people
com pete with com puters serving people in far flung locations.
Large language m odels and m achine learning have places in closed system s, but the push for AI across the board is inherently exploitative
and will harm  people across the US, while benefitting a handful of com panies by allowing them  to com m it widespread theft of other
peoples’ creations.


