PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-y1ey-bdpm
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4771
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I'm  concerned about the rising energy costs of training and hosting large scale AI m odels. While the environm ental protections in the US
seem  to be dim inishing under the new adm inistration, the Earth and it's inhabitants still suffer under the every increasing threat of clim ate
change and carbon em issions. In addition, the intellectual property the AI consum es is often not regulated resulting in lots of original work
being stolen without proper com pensation or credit. Another im portant area that m ust be kept at the forefront of AI developm ent is
m aking sure the AI m odels are safe, secure, and have the proper safe guards are vital to ensuring that AI is useful for people, not a
detrim ent to them . Proper safe guards should be in place not only to prevent sensitive inform ation from  being revealed to bad actors, but
should ensure that people are aware of the dangers associated with putting sensitive inform ation into AI. Lastly, a college student, I see
too m any of m y peers using AI to get through their classes, letting them  breeze through work with little knowledge being applied and
eventually rendering their degree useless. This will have grave consequences with the new and upcom ing workforce who aren't able to
practice the supposed skills they would have learned in college. This is especially true in the younger education system , where students
aren't critically thinking about the m edia being fed to them , not allowing them  to think for them selves, and having adverse consequences on
their ability to filter inform ation. Due the covid pandem ic (and other factors), students are progressing through grades without being able to
read, write or understand m edia properly, which will affect their com petency later in life. AI is being used as a crutch rather than a
supplem entary tool to learn, and this will have dire consequences in the future.


