PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zepu-y49k
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5800
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Any AI that requires the theft of intellectual property in order to succeed is com pletely and utterly unethical. This is not a m atter of
Am erican superiority in AI, it's a m atter of Am erican businessm en wanting to further m axim ize their profits by replacing skilled Am erican
workers with autom ated replacem ents. The only people that are uplifted by this is the already wealthy, and provides no benefit for the rest
of the country. It, in fact, will only harm  them  and thus this cannot be allowed to pass.
If an AI system  requires training to succeed, it should be on m aterial that has naturally entered the public dom ain or has been approved to
be used by the creators of the m aterial - preferably with som e m anner of reim bursem ent to the latter for their assistance. An opt-in
approach rather than an opt-out, and should 100% be held to by the law to only use this m aterial rather than giving private com panies
carte blanche to steal intellectual property - Am erican or otherwise. This would allow the Am erican populace and foreign allies to assist in
the im provem ent of AI developm ent and be properly rewarded for their efforts rather than having their work stolen from  them .
In addition, the environm ental and energy issues caused by such training need to also be m onitored and addressed. Any developm ent
should and m ust include attem pts to lim it the am ount of energy used and the harm  it causes to the environm ent in line with any other
preexisting laws and agreem ents - and perhaps should require additional rules and oversight specific to m itigate its dam ages.
Circum venting these will sim ilarly cause m ore harm  than good to the United States.
If a system  cannot function without theft of intellectual property and unnecessary am ounts of harm  to our country's resources and
environm ent, then that is its own failing and thus should fail. It should not be propped up and granted special privilege to perpetuate its
crim es and dam age in order to succeed. It im poses and hinders the freedom s and rights of the Am erican populace - past, present, and
future. Because while there are already m any ways letting this pass will cause im m ediate harm , there's potential for this ruling to set a
precedent that will further im pinge upon and reduce the freedom s and the rights of US citizens in the future.
The only correct way to m ove forward with this - if it should be allowed to do so at all - is with appropriate oversight and laws in place in
order to protect the creative liberties and intellectual property of the Am erican populace and its foreign allies, as well as the health and
safety of the nation's resources and environm ent if not the world as whole. Not further elevate only the wealthy and further reinforce the
idea that laws and rules do not apply to them , as that only further weakens and harm s our nation as a whole.


