PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-xu92-c933
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4868
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Kyle Trott 
General Comment
Attached is m y com m ent via a pdf, but for text here these AI com panies cannot be allowed to get away with wanton infringem ent on the
rights of other com panies and individuals properties.
Attachments
March 14


March 14, 2025  
From: 
Kyle Trott 
Graphic Designer & Embroiderer 
Re: National S cience  Foundation’s Requ est f or In formation on the De velopment of a n 
Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
I am an everyday A merican who o wns a small visual de sign business which serve s clients 
in the e ntertainment i ndustr y, alongside e mbroidering for s evera l local small and large 
businesses . I have worked  hard for y ears t o develop t he skills  and knowledge to build m y 
business, and have be en lucky e nough to m ake a decent li ving and support my f amily  – 
until recentl y. 
The AI  systems made by B ig Tech c ompanies like OpenAI  (Microsoft)  and Google 
threaten t o de stroy th ousands of A merican small businesses like mine with  their 
recent dem and to c reate special carve outs in copyright l aw. 
AI systems can only be produced b y ﬁrst training o n work made by people. My unique work, 
and the w ork o f hundreds of thousands of other e veryday A merican creators was t aken and 
fed i nto these AI s ystems w ithout our co nsent or a ny compensation. T hey ingest our work, 
reassemble  it, and then sell i t back  to our c lients – directly  competing wi th us and cutting 
us out o f the m arketplace. 
Now these Big Tech companies are asking t his administration to cr eate e xceptions and 
loopholes t o make this p ractice of s tealing A merican cr eators’ co pyrighted w ork legal 
precedent. They ar e suggesting t hat i f a machine i ngests and reproduces copyrighted w ork, 
it is somehow suddenly “fair u se”.  


 
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns 
it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow 
them to rewrite the law in this way, it will stiﬂe American innovation.  
 Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to 
protect the incentive to create and innovate.   
 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be 
stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new pi ece of music only 
to have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the ﬁrst place? How will we possibly make a living doing these things? 
 Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new 
copyright exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.  
 
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big 
Tech companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:  
  
• First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI 
systems.  
  
• Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so 
that the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has 
immense economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the 
original creators, not just Big Tech.  


 
 
• Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, 
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.  
 
I am not anti -technology or anti -AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these 
AI systems, and ﬁnd them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacriﬁce the 
hard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to B ig Tech by rewriting 
copyright law.  
 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues. 
 


