PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2r0u-xyfz
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8538
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Jam es Hunter
General Comment
If the U.S as a governm ent body cares to keep its citizens protected from  china sourcing our inform ation, it would deny OpenAI the free
reign of copyrighted m aterial. This would allow china to m ore easily jum p ahead in the AI race considering their open-source m odel. Not
only is copyright protecting the am erican people from  foreign countries, but any laws allowing private sectors to train AI would also
possibly put private governm ent data at risk, as it'd m ake it m uch easier to steal when consolidated in som ething that can "accidentally" be
leaked to the internet. Those fam iliar in tech should be quite fam iliar with the fact that anything used on the internet can and will be
com prom ised by bad faith actors from  foreign com petitors. Not to m ention a loose-based operation of these AI scraping m ethods puts
the results from  the data at risk were anyone to purposely "poison" the m achine learning, resulting in m ajor set backs and untold losses
from  the investm ents m ade to AI. 
The losses com panies are experiencing already have started to becom e m ore apparent even considering that an investm ent is often long-
term  without m uch return for years. The unfortunate reality is that a significant am ount of the population is too anti-AI for this return to ever
be worth the m onetary risk. If anything, AI should be trained on copyright free data and should be im proved until it can no longer be
recognized as AI as it can be now. Only then will it truly be worth the risk of m ajor investm ents. AI is too young for any valid risk of data
to foreign com petitors from  loosening the restrictions on online data.


