PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-hfis-sl3v
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2118
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
As an artist, I do not consent to m y work being fed to m achine learning program s so that they can “learn” and replicate aspects of m y
work for little to no m oney (I certainly don’t get paid for letting Art Station and Instagram  scrape m y art). And yet, alm ost every platform
I have used in the past has eagerly adopted AI scraping and data training, and I have seen well-established artists such as the late Kim
Jung Gi have their art replicated by AI, poorly. We are being exploited. Why should we create and feed the program s that would not exist
without our creations when we have not agreed to do so? I personally have stopped sharing art on platform s such as Instagram , which
openly states it will train its AI on any publicly available data, such as the drawings I post. How am  I to m ake m oney, let alone a living, in
circum stances like this? Any version of keeping m y art out of m achine learning com es in the form  of hidden opt-out requests that m ay or
m ay not be accepted. This is unacceptable. If the US wants to dom inate the AI world and age we have ahead of us, the governm ent
needs to protect its people and their rights first, not the starry-eyed am bitions of private sector technology developers who are eager to
take without consent. Essentially we are doing the work for them , and what do we have to show for it?
For creative works—visual arts, m usic and audio, writing, acting (the SAG-AFTRA strike of 2023 was in part to protect actos from  AI
editing and influencing their perform ances or appearances) there m ust be regulations in place to protect creatives. AI is cool in theory—
but so far it has been largely unregulated, and letting com panies do what they want with data and work we have created has only created
dull and soulless results, for one (m achines cannot experience the world and form  art from  em otional interpretation of such experiences),
and is putting people out of jobs. Lionsgate has adopted AI for m aking film s going forward, looking to alleviate costs of special effects
and story boarding crews, which are hum ans with livelihoods they can no longer entrust to that studio. It’s not a m atter of “adjust find
another job or different field” when com panies increasingly adopt AI use by training algorithm s on artists’ work so they don’t have to pay
artists. 
Ethical training issues aside, AI data centers consum e absurd am ounts of energy, and if the U.S. wants to harness the technology of AI
they need to have sufficient m easures in place to counter the power consum ption. Using m assive am ounts of water to cool servers and
potentially building literal nuclear power plants are not sustainable options (we don’t need m ore nuclear plants threatening to m elt down or
em anate radiation into the neighboring areas).
I don’t think regulations on private sector developers are unnecessary. We as a country need to focus on protecting what we have first
before reaching out to obtain som ething we don’t have yet. When people and their right to the work they create are safeguarded from
exploitation, and when we have energy and power system s in place that are robust enough to handle m achine learning en m asse, I believe
we will be ready to lead the world in AI. Otherwise, we’re running with our shoelaces untied.


