PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-k4qz-6ws2
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2309
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
Our February 2025 sales declined 49.15% com pared to 2024, thanks in large part to Google's AI Overviews significantly reducing our
website traffic. As a m anufacturer, we don't consider this winning and at this rate we will be lucky to be in business in 2026. Unlike
Chegg, which has sued Google, m ost sm all m anufacturers and publishers don't have the financial resources to file lawsuits and nor should
we. Governm ent has the responsibility to ensure free m arkets exist and thrive, but unfortunately AI Overviews puts everyone doing
business online at risk of perm anent closure. Who is winning now, besides Google? Am azon, Walm art and the other m arketplaces known
to peddle Chinese goods with ads on Google.
To win the AI race, AI Overviews m ust be rem oved from  search so that we Am erican m anufacturers aren't quarantined off from
consum ers. If we fail to take action on AI Overviews now, the result will be m ore Am erican m anufacturers elim inated which would m ake
the country even m ore reliant on China for the finished goods Am ericans consum e.
As it pertains to AI com panies having the Governm ent's perm ission to scrape copyrighted works, there could be benefits only if it were
used in a closed system  and not used publicly to destroy entire industries like AI Overviews is doing. Regardless, any policy negotiated
should also dem and the rem oval of AI Overviews from  search since its use has already inflicted irreversible econom ic dam age on m any
industries. We m ust also be m indful of where the need for data ends. For exam ple, to cure diseases do we as a society give AI access to
all Am erican patient m edical records? These are tough questions to ask, and there m ust be lim its put in place that are core to our
Am erican values which include privacy, the right to prosper and receive the financial benefits from  our hard work.
Please strive for balance in creating an action plan, because right now AI Overviews is threatening every other type of business trying to
be a productive participant in an inform ation driven society. Thank you for reading m y com m ents, and have a good day.


