PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 88-lvsc-rpzo
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1310
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: J D
Genera l Comment
Why are you continuing to give these paras ites light treatment when they’re stealing everything they can get their hands on to replace it 
with cheap, lower grade slop that ruins every single place it touches? Did I miss the declaration that the current administration of the 
United States are thieving communists? These A.I companies should already be in prison for large scale theft, not asking the President to 
make it legal!
The U.S.A creative industry to my knowledge adds a value of $1.1 trillion to the U.S. economy, 4.3% of the country’s GDP. Yet the 
country is expecte d to side with people, one of which being a freak accused of fingering his own sister, who have failed to provide 
anything of worth? Elites from Silicon Valley who’ve filled the internet with unreliable data, pornography of all stripes, falsified 
photographs of the President sucking Elon Musk’s toes and worse?
And that is just the creative industry. What other areas of the U.S.A economy will A.I companies, who have already proven to be 
worthless by themselves, destro y in the name of profits they’ve yet to make?
This doesn’t just affect people with intellectual propert ies either, but anyone who wishes to show any type of photograph online for others 
to see. Why am I expecte d to share anything online, which was already a risky prospec t before, if I have no legal right over what I 
prese nt? Does the President and others in government like the idea of photographs of themselves being used for whatever purpose any 
perso n using A.I software wants?
As a foreigner I can say this, if the U.S.A goes through with this pathetic idea to let Open A.I and other companies upend copyright, 
destroy the creati ve industry and what safety the internet has, then there is utterly nothing I’d want from your country. Your creati ve 
exports will be machine generated s&^% not worth stealing, yet alone buying. God know s what other American industries or 
services I’ll end up labelling as worthless if this madness continues. I’m already wondering if I should leave my own country over the 
govern ment consideri ng a similar change in law. America is not going to attract me to it by doing the sam e.
If Ch ina truly wants to becom e a &^% nation full of peopl e incapabl e of doi ng anything whose main export is degenerati ve 
pornography  and lies, let them . But if Presiden t Trump and the United States wishes to have any respect in the world then they’l l tell 
these compan ies to obey th e law like everyon e else an d produce someth ing of actual value, not toy s for the retarded that requ ire 
large scale theft. Though the funny thing there is, as far as I’m aware, Ch ina has in fact placed ru les an d regulations on these 
compan ies. So they’v e done more to  protect my rights than th e United States or th e United Ki ngdom have as of late.
Frankly as far as I’m concerned these companies shouldn’t be allowed to use public domain at all. But if they do exist, maybe the great 
America can at least insist they be create d fairly without destro ying large swaths of what made your country great? Or is President Trump 
and the Republican Party just the servants of West Coast , Silicon Valley elites who’ll do as they’re told?


