PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-ufm u-a9kn
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3393
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Brad Arnett 
General Comment
I am  a firm ware engineer in an industry heavily invested in the use of AI. As som eone who then directly interacts with AIs on a daily basis,
I can definitely see the applications and appeal for their use as a tool on the job. However, like m any tools, it can be the wrong one will
yield disastrous consequences if m isused.
I believe that AI is an essential interest to the country. I think that m uch m ore research needs to be done establishing a m eans of
distinguishing hum an produced work from  the AI facsim ile intended to im personate it. The best way to safeguard the future of AI is to
prevent its m isuse in the creation of copyright violating content, and to m andate that it not infringe copyright during its training. This creates
a legally defensible harbor from  which AI as an industry can further grow and m ature.
I do not think that AI should ever be used in any circum stance involving decisions of policy, enforcem ent, or in any other function within
the norm al operation of the governm ent to any degree. There is no m eans of achieving transparency or oversight while, at the sam e tim e,
the dem onstrations of its fallibility present them selves on a daily basis. AI used in this capacity would be a bad deal for Am erica and its
people.
There is a fam ous slide from  a slide deck that IBM produced in 1979. In it was a slide discussing the ethics behind letting com puters think
and do for us. In it, it sim ply read "A com puter can never be held accountable, therefore a com puter m ust never m ake a m anagem ent
decision." This fact rem ains true now m uch as it was then.
I am  an Eagle Scout; civics and com m unity are both im portant to m e. The concept of m achines m aking decisions that im pact the lives of
hum ans beings is utterly abhorent. It does not belong in a country Abraham  Lincoln once literally said was "of the people, by the people,
for the people". Do not allow this untested, unreliable technology to becom e the new replacem ent for governm ent.


