PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 88-z5dn-bffh
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1364
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Association of Hom e Appliance Manufacturers
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
AHAM Com m ents_NITRD AI Action Plan RFI_March 2025_FINAL


March 14 , 2025 
Via regulati ons.gov 
Faisal D'S ouza 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development 
National Coordination Office  National Science Foundation 2415 Eisenhower Avenue Alexandria, VA 22314, USA 
Re: AHAM Comme nts on  NITRD’s  Request for Information on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Dear Mr. D’Souza: 
On behalf of th e Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers (AHAM), I am writing to 
provide our comments to the Office of Science and Technology Policy’s Networking and 
Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD)  National Coordination Office 
(NCO)  on its Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan; 90 Fed. Reg. 9088 (Feb. 6, 2025 ). AHAM  supports the development of an AI 
Action Plan that defines AI, recognizes the different areas of potential digital activities, and 
reviews regulations developed prior to the advent of AI for needed updates. These plan elements will help the agency develop policy actions needed to support AI innovation and ensure that 
unnecessary burdensome requirements do not hamper such innovation. 
AHAM consider s digital activities and their impacts in four categories: 
•Safety : protection of life, limb, and property;
•Cybersecurity : protection of digital networks;
•Privacy : protection of the consumers’ personal data; and
•Interoperability : creating an Internet of Things where connected devices can seamlessly
“talk” to one another.
Like many indust ries, the home appliance industry is still trying to determine how rapid  
advances in AI can be deployed in terms of product design and consumer use cases. As part of 
their innovative initiatives, o ur member companies are making those determinations on an 
individual basis. Any government AI Action Plan should keep these four activity areas at the top -
of-mind for consumer electrical and electronic devices  and AI development should not 
compromise progress made in the four categories described above. Any regulations should be clear,  protect  consumers, and not burden innovation. 
We note that f rom a policy and government perspective, there is no clear and commonly 
accepted  definition of AI , particularly as it relates to consumer product applications. 
Development of a definition could be a worthwhile result of an AI Action Plan. T he term “AI” is 


used both with simpler  rule-based algor ithms and automation and with systems that ha ve 
authentic learning and adaptive capabilities. Clear definitions will differentiate between these 
two approaches to product design and may, ultimately, lead to more informed consumer choice. 
Clarity also supports innovation and decreases the possibility that future regulation will be burdensome by providing a consistent understanding to innovators early on. 
An AI Action P lan should also include a review of government regulations developed before the 
advent of AI to determine whether there are potential conflicts between existing government requirements and AI development.  This is critical to ensure regulations do not unnecessarily 
hamper innovation. 
AHAM apprec iates the opportunity to submit comments to NITRD  regarding its Request for 
Information  and would be glad to discuss these matters in more detail should you request.     
Respectfu lly submitted,  
Sriram Go pal 
Senior Director, Regulatory Policy & Circular Economy 
About AHAM : AHAM represents more than 150 member companies that manufacture 90% of 
the major, portable and floor care appliances shipped for sale in the U.S. Home appliances are the heart of the home, and AHAM members provide safe, innovative, sustainable and efficient products that enhance consumers’ lives. The home appliance industry is a significant segment of 
the economy, measured by the contributions of home appliance manufacturers, wholesalers, and retailers to the U.S. economy. In all, the industry drives nearly $200 billion in economic output 
throughout the U.S. and manufactures products with a factory shipment value of more than $50 billio n. 


