PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0m 3e-rcoq
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6745
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Julie Levy  Email: 
General Comment
Generative AI algorithm s are dangerous and should not be given leave to use resources and steal art. There is absolutely no reason we
should not be concerned about both ends of this problem , and very little benefit anyone gains from  the use of this type of AI. Our plan
going forward should be to strictly lim it these com panies and their program s, not to broaden their access.
First, I want to address the environm ental cost. These are resource-intensive processes, requiring m ore and m ore servers, which produce
m ore and m ore heat, and consum e m ore and m ore water. Clim ate change is already overheating our planet and drying our sources of
fresh, potable water. Anything that we do that increases that consum ption of our only livable earth needs to be absolutely necessary-
which this absolutely is not. I have never seen any use case for this kind of AI that is nearly as effective as hum an input, let alone im proves
upon it. There can be no reason, therefore, to allow this pillaging of our hom e to continue.
Secondly, the m odel of generative AIs is build upon stolen m aterial, and it gets worse and worse over tim e. They cannot create new
m aterial, only rearrange what is scraped from  the internet. That m aterial is both problem atic, containing as it m ust the worst parts of the
hum an psyche, and stolen. Many of the artworks, pieces of writing, and m ore that the AI uses to m ake m ashups from  are privately owned
and should never be taken for free or without credit. But even m ore than that, as m ore and m ore AI-generated content floods the internet,
the AIs becom e worse copies of them selves, degenerating into incom prehensible product as they m ix together their own already-m ixed
copies.
Please choose to regulate AI training m aterials and lim it their usage to reflect this situation. There is no justification for doing otherwise.


