PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 13, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 87-krgh-r7b2
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1192
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Lucy Jacobs  
General Comment
My nam e is Lucy Jacobs and I am  a 2nd sem ester senior at Avonworth High School. I studied generative AI and its im pact on writing for
television for two m onths in a course on AI and Ethics this year. From  m y research, I think current adm inistration's viewpoint on AI
regulation is contradictory. A very im portant value of the republican party is creating new jobs, but by fully supporting AI unregulated, AI
m ight take m ore jobs that it can create. Every aspect of life should be m et with som e m oderation to create a healthy balance between
discipline and indulgence. That's what m akes the good parts of our lives so good, that we occasionally experience it, and therefore adding
m ore value to it. Though I don't believe AI has the talent or creativity to fully replace screenwriters in television, it certainly has the
capabilities to be abused by hum ans in that field. By allowing AI to becom e fully unregulated, the Trum p adm inistration isn't allowing
television to ever be the sam e, for better, but m ostly for worse. Recently, m ovies such as Em ilia Perez and The Brutalist have faced
controversy for using AI in their film s for voice m odulation. This serves as an exam ple that productions are taking shortcuts rather than
hiring people that can actually do what is asked of them . AI was used in Em ilia Perez to polish high notes the actors would sing, but there
exists singers who already can hit high notes without the use of AI. In the Brutalist, AI was used to m ake Hungarian speaking characters
sound m ore accurate, but there exists excellent actors who can speak English and Hungarian. Controversies like these will only be worse
and m ore frequent without any regulation of AI in film  and television, because nobody will feel the need to take any accountability.
Artificial Intelligence has the potential to innovate without costing people their jobs or their integrity. Regulations wouldn't m ean hindering
all innovation for AI, it would just m ean restoring the balance between work from  hum ans and work from  com puters.


