PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-wqyh-6um l
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4016
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anon Ym ous
Address: United States, 
General Comment
Generative AI does not have a future in the markets a nd industries that Silicon Valley is heavily pushing to adopt t his technology. It ope nly 
steals cop yrighted materials wholesale, mostly without consent or k nowledge from t he peop le being stolen from, the gen. AI companies 
have stated t hat they need to keep stea ling tons of data a nd media in order to make pro fit — which is unrealistic and unsustainable — a nd 
some corporat ions like M icroso ft have begun backpeda ling some gen. AI projects as t hey are start ing to rea lize the market t hey were 
hoping to have for these prod ucts isn't there. Gen AI is deep ly unpopular with the public as t he results pro vide incorrect data, at t imes fatal 
to peop le's health, media created with gen AI looks a nd reads terr ible, and using it only creates further stra in on po wer grids and data  
centers when we should be p ursuing ways to back o ff data ce nter re liance and power usage in order to c urb global warming and make 
our future somewhat less bleak than it's already looking to be. Last but not least, gen AI has ruined jobs in creat ive industries as 
executives are a ll too ea ger to try a nd rep lace creat ive employees, or have those e mployees "edit" gen AI output, which is known to 
create more unproductive work than it saves. All these executives are n't pushing for gen AI — or b itcoin or NF Ts before it — beca use 
they think it's the future, they're pushing for these po nzi scheme technologies beca use they invested too much money in them and don't 
want to see their foolish squanderi ngs — I mean investments — go down the drain that it will inevitably fall into. To them I say "tough 
s&^%" , you probably have more than enou gh money an yway, why don't you put it towards publ ic program s that will actual ly better 
society  instead, like affordable housing or someth ing.


