PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-r9sq-35dz
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2930
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Thom as Davidson  
General Comment
Training AI on copyrighted works should not be considered fair use. Allowing com panies to continue this practice would be disastrous
both for the econom y and for the individual lives of countless creatives across m any fields. Further, I believe it is unethical, inconsistent
with legal precedent, and would lead to further long-term  consequences.
Consider what would happen if these AI m odels were to continue im proving, and were legitim ized by this "action plan." Profit-driven
com panies would not pay hum an artists, m usicians, writers, etc. when AI can do the job quicker and cheaper. People who had som ething
unique and valuable to contribute to society would no longer be able to do so; instead they would be forced to do unskilled work or be
unable to find work at all. 
AI will not create new jobs anywhere near the scale of the jobs lost. When the econom ic activity of hum an creative work disappears, that
also m eans less tax revenue to fund the governm ent. It's only a m atter of tim e before this extends to nearly all jobs, creative or otherwise,
as businesses seek to cut costs with AI. What happens when the m ajority of Am ericans are unem ployed?
Generative AI does not com e up with its own ideas; it adds nothing new that it didn't take from  hum ans. However, it will have fewer new
ideas to consum e when hum an artists are pushed aside. Hum ankind will creatively and culturally stagnate when we rely prim arily on AI-
generated works to inform , entertain, and inspire us.
Finally, I would like to address the criteria typically used to evaluate fair use today as I understand it.
1. Regarding the purpose of the use, it is com m ercial - a point against fair use.
2. Regarding the nature of the works used, m any of them  are novel, copyrighted, and otherwise not helping the case for fair use.
3. Regarding the portion of the work used, the nature of the technology m akes this im possible to m easure. However, it has been
dem onstrated that AI som etim es reproduces im ages it has been trained on nearly identically. I think this should be a point against fair use.
4. Regarding the effect of the use on the m arket for the original work, generative AI unquestionably devalues the works it is trained on.
I hope given these factors, the econom ic consequences, and the potential degradation of what m akes us uniquely hum an, you will agree
that training AI on copyrighted works should not be considered fair use. 
Thank you for your tim e.


