PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 13, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 87-kk0b-1sxd
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1188
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Lexi Man nion 
General Comment
My nam e is Lexi Mannion, and I am  a graduating senior from  Avonworth High School. My academ ic focus has included an in-depth
study of Generative AI and its societal im plications. In particular, I dedicated two m onths to researching the application of AI within early
childhood education for m y AI and Ethics course. My findings suggest that the current adm inistration's approach to AI regulation strikes a
necessary balance between fostering innovation and ensuring responsible im plem entation. I believe that AI holds significant potential to
enhance educational outcom es. In specific scenarios, it can provide valuable support to educators while sim ultaneously cultivating essential
digital literacy, creativity, and problem -solving skills in children. As Adriene Shannon articulates in her work on AI in ECE, "If Aidan
recognizes that Tom m y is struggling with m ath, but excelling in language, Aidan can prom pt m ath and language activities at different
paces." This dem onstrates AI's capacity to leverage data analysis for personalized learning, catering to individual learning styles, paces,
and interests. While the integration of AI is inevitable, U.S. legislation m ust evolve to keep pace with rapid technological advancem ents.
The Kids Online Safety Act, initially proposed in 2021, aim s to protect m inors' data on social m edia platform s. However, it does not
address the data collection practices of web service providers and educational institutions. If schools decide to integrate AI into the
curriculum , ongoing dialogue should bring fam ilies together with schools so everyone can help children benefit from  AI while m inim izing its
potential harm . While AI offers substantial benefits in education, innovation and regulation need to be balanced. In essence, AI offers
trem endous potential to enhance educational experiences, but we m ust approach its integration with a thoughtful and balanced
perspective, ensuring that innovation is guided by responsible regulation and ethical considerations.


