PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-uqpq-bngl
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3488
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Jacob Holmes 
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
AI Action Plan Com m ent


 March 15th, 2025 
From:  
Jacob Holmes,  
Freelance Illustrator 
 Regarding the topic of intellectual property and AI training. 
     It cannot be stressed enough that a world in which AI companies have the freedom to use 
anyone's copyrighted data, without permission, to train their AI models, is a world in which 
neither American AI technology nor creators prosper in the long run. In this scenario, creators 
are not incentivized to continue producing the material that AI models rely on to function. Why 
should they? They would only be contributing to their own obsolescence, inadvertently feeding 
AI models, only for these models to compete against the original creators in their own 
marketplace, at a cost too cheap to compete with, or, for free.      Generative AI requires increasingly large amounts of data to improve model quality. The 
solutions proposed, wherein AI companies have total freedom with training data acquisition, or 
that of an opt-out system, in which rights-holders have the ability to mark their intellectual 
property as off-limits from future AI training (after it has already been used, or illegally 
redistributed), are heavily flawed and short-sighted, offering AI growth only in the short term, 
and at the cost of sacrificing America's creative industries.      It is my belief, as well as the overwhelming majority of professional creatives I know of, that 
the system for obtaining AI training data must be opt-in oriented. Permission must be granted 
from rights-holders, in the form of licensing, to companies wishing to use their valuable data to 
train AI models. In this scenario, creators of training data are incentivized to continue creating, if 
it means they can continue making a living doing so. This also ensures a steady stream of new 
training data for future AI models, creating an environment of mutual growth for both creators of 
training data and AI developers.      It is imperative that those responsible for developing this AI action plan, deeply consider the 
ramifications of altering copyright law in the favor of AI companies. For over two centuries, 
copyright has been the bedrock from which professional creators have been enabled to 
financially prosper from their work, contributing greatly to the US economy. We are now at a 
crucial moment, where we are at risk of throwing it all away, for the sake of a technology that 
isn't even guaranteed to deliver on its promises.      There is a future in which all parties can prosper. I implore you to consider the concerns of 
not just the big names of big tech, but of regular Americans, small businesses, and professional 
creators, who helped build this country, and can continue to help in the age of AI. Thank you for 
your time. 
“This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents 
may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.”


