PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-1b46-d6rt
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1762
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Linda Mäki-Su lkava 
Address: Finland 
Email: 
General Comment
”AI dom inance” cannot be achieved by destroying the last bits of privacy if there ever was privacy on the internet to begin with. With
unrestricted ai usage the society will com e m ore lifeless, artificial. In the ’best’ scenario the state is destroying people’s living because of ai
and corporate greed. What jobs will be left for hum ans if ai is going to be used for everything? It is already known ai usage will m ake
people m ore stupid, is this what the com panies want? So they are easier to control when they don’t express critical thinking anym ore? In
an ai world, m ore and m ore people will stay poor and jobless in the long run because ai is not creating m ore jobs, it is destroying them . In
China, the prom ised land of ai, m odern ai is a tool from  the heavens to control the citizens and give them  points how good and loyal they
are to the ruling party. How can it be ensured it won’t go to the sam e way in the US in the future? Ai com panies now are m ilking hum an
m ade content for free, without consent or the ability to even say no (or get the illegal data out of the dataset) which should be illegal.
Photos, videos, art, 3D m odels, books, social m edia posts, voices, sounds, everything, nothing is sacred for an ai com pany. Furtherm ore,
ai has already becom e crim inals’ favorite tool to scam  people to get their m oney or spread propaganda/false inform ation. Which pretty
m uch is what the com panies do as well. Steal som ething from  a hum an, use it to m ake som ething ”new” and sell it back to the hum an
telling it’s som ething revolutionary you can’t live without. There are things ai is useful for - science. Things like physics, chem istry, biology,
m edicine. In which ai probably have been used for years before these greedy com panies and their applications. So yes, ai needs to be in
thight control. The dam age they cause is probably very hard or im possible to fix afterwards


