PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0f1k-ax1n
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6581
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Tyler Allen  
Email: 
General Comment
As som eone with a Ph.D. in Com puter Science, it has been truly shocking to see how big tech has pulled the wool over the public's eyes
with regards to Generative AI. Generative AI has been oversold and and it has drastically under-delivered. There is no product. 
There is no reason for AI training to be exem pt from  legal copyright restrictions. AI is profiting off the backs of hard-working Am ericans
at no cost. These large com panies, like OpenAI and Google, are aware that they are stealing and this is why they are pushing for
deregulation. If the shoe was on the other foot, they would sue individuals into the ground over this.
We are due an inevitable econom ic crash over AI, and this is an attem pt to offset that. Continuing to push this off will just deepen the
dam age. Hold AI com panies accountable, pay workers a fair wage, stop gutting the Am erican Econom y for a fraud.
It is obscene these com panies ask the US Governm ent for $5 Trillion on one hand, and then beg to be able to steal data on the other
hand. Meanwhile, they cry fowl when AI output is used to train other m odels. You cannot have it both ways.
If anything, there should be further regulation and restriction on AI to prevent it from  causing the kind of dam age it has already caused to
our econom y. Training these m odels for academ ic purpose has always been fair use, but pretending that trillion dollar com panies are being
"disadvantage" because they m ight have to pay for use of data like everyone else is disgusting. 
I urge the rejection of all of these proposals. Let artists and creators own their work, as has been the precedent for over a century.


