PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-354q-63hs
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8855
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
Regarding the National Science Foundation’s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
As an Am erican Content Strategist, writer, and editor that is enthusiastic about both technology and creative pursuits, I am  extrem ely
concerned about the way m any players in Big Tech are handling AI developm ent, safety, and intellectual property rights.
These AI system s threaten to destroy thousands of Am erican jobs and sm all businesses with their disregard for copyright and dem ands for
retroactive special carve-outs.
AI system s are m ade by copying works at a m assive scale to “train” on, and these com panies have already done so without consent or
paym ent. These m odels take work they have no rights to and reassem ble it to replace the people who created it. They use it to com pete
with us and elim inate our jobs and incom e
These com panies want the adm inistration to create exceptions and loopholes to legitim ize the theft of creators’ copyrighted work and
provide a legal precedent while bypassing the courts and legislative process. They want to avoid giving sm all businesses and everyday
Am ericans their due process and com pensation. 
All content on the internet is not free for use without com pensation and attribution, and feeding copies into a m achine does not m ake it
“fair use.”
If com panies are given free reign to use anyone’s intellectual property sim ply by feeding it into a m achine, especially one that com petes
with the IP holders in the process, we will lose the incentive to create and innovate as well as the entire creative econom y– not just in
entertainm ent, but anywhere art and writing are needed in business as well. 
Our nation has been built on the idea that people own what they create. Their writing, art, code, designs, m usic, and m ore have value–
why will they create if it is to be im m ediately stolen by Google and Microsoft and used to create a cheaper alternative? How will
individuals and sm all businesses m ake a living creating?
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus on ensuring a fair m arket built on the traditional Am erican values, freedom , and just
com pensation. A plan that gives Big Tech carte blanche is no free m arket at all.
The governm ent should ensure an opt-in fram ework so creators and everyday Am ericans can give perm ission for use and decide when
and where our work is used.
Transparency is key. Training datasets need to be openly disclosed, so that their contents can be trusted and attributed. Clear labels
should also be im plem ented so viewers can tell what content is AI generated.
Any AI Action Plan should ensure that creators are paid for work AI com panies use. That m ay com e through a licensing m arketplace, a
tax on AI that distributes profits to creators, or som e other form , but fair paym ent m ust be rendered. If this work didn’t have value, the AI
com panies would not need it— so they should pay for it. If they cannot afford to, then how valuable was the AI to begin with? We do not
allow crim e sim ply because a business cannot profit without it, and the sam e should apply here.
To protect Am erican innovation, protect Am erican creators. Do not allow or m ake new copyright exem ptions that let Big Tech com panies


exploit and steal from  everyday Am ericans.
I love technology and see potential in m achine learning and AI, but the path forward m ust protect Am erican creators, incentivize their
continued work, and ensure that com panies pay for the content they use.
Thank you for the opportunity to com m ent on these im portant issues.


