PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-fu8x-gz3f
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2023
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Amanda Luhn 
General Comment
While AI is here to stay, that does not give Big Tech the carte blanche to use other's work and present as their own. Google uses AI
overviews to censor publishers it doesn't like by rem oving them  from  the results page. And through AI overviews, it takes their work and
presents it as its own with the express purpose of keeping users on Google and not on creator's own website, therefore keeping ad
revenue and incentivizing sponsored posts as the only way people can have their own work be seen after Google takes it. 
If we don't have copyright protection, then what is the point for any sm all business to create anything new? For too long, AI has been
used to copy every creator's work on the internet without their perm ission- Generative AI doesn't "know" anything so the only results it
can possibly com e up with are by looking for what others have created already. That is a feature, not a bug of the system . 
Big Tech whole m odel of profitability for AI is based on theft and eventually, it will drive out sm all publishers who form  the backbone of
the internet. Then we will have the sam e crap regurgitated in a m ultiple ways but without any real knowledge at its base. Is that what
everyone wants? 
Copyright law has been seen as im portant since the 1700s and intellectual property rights were seen as im portant as physical property.
Would you be okay if AI cam e by and took your car and gave it to som eone else because it was asked to create a black pickup truck
with 4 doors? That is essentially what is happening here. 
We have a chance to steer the developm ent of AI away from  blatant theft and into a truly useful tool for Am ericans to use. Sim ilar to how
Napster was shut down but Spotify im proved on it to becom e the better (and legal) version. But it was a Swedish com pany who did it
because they wanted to prove that you could have a better option than stealing. Why can't an Am erican com pany find a better way than
stealing? Maybe its our laws and that is where you com e in.


