PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-vbvx-3kzl
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3542
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Ivan Varela 
General Comment
To Whom  It May Concern, 
I am  writing this public com m ent regarding Executive Order 14179 (Rem oving Barriers to Am erican Leadership in Artificial Intelligence). I
oppose the proposals set forth by this executive order; I strongly believe that artificial intelligence technology poses risks to Am ericans if
there are no restrictions or requirem ents placed upon it. The technology is still too new, and not well-understood by the public; AI
technology could create significant issues regarding public trust and safety if it’s left unsupervised. Therefore, I highly urge the federal
governm ent instead increase the num ber of restrictions on artificial intelligence technology. 
Most crucially, the federal governm ent m ust restrict the content that m ay be used to train AI m odels. As it stands, anything can be used to
train an AI m odel: copyrighted m aterial, personal photos, existing artwork and m ovies, social m edia posts, the list goes on and on. Worse,
this m aterial can be obtained and used to train m odels without the original owner’s perm ission. This is a significant violation of our citizens’
privacy, and private com panies’ work. Freedom  is one the m ost im portant tenets to Am erican society; the public should have the freedom
to choose whether they contribute to Artificial Intelligence, rather than have that choice m ade for them . Private com panies should also be
confident that they have control over their copyrighted m aterial and intellectual property; an AI m odel that can create content based off
copyrighted m aterial is no better than copyright infringem ent. 
To rem edy this, I propose that Congress create policies that give com panies and citizens the ability to a) voluntarily opt in to train AI
m odels, b) opt out of AI m odel training at any tim e, without restrictions, c) select specifically what m aterial will be sent to train AI m odels,
and d) require private com panies to only use m aterial that fits this criteria, nothing m ore. Additionally, federal policies dedicated to
im proving transparency on AI-generated content m ust be passed. Content generated with artificial intelligence m ust be clearly labelled,
and content that falls under this category but is undisclosed m ust be punished. Citizens m ust be able to tell what content is created with AI;
not only will this ensure that hum an-created content continues to be seen, but citizens who choose to use AI technology will be able to
m ake m ore inform ed decisions on what m odels to use or train. Congress m ust also swiftly reintroduce the protections set forth in
Executive Order 14110; Am ericans need to know that, if they choose to, they can use AI technology safely. Furtherm ore, Congress m ust
continue seeking to create policies that focus on protecting citizens and com panies that do not want to train AI m odels. If we wish to use
this technology, we m ust do whatever it takes to ensure it’s used safely and responsibly. 
In addition to protecting the freedom s of citizens and com panies, the federal governm ent m ust also invest in com bating deepfake
technology. Deepfakes are a type of Artificial Intelligence technology that can create realistic depictions of real people—m im icking their
voice, appearance, and m annerism s. If left unchecked, this technology could spell disaster for national security. Anyone could create
defam atory or incrim inating videos of public officials--eroding trust in our dem ocracy, and in other nations. Private citizens could be
depicted perform ing acts they never did, or prom oting ideas they do not agree with. Malicious groups and individuals could use this
technology to sow violence and distrust in our nation, causing significant harm . If the federal governm ent wishes to continue to be trusted
by its citizens, and to ensure national security, it m ust com bat deepfakes and do so swiftly. 
To do this, Congress m ust create policies specifically com bating the m alicious use of deepfakes. There m ust be clear and harsh
consequences for using deepfakes with the intent to incite violence, defam e other people, perform  espionage, or otherwise perform
harm ful, m alicious actions. Additionally, the federal governm ent m ust assist in this process. Whether by existing federal agencies and


com m issions, or the creation of new ones, the federal governm ent m ust take an active role in com batting this serious threat. 
I understand the desire behind prom oting the developm ent of a new and exciting technology like Artificial Intelligence. However, I believe
that supervising and restricting powerful technologies like AI will benefit Am ericans, not only in the present, but for generations to com e.
What we do now in AI’s early stages will have lasting effects on our future; it’s critical that we nurture this new technology, and ensure it
grows into som ething that benefits—not harm s—our nation. I hope that Congress and the federal governm ent continue to seek ways to
protect Am ericans’ freedom s regarding Artificial Intelligence technologies.


