PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-kdkw-poq7
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1649
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Tyler May field 
General Comment
By allowing AI to no longer heed by copyright law, this will irreparably dam age hundreds of thousands of livelihoods. When an algorithm
takes over art production, it isn't m erely soulless but puts the jobs of anim ators, scriptwriters, artists of both physical and digital m eans,
m usicians, and gam e designers in danger. Being outsourced to a m achine m eans these Am ericans are no longer getting paid for their work
and m ay becom e financially unstable.
It would also dam age any industry related to art on all levels from  the hum ble internet artist on social m edia to the largest m edia
corporations in the nation including Disney and Dream Works. That has the potential to worsen the econom y itself.
As for fears regarding the safety of the US governm ent and its people, AI being held accountable to copyright violations will very likely
not have an effect on this. The death of copyright law does not serve the interests of the Am erican people or the state itself, rather it serves
those who own AI com panies which will com e at the cost of the average Am erican. They seek to fill their own pockets rather than aid the
nation.
The final reason is the cultural im pact. The usage of AI would m ake art redundant, and the developm ent of new art is foundational to a
culture as m uch as language and background. The ubiquous culture of the US would go into decline as "slop content" entirely overtakes
anything m ade by hands and souls. The US is frequently said to not have a culture, which presently is not rem otely accurate. However,
allowing an algorithm  to steal art and use it for itself would result in the US losing the m assively influential culture it currently possesses.


