PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-y10t-1wux
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4992
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
aiopencom m entperiod2025


March 15, 2025
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am an everyday American who works as an artist and cartoonist, including in the public arts and 
entertainment industries. I have worked hard for years and gotten a MFA to develop the skills and 
knowledge to build my business, and have been lucky enough to make a decent living – until recently.
The GenAI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten 
to destroy thousands of American small businesses like mine with their recent demand to 
create special carve outs in copyright law.
AI systems can only function by first training on work made by people. My unique work, and the work 
of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators was taken and fed into these AI 
systems without our knowledge, consent, or any compensation. They ingest our work, reassemble it, 
and then sell it back to our clients – directly competing with us and cutting us out of the marketplace. I 
personally have lost work due to clients who would rather have a machine imitate my style by 
STEALING from me first!
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions to make this 
practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a 
machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow suddenly “fair use”.  They seem to 
believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it, who created it, or 
how personal or private that information or image is! – should be theirs for the taking. They claim that 
if this administration does not allow them to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American 
innovation. They are wrong.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to protect 
the incentive to create and innovate, and to ensure that creators are able to benefit from their 
hard work.  
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big 
Tech, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new innovative piece of 
computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it immediately stolen by 


Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? Certainly why bother sharing it online? 
In an industry where online marketing is basically required, we will have no options for getting our 
work in front of people, and social media websites and the internet at large will be abandoned by 
creatives. How will we possibly make a living doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday 
Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
•First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective 
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
•Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the 
incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic value, 
so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not Big Tech.
•Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, requiring 
them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI 
generated. There should be options for people to have their data deleted from these datasets if 
they so choose.
We should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big 
Tech by rewriting copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


