PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3abx-05x8
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8965
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Lucas DeRuyter
General Comment
From :
Lucas DeRuyter
Publicity Special ist
Studio City, Re: National Science Fou ndation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intel ligence (AI) Action 
Plan
I am an everyday American who owns a sm all visual desi gn busi ness which serves cl ients in the entertai nment industry. I have 
worked  hard for years to develop the ski lls and know ledge to bu ild my busi ness, and have been lucky enou gh to make a decent 
living and support  my family – until recentl y.
The AI systems made by Big Tech co mpanies like Ope nAI (Microso ft) and Google threaten to destroy t housands of American small 
businesses like mine with their rece nt demand to create spec ial car ve outs in cop yright law.
AI systems can o nly be prod uced by first tra ining on work made by peop le. My unique work, a nd the work of hundreds of t housands of 
other everyday American creators was taken a nd fed into these AI systems without our consent or a ny compensation. They ingest our 
work, reasse mble it, and then sell it back to o ur clients – d irectly competing with us and cutting us out of the marketp lace.
Now t hese Big Tech co mpanies are ask ing this administration to create e xceptions and loopholes to make this pract ice of stea ling 
American creators’ cop yrighted work legal precede nt. They are s uggesting that if a machine ingests a nd reprod uces cop yrighted work, it 
is somehow suddenly “fair use”. 
They seem to be lieve that anything and everything on t he internet – re gardless of who owns it – should be t heirs for the taking. They claim 
that if this administration does not allow them to re write the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the oppos ite effect. The purpose of American cop yright law is to protect t he incentive to create a nd innovate. 
If we the American peop le do not own our creat ions, and everything we put online will be sto len by Big Tech giants, what will be the 
incentive to create? If e veryday Americans create a new innovative piece of co mputer code, a new visual des ign, or a new piece of music 
only to have it immediately stolen by Google and Microso ft, why bother creat ing it in the first place? How will we poss ibly make a living 
doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new cop yright exemptions that allow Big Tech 
companies to e xploit and steal from creators a nd everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or tra nspare ncy.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator co ntent to Big Tech co mpanies, but rather on e nsuring a fair 
marketp lace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators a nd everyday Americans give effective consent, so t hat we can dec ide when and where 
our work is used by AI systems.


Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is
preserved. Our work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just
Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their
training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
I am  not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am  consistently im pressed by the capabilities of these AI system s, and find them  incredibly useful for
m any things. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Am ericans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting
copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to com m ent on these im portant issues.


