PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-jkj3-492l
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1637
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Trevor Morgan  
General Comment
Hello OSTP, NITRD NCO, et. al,
I'm  a professional video gam e developer of 6 years who has a vested interest in AI as a future potential aide in developm ent. My job
necessitates I work with a lot of artists, program m ers, and designers with various opinions on the subject. The biggest controversies over
AI has been the lack of transparency on dataset contents, training m odels for profit on data without express perm ission or license to do
so. This should be m ade m ore clearly illegal, that AI works are not im plicitly original works. Continuing to keep this question in legal lim bo
without enforcem ent hurts the copyright interests of dom estic sm all businesses and individuals by allowing m assive conglom erates to
circum vent copyright law by feigning ignorance about where their training data com es from .
I think the best way to tackle this issue is to tackle the causing issue - the lack of privacy protections online. A com m on proposal is stricter
tracking laws in the US sim ilar to the GDPR in the EU which would em power the freedom  to privacy and keep Am ericans' copyright
rights intact. Part of m y job is working with Personally Identifiable Inform ation, and as I have custom ers across the globe I com ply with
the GDPR. The burdens on services are negligible com pared to the benefits the average citizen gains. I would go further and say that we
should codify DoNotTrack options as a m andatory com pliance rather than a suggestion to the website.
Another concerning issue on the infrastructure side is the power consum ption of training m odels. We need to change how we price
electricity to a m ore com m on-sense approach. If a facility requires a ton of power, they should be eating the cost of producing that power,
not having it distributed to all grid uses. This could be handled by utility com panies directly if given the proper authority.


