PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3wi0-n51x
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9534
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Brian Love 
General Comment
Actions taken by m achine learning and "artificial intelligence" com panies like OpenAI, Anthropic, and others to train their m odels has
m assively dam aged the public by outright stealing data to which they have no right. These actions cannot be allowed, nor are they
necessary in order to develop cutting-edge m odels to keep the United States com petitive in the world.
The concept of "fair use" involves several pillars - the nature of the copyrighted work, the am ount of the work used in relation to its whole,
the effect of the potential m arket for the original work, and lastly the purpose and character of the use, including whether it is of a
com m ercial nature. In their collection of data, OpenAI and sim ilar com panies took data in its entirety, that was never expected nor
intended to be used in this m anner, and created COMMERCIAL products that dam age the im pact of the original. These actions could be
defended when they were pure research projects, but once they becam e com m ercial products, the actions cannot be defended as "fair
use".
This wholesale collection of data is not needed in order to keep Am erican m odels com petitive in the world. Com panies like DeepSeek
have dem onstrated m assive advances in m odel developm ent by using their resources (in this case com pute) in a sm arter m anner. The
sam e thing can in all likelihood be done with data - use public-dom ain and legitim ately-licensed data in a sm arter way, rather than just
throwing all data into their m odels. This would likely result in m ore efficient use of com pute resources, further enhancing Am erica's
position in the m achine learning industry.
Instead of the m assive theft of data, com panies like OpenAI, Facebook, and others MUST be required to properly license all data that
they use, or stick to public dom ain sources. There should also be lim its to how m uch of any one work can be used - no m ore than 10% of
any given work. Furtherm ore, any data that was used should be com pensated to the original author, in a m onetary m anner.
These changes would resolve the theft issues while keeping Am erica com petitive.


