PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-18yw-6a9h
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7576
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Tevin Wiggins 
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
White House AI Action Plan Com m ent Letter from  TW


Instructions on submitting for the “Request for Information on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan” by the National Science Foundation 
Thank you for taking the time to submit your public comment! Comments must be submitted 
by 3/15/2025 by 11:59 pm EST!! 
1.Copy the letter found on two pages after this page into a new text document.
2.Fill in the appropriate sections for [YOUR NAME], [YOUR PROFESSION], [YOUR
ADDRESS] near the top of the letter, or remove those if you intend to submit
anonymously.
3.Feel free to use the letter as is or adjust it to your preference, or write your own.
4.Export your document as a PDF, DOCX, or similar.
5.Go to this URL:
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/02/06/2025-02305/request-for-informati
on-on-the-development-of-an-artificial-intelligence-ai-action-plan
6.Click the green “SUBMIT A PUBLIC COMMENT” button near the top of the page.
7.Under “Upload File(s)” click the green button “+ Add a file” and attach your exported
document. The “Comment” field will now say “See attached file(s)”.
8.You are not required to put your email address in the “Email” field, but do so if you want
to track your submission.
9.Select an option under “Tell us about yourself! I am”: if you are submitting as just yourself
select “An Individual”. You may also choose “Anonymous”.
10.If you selected “An Individual”, put in your first and last name in the respective fields, you
are not required to fill out any more information.
11.Check the box “I read and understand the statement above” which acknowledges that
any personal info you included will be viewable on the web.
12.You may preview your comment to double check everything by clicking “Preview
Comment”.
13.Click the green “Submit Comment” button.
14.You’re done! Please submit by 3/15/2025 by 11:59 pm EST.


March 14, 2025 
From: 
[YOUR NAME] 
[YOUR PROFESSION] 
[YOUR ADDRESS OR AT LEAST CITY, STATE] 
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
I am an everyday American who owns a small visual design business which serves clients in the 
entertainment industry. I have worked hard for years to develop the skills and knowledge to build 
my business, and have been lucky enough to make a decent living and support my family – until 
recently. 
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google 
threaten to destroy thousands of American small businesses like mine with their recent 
demand to create special carve outs in copyright law. 
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work made by people. My unique work, and 
the work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators was taken and fed into 
these AI systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest our work, reassemble 
it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly competing with us and cutting us out of the 
marketplace. 
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. 
They are suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow 
suddenly “fair use”.  
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to 
rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation. 
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to 
protect the incentive to create and innovate.  
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen 
by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new 
innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it 
immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will 
we possibly make a living doing these things? 


Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and 
everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency. 
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition: 
●First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent, so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
●Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that
the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense
economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original
creators, not just Big Tech.
●Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what
content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard 
work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright 
law. 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues. 


