PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-kv68-e7g4
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2359
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
As som eone working in the independent publishing industry, the sudden boom  in AI creation and content creates a few concerns that m ay
cause harm  not only to m y particular profession, but to the wider public. The technology itself is undoubtedly im pressive, but if used
im properly there are a num ber of ways it could prove dam aging to sm all business owners and stifle innovation. 
1: Granting big tech firm s or big publishers the right to peruse copyrighted m aterial at will in order to train their m odels will enable them  to
profit off the work of sm aller creators, essentially m aking it im possible for sm all business entities to adapt or grow and leaving the control
of inform ation in the hands of tech firm s that m ay use that advantage to censor or control the flow of inform ation as they see fit. 
2: Copyright protections are vital to m any creators and reward individuals for their hard work. Am erica is vaunted for providing the
opportunity for anyone to succeed given they put in the work and effort required to create a quality product. If those protections lapse,
culture will be decided by a tiny num ber of tech firm s, who will be able to suppress not only the hard work of individuals, but to sink the
rise of sm aller firm s to challenge them . Innovation in m any creative and non-creative fields will becom e not only difficult but nearly
im possible. If Am erica wishes to distinguish itself in the worldwide m arketplace, it m ust allow sm aller businesses and individuals to push
their industries forward, and to do so they m ust hold som e protections against the larger tech firm s who would eagerly pilfer and profit
from  their work. 
3. Big tech firm s have dem onstrated tim e and again that they will place their own interests in front of the country's when it com es to
collecting data. Allowing them  unfettered access to copyrighted m aterial would allow them  to sell that data not only to each other, but to
foreign firm s, essentially holding Am erican work ransom  for the highest bidder.
Thank you for taking the tim e to listen to m y concerns.


