PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-yvvy-m or2
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5341
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Macken zie Ewing 
General Comment
I am  adam antly opposed to allowing big tech com panies to continue stealing copyrighted works to train generative AI m odels. All of the
progress we're seeing with this technology right now is fueled by a blatant, whole-sale disregard of copyright law and the rights of both
individuals and corporations. We can not and m ust not reward this flagrant disregard of legal copyright status by undoing U.S. copyright
protections. We would never reward a bank that profits by scam m ing its clients by legalizing the scam s they were conducting, or reward a
corporation that illegally m anipulates its stock prices by legalizing pum p and dum ps.
While it is true that copyright laws in the U.S. have been extended to an unreasonable num ber of years to benefit the interest of entities like
Disney and Warner Records, the reform  being pursued by big tech is an unacceptable extrem e in the opposite direction. Not only does it
allow them  to continue exploiting the work of hum an creators to feed their data m odels - m odels that are subsequently replacing those
sam e creatives' labor - but it would allow anyone, corporation or individual, to pirate and exploit any creative work or software program
so long as they claim  it is being done for the purpose of AI developm ent.
Please tell these tech com panies no. They need to be held accountable for this theft. If the business m odel of OpenAI is unsustainable
without piracy, then their business m odel is unsustainable period. They should have considered that before violating copyright law.


