PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-wxys-h80j
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4114
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am  an artist who has the privilege of working with other artists as part of m y dayjob in m erchandising. I have experienced the struggle to
get paid a fair wage for art (illustration, design, anim ation, etc) firsthand and I take pride in being able to ensure artists are com pensated
fairly at the sm all US com pany I work for. 
I, as well as the countless artists I work with, have spent years of our lives building our skills and knowledge so that we can create work
that is of value to our clients and is enjoyable to the public. 
AI com panies are now arguing that m y work and the work of all these artists I work with are "fair use" because it's available to view
online. They're trying to alter copyright laws so they can scoop up all of our hard work so that their system s can regurgitate it into an
approxim ation of art. Not only is this an affront to art, but it will destroy countless sm all businesses like m y own independent business and
the sm all com pany I work for by directly com peting with us WITH OUR OWN STOLEN WORK.
Copyright isn't perfect but it exists for a reason - to protect artists and help ensure they can survive on the work they create. Do not let AI
com panies disregard copyright. This will not encourage innovation or encourage artists to create m ore - it will drive us out and force m ost
artists to stop creating.
AI com panies cannot be allowed to use art without the consent of the artist. What they are doing is not derivative and not fair use. They
are building their apparatus directly on stolen art and stolen labor, and that m ust stop.
If AI is to be allowed to continue then it m ust only do so with consent and with transparency. Introduce m ethods of licensing work.
Require all training data sets to be opt-in only. 
And do NOT allow AI to operate in a way that will destroy our environm ent. What is the point of art at all if we can't survive to enjoy it?


