PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2i0u-uw9c
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8333
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: IAn Brey
 Email: 
General Comment
I am  an individual Am erican citizen. I haven't done m uch in m y life or necessarily pushed m yself down a career path. The overwhelm ing
prevalence and push of AIs in current tim es fills not only m yself, but m any friends to dread of their futures. Any action allowing AIs to be
trained unfettered on every kind of data, will create a space where large corporations able to pay for services or host AI services will first
train from  and then supplant real hum ans in m any, m any field sim ply by offering the services for cheaper than what hum ans are able to.
This will cause m any, m any jobs to be lost and likely never to be gained again should these current fetters be stripped. Many, m any artists
of all kinds will lose jobs. Writers, be they creative or technical. Beginner program m ers will be deem ed unnecessary because AI learning
m odels will m ake current professionals m ore efficient. All so those that own the AIs and its services can m ake m ore m oney by hiring less.
Seeing a future where AIs are free to train on whatever they want is one filled with dread, where any field I could want to try and m ove
m y life and interests towards, is shut down because beginner or apprentice workers becom e obsolete because it's just cheaper to use an
LLM.
AI can be and already is a very useful tool, note, TOOL. Fram e interpolation saves 3D artists from  rendering about half their fram es. It
can sim ilarly be used in 2D anim ation to interpolate in between fram es, while the skilled artists create the key fram es that define the
m ovem ent. Spell checker tools have been com m onplace for a while and have im proved as tim e goes on. Neural Networks m ake
reviewing vast am ounts of research papers take m uch less tim e and allow scientists to do science m ore instead of reviewing for hours.
There is so, so m uch that AI/Neural Networks are capable of that focus on benefiting people in m any, m any practices. Allowing them  to
learn unfettered on copyrighted m aterials does not focus on benefiting people, it focuses on the owners of the AI and those large
corporations that em ploy their services, and little else.


