PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0xq5-2iil
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6971
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Ian 
Powers   Email: 
General Comment
The em ergence of generative neural network m odels has seen a large shift in society. I'm  particular, there has been large am ount of friction
between creative artists of all stripes, whether visual, m usical, vocal, or otherwise and the m ajor players behind generative neural
networks.
The friction is based on the fact that the com panies have been downloading and using any m aterials available to them  to train their various
m odels. They do not seek perm ission and do not offer com pensation to those whose m aterials they use. These m odels then go on to
com pete directly with those people it was trained from  in a com m ercial setting. 
In essence, a com petitor to sm aller artists is using their own copyrighted m aterials against them  in a com m ercial activity without
perm ission, attribution, or com pensation. This directly threatens the livelihood of these people and flies directly on the face of Fair Use and
copyright protection.
The com panies will tell you their m odels can change the world and understand things. This is based on nothing. Nothing in the way these
neural networks are trained leads to com prehension. Most com m ercial m odels are little m ore than extrem ely advanced phone predictive
text.
The easiest way to see through this veneer is through what the com panies term  hallucinations, when these networks will m ake a prediction
that is presented as factual or real, but is in reality just a false prediction. There is no com pensating for this error and the reliability of all
m odels is suspect at best. This has been seen across scientific and legal com m unities m ost notably, where hallucinated references to
papers and legal decisions have cropped up and caused issues on m any occasions.
A product that is built on m ass theft, which m arkets itself as intelligent while not being able to truly think, and that seem s to com pete with
those it has stolen from  is wildly out of line. These com panies need to be reigned in and need to train their networks on works they have
the rights to. There are people willing to give their works for training, for com pensation. 
If a com pany cannot exist without m assive theft, it should not exist. Changing copyright to allow for rich com petitors to bully out sm aller
artists will set arts back in the country and the world by decades, if not m ore.


