PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 88-uzle-nns6
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1337
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Land Trust Alliance
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Land Trust Alliance Com m ents Docket No FR-2025-02305


March 15 , 202 5 
Submitted via the Federal eRulemaking Portal  
Mr. Kirk Dohne  
National Science Foundation  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development National Coordination Office  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
RE: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Docket No. FR-2025 -02305  
Dear Acting  Director Dohne , 
Thank you for seeking input from the public on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence ( “AI”) 
Action Plan (“Plan”) . The Land Trust Alliance (“Alliance”)  appreciates the opportunity to submit 
comments on priority topics for discussion within the Plan.  
Founded in 1982, the Land Trust Alliance is a nonprofit corporation and national land conservation 
organization based in Washington, D.C., that works to save the places people need and love by 
strengthening land conservation across America. The Alliance re presents about 950 member land trusts 
nationwide. Alongside our members, we harness three fundamental aspects of the American ethos: 
volunteerism, community spirit and connection to the land.   
The A lliance applauds the National Science Foundation  (“Foundation”)  for initiating a proactive plan  for 
the development of AI and soliciting public input on factors to be considered.  In Executive Order  14156 
“Declaring a National Energy Emergency ,” the Administration  accurately states that  electricity demand 
is forecast to soar in the coming years  that further increases the  importance of “a reliable supply of 
energy and the integrity of our Nation’s electrical grid .”1 This demand is in large part due to th e growth 
in data centers that are estimated to consume  6.7 to 12% of total U.S. electricity by 2028 , up to 580 
TWh  per year2. To maintain our Nation’s electrical grid  integrity , careful planning of AI data centers  is 
needed. This  includ es thoughtful siting  of data centers, their power source and related transmission 
infrastructure . In addition, such planning must seek to  maximiz e energy and water efficiencies . Smart 
siting paired with energy and water efficiency will help to ensure that our grid is reliable and secure  and 
1 Declaring a national energy emergency . https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential -actions/2025/01/declaring -a-national -
energy -emergency/  
2 Shehabi, A., Smith, S.J., Hubbard, A., Newkirk, A., Lei, N., Siddik, M.A.B., Holecek, B., Koomey, J., Masanet, E., Sartor, D.  
2024. 2024 United States Data Center Energy Usage Report. Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, California. 
LBNL -200163 7 


REQUEST FOR INFORMATION ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (AI) ACTION PLAN  – MARCH  15, 2025  
2 can meet the needs of U.S. citizens . It will also keep costs down for ratepayers . Transmission buildout 
costs  associated with AI data center growth  are typically passed along to  the ratepayer , so by 
minimizing that buildout through the approaches recommended herein , the Administration will fulfill its 
goal  of establishing  a more affordable supp ly of energy  for Americans . In addition, d ata center and 
energy infrastructure projects ― including linear transmission and other grid infrastructure  ― can put 
lands with high conservation, biodiversity, forestry, recreation and agricultural value at risk of 
development. These lands provide pure drinking water, healthy food, and clean air ; protection from 
intensifying natural disasters ; and strengthen the economy3. Minimizing the transmission build -out 
required for AI data centers will not only aid in establishing a more affordable energy supply but it will 
also protect all the benefits that our country’s lands provide to all Americans.  
Data Center and Energy Transmission Siting  
Data center campuses can require hundreds of acres  of land , not only for the space needed to house 
multiple  GPU cluster s but also for the advanced cooling solutions , substations and other energy 
infrastructure  required. The demand for large swaths of open space  places growing  development 
threat s to lands with high conservation, recreational and agricultural value , lands  that are already  at 
risk. In addition, poor siting and failure to maximize energy efficienc ies result  in the need to build costly 
new transmission lines. New transmission lines are particularly harmful to lands where private 
landowners have voluntarily exercised their private property rights and contracted for perpetual legal 
protections of the property’s agricultural and conservation values. This form of legal protection is 
known as a conservation easement. As the Administration declares the development of AI data centers 
and their associated energy infrastructure a national interest, t he Alliance urges that the AI Action Plan 
establ ish a goal to  avoid any government taking of a real property right and avoid any impacts to those 
lands  subject to a conservation easement . 
Conservation easements  are a unique legal tool used to keep land in private ownership and on the tax 
rolls while preserving resources vital to the public interest. For private landowners, conservation 
easements are an opportunity to protect land from development and to keep working  agricultural lands 
in production . Landowners also received the added benefit of income from the sale  of the easement  or 
tax savings from the conveyance of the easement. Landowners and their successors retain the right to 
possess and use the land consisten t with the conservation purposes of the easement. Land trusts and 
government holders of conservation easements enter into a voluntary and legally binding agreement 
with the landowner where the land trust holds a real property interest in that land and agre es to 
perpetually monitor and enforce the conservation easement’s provisions. This constitutes a major 
financial commitment by a land trust. Because of the perpetual and costly nature of holding a 
conservation easement, land trust easement holders don’t en ter lightly into these agreements. Instead, 
land trusts have a thorough process for strategic conservation planning, evaluating and selecting 
conservation easements that are consistent with the land trust’s conservation priorities and provide 
public benefi t. Through this process, land trusts work in partnership with the landowner to identify the 
3 Seidl, A., Crossett, C., Greenwell, A, Bennett, D., and Menefee, M., 2023. Public return to private lands conservation  
in Colorado: The Conservation Easement Tax Credit Program. Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado.  


REQUEST FOR INFORMATION ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (AI) ACTION PLAN  – MARCH  15, 2025  
3 important resources for protection, understand the landowner’s conservation goals and desired future 
uses of the land, and finally, to create a plan that best meets the needs of the land trust, the landowner 
and the land itself.  
Through this strategic process, land trusts have worked with landowners to collectively conserve more 
than 61 million acres of land. Recognizing the public value of this investment, the acquisition of such 
conserved lands by land trusts has been incentivized by billions of dollars in state and federal tax 
incentives and grants. At the federal level, conservatio n easements are recognized as a critical tool to 
protect environmentally important forest, farm, ranch, wetland and grassland areas threatened by 
conversion to other uses. Such programs include the U.S. Forest Service Forest Legacy Program, U.S. 
Department of Agriculture Agricultural Conservation Easement Program and the U.S. Department of 
Defense Readiness and Environmental Protection Integration Prog ram.  
In addition, Congress enacted Internal Revenue Code Section 170(h) and the accompanying Treasury 
regulations to provide significant tax benefits to individuals who donate (or who receive a portion of the 
purchase price for the conservation easement and the n donate the remaining value) a qualified 
conservation easement to tax -exempt organizations. States have also prioritized the preservation of 
conservation and agricultural lands by establishing state tax credit programs and grant programs. Forty -
nine state s have created enabling legislation allowing for the use of conservation easements in 
response to increased alarm at the rate  of farmland, working forest and undeveloped land  conversion . 
Conservation easements are key to these policy efforts. Furthermore, they allow landowners to exercise 
their private property rights , ensuring  that their land is conserved  as they wish  while also providing 
other benefits like clean air, clean water and food security .  In sum, protecting conserved lands is a 
shared priority nationwide.  
Irresponsible siting of AI data centers and energy  sources,  and the associated buildout of transmission 
infrastructure , threaten and undermine the billions of public dollars invested by federal and state 
agencies in our natural and working lands and the economic returns associated with those investments. 
Smart siting paired with energy and water efficiencies avoids squandering this enormous prior public 
appropriation of taxpayer funds and instead harmonizes our nation’s shared goals of conserving land 
while supporting the buildout  of AI data centers . As such, the Alliance urge s the Foundation  to include a 
land siting section  in the Plan that calls out the need for  explicit protections for lands subject to a 
conservation easement and avoid s any build -out on such lands.  
Energy and Water Usage and Efficiency  
According to the Department of Energy, in 2023 data centers consumed  176 TWh of power , 
representing 4.4% of total U.S. electricity consumption. With the rapid growth of AI data centers , the 
Department predicts that data center energy consumption could grow to up to 580 TWh  by 2028. A 


REQUEST FOR INFORMATION ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (AI) ACTION PLAN  – MARCH  15, 2025  
4 single AI data center can  require 50 -100+ MW , enough energy to power  approximately 16,400 homes .45 
The Foundation wisely included energy consumption and efficiency as a potential  topic for its Plan, and 
we urge the Foundation to include water consumption and efficiency within that topic as well. As 
discussed in further detail below, AI data centers consume significant amounts of water that 
exacerbates regional water scarcity and shortages . It also increases  the need for costly and energy -
intensive  wastewater treatment . By increasing energy and water use efficiency , not only will the 
operations of AI data centers be more cost-effective  and maintain America’s global competitiveness , 
but it will also lessen the load on the nation’s energy needs and transmission grid, passing savings along 
to all citizens.  
The Plan should detail recommendations, initiatives  and incentives  for new technologies  to keep AI data 
center energy competitive.  The Alliance recommends the Plan detail possible incentives for the co -
location of data centers within close proximity  to existing energy sources to minimize the costs and 
impacts of new transmission infrastructure. Additionally, incentives should be outlined for AI data 
centers to co -locate with renewable energy and battery energy storage systems. These types of energy 
are often quicker and cheaper to site and construct than other energy sources  and will allow fo r 
developers to meet the energy and data needs of America quickly and efficiently.  
The Plan should call for the transmission needs of AI data centers to  be met through the most efficient 
and cost -effective methods  to ensure an affordable and reliable domestic energy supply is possible, as 
called for in the Executive Order “Declaring a National Energy Emergency .” Before new transmission 
infrastr ucture is built, the Plan should incentivize the reconductoring of existing transmission lines  with 
higher -performance  wires (“advanced conductors”), which can rapidly increase transmission capacity at 
a low cost. Advanced conductor s have also been shown to reduce trans mission losses between 10 -
30%6, ensuring more of the energy we produce is provided to consumers.  Other ways to maximize the  
transmission potential of the  existing grid include grid-enhancing  technologies, storage as transmission, 
and identifying underused interconnections.  
Other electricity and transmission  initiatives , technologies , and research and development  that are 
recommended for the Action Plan include : 
•Incentives for industry to share its data on energy use. There is little publicly available  data on data
center energy consumption.  As a result,  there are many uncertainties as to data center energy use
now and in the future,  making it difficult to predict future energy consumption and to plan
accordingly.  For these reasons, the Alliance recommends i nitiatives for the industry to share its data
on energy use , such as power performance standards, reporting incentives and requirements, and
stronger partnerships for better knowledge sharing. This will help to resolve the planning challenges
that follow from  the current data gaps .
4 IEA (2024), What the data centre and AI boom could mean for the energy sector, IEA, Paris 
https://www.iea.org/commentaries/what -the-data -centre -and-ai-boom -could -mean -for-the-energy -sector, Licence: CC BY 
4.0 
5100 Megawatts Per Day: Solar Power on the Rise . https://law.lclark.edu/live/news/28453 -100-megawatts -per-day-solar -
power -on-the-rise#:~:text=To%20put%20that%20number%20in,to%20power%2016%2C400%20U.S.%20homes.  
6 SUPPORTING ADVANCED CONDUCTOR DEPLOYMENT: BARRIERS AND POLICY 
SOLUTIONS   https://www.2035report.com/wp -content/uploads/2024/05/5.3 -Reconductoring -policy -report.pdf  


REQUEST FOR INFORMATION ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (AI) ACTION PLAN  – MARCH  15, 2025  
5 •The use of microgrids to increase grid reliability and resilience while also allowing data centers to
come online more quickly.
•The use of virtual power plants to  optimize data center energy usage to reduce electricity costs,
stabilize the grid, and reduce the land use impact of data center energy needs.
•Direct the Department of Energy to set ambitious goals for energy -efficient  AI algorithms and
software and to then collaborate with the private sector to realize these goals , similar to the
Exascale Computing Project , where “the DOE partnered with industry to successfully achieve a 200x
improvement in energy efficiency for high -performance computing.”7
Innovation in data center water consumption is also needed. AI data centers use large amounts of 
water for cooling and humidification systems. AI data centers can require 550,000 gallons of water per 
day or 200 million gallons per year.8 The majority of data centers get their water from municipal or 
regional water utility companies, directly competing with other community water needs.  
While data centers demand a large amount of water, on average less than 5% of a data center’s water 
supply is currently made up of alternatives to potable utility water, such as greywater (treated sewage) 
or recycled water9. The Action Plan should provide recommendations on how to increase the utilization 
of alternative water supplies , including the use of stormwater retention ponds that address water use 
needs while also providing improved water quality . Data centers should also consider the water 
requirements of the energy providers they utilize and opt for energy production with the lowest  water 
needs.  The cooling systems that help power AI data centers are ripe for innovation for efficiencies in 
water usage. There are tremendous opportunities for federal and private sector collaboration on 
research and development and innovation of  water -efficient  cooling systems .   
By investigating and incentivizing the implementation of these initiatives and innovative technologies to 
decrease energy and transmission infrastructure construction and increase energy and water usage 
efficiency, the AI Action Plan will help minimize the impacts of AI data center development on lands 
with high conservation, biodiversity, fore stry, recreation and agricultural value, while also reducing the 
transmission costs passed onto ratepayers through more efficient electricity and water usage.  
Advancing Administrative Orders  
The Foundation should take the opportunity to use the Plan to advance the Administration’s goals 
around energy reliability, stability and costs to consumers as stated through  Executive and Secretarial 
Orders.  
As stated in Secretary of Energy Wright’s Secretarial Order “ Unleashing the Golden Era of American 
Energy Dominance ,” the Administration has identified the need to “Strengthen Grid Reliability and 
7 https://www.energy.gov/topics/artificial -
intelligence#:~:text=DOE%20has%20a%20track%20record,investments%20in%20high%2Dperformance%20computing.  
8 Data center water Usage: A Comprehensive guide . Dgtl Infra.  https://dgtlinfra.com/data -center -water -
usage/#Where_Do_Data_Centers_Get_their_Water  
9  Data center water Usage: A Comprehensive guide . Dgtl Infra.  https://dgtlinfra.com/data -center -water -
usage/#Where_Do_Data_Centers_Get_their_Water  


REQUEST FOR INFORMATION ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (AI) ACTION PLAN  – MARCH  15, 2025  
6 Security .”10 Our recommendations for the Action Plan to include strategies to reconductor existing 
transmission l ines, establish microgrids in data centers and utilize virtual powerplants for data centers 
are all strategies that will both increase the baseload of our grid while also increasing reliability without 
prohibitive costs.  
In the Executive Order “ Unleashing American Energy ,” the Administration states that  it is its policy to 
“protect the United Stat es’s economic and national security and military preparedness by ensuring that 
an abundant supply of reliable energy is readily accessible in every State and territory of the Nation .”11 
Our recommendations  above, including  that the Plan include strategies for AI data centers to co -locate 
with renewable energy and battery storage sites , will directly further this policy. By ensuring that AI 
data centers maximiz e energy and water efficiencies and cheaply produc e their own energy  with 
battery backup, the Plan will minimize the impacts of data centers on the reliability and availability of 
energy across the country . 
Public Engagement  
One of the greatest barriers to expediency in  the siting and permitting  of energy production and 
transmission infrastructure  is the failure of authorities to avoid disturbance of valuable conservation or 
agricultural lands , which sometimes triggers public opposition that in turn can create delays and 
potentially halt the siting process.  Similarly,  AI data centers run into public opposition when they are 
approved without robust public engagement and consideration of the communities ’ concerns around  
impacts to electricity and water usage , as well as the impacts to local viewshed s and conservation and 
agricultural values.   
It is widely acknowledged that “[l]ocal  efforts to oppose large infrastructure projects [are] increasing as, 
among other things, the country becomes more densely populated and land use assumes greater and 
greater importance. Proposed transmission lines in particular are frequently delayed for m onths or 
years as a result of public opposition, driving up costs to developers and, ultimately, to consumers.”12 
The Action Plan should develop recommendations on how developers should meaningfully engage with 
the public on proposed AI data centers and related infrastructure to address community concerns and 
reduce the costs and timelines for  projects to be completed.   
Additionally, the Plan should recommend that AI data center developers reach out to land trusts serving 
the communities they wish to develop in. Land trusts welcome the opportunity to share their extensive 
knowledge of the location of conserved properties and lands that are priorities for future conservation 
acquisition. Land trusts, as experts in reading the landscape, could facilitate finding an alternative siting 
location  as well as assist in identifying mutually agreeable offset measures such as funding for the 
acquisition of alternative conservation lands of equivalent quality and type.  
10 “Unleash golden era of American energy dominance.”  Energy.gov. https://www.energy.gov/articles/secretary -wright -acts-
unleash -golden -era-american -energy -dominance  
11 Unleashing American energy . https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential -actions/2025/01/unleashing -american -energy/  
12 Americans for a Clean Energy Grid, Recommended Siting Practices for Electric Transmission Developers (2023) 
https://cleanenergygrid.org/wp -content/uploads/2023/02/Recommended -Siting -Practices -for-Electric -Transmission -
Developers -February -2023 -Americans -for-a-Clean -Energy -Grid.pdf . 


REQUEST FOR INFORMATION ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (AI) ACTION PLAN  – MARCH  15, 2025  
7 Reliab ility and High Integrity  of U.S. Artificial Intelligence  
As the use of AI continues to  rise in the United States, there is a tremendous need for federal leadership 
to promote integrity amongst AI systems and to prevent bias in AI algorithms. As stated in the Executive 
Order on Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence, “we must develop AI 
systems that are free from ideological bias or engineered social agendas. ” Ethical principles must be 
established and followed to ensure integrity and trustworthiness of American AI technologies. In 
addition, reliability and accuracy are critical to the success of American AI. For these reasons, we urge 
the Foundation  to provide federal leadership to protect against negative impacts from AI by insuring 
reliability, integrity and bias prevention.   
Conclusion  
We applaud the Foundation  for initiating a proactive plan on the development of AI and soliciting public 
input on factors to be considered . We look forward to a Plan that calls for smart siting of AI data centers 
and associated energy and transmission infrastructure, as well as  initiatives for innovative  technologies  
and efficiencies  to minimize the strain on the grid and increase electricity and water efficiency. By 
following this plan, AI data center developers will contribute to the Administration’s stated goals 
through its Executive and Secretarial Orders  to provide an affordable and reliable domestic supply of 
energy that is readily accessible in every state . Thank you for your attention to this matter.  
Sincerely,  
Lori Faeth  
Government Relations Director  
Land Trust Alliance  
*This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary
or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.


