PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-hdtd-qwpj
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1600
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: R B
General Comment
"Once m en turned their thinking over to m achines in the hope that this would set them  free. But that only perm itted other m en with
m achines to enslave them ." -- Dune by Frank Herbert. While m achine learning m odels have uses in specific areas, the current corporate
fad around "AI" is an attem pt to cash in without m aking new technology & plagiarize from  the entire creative capacity of our species. The
ways this is pursued now are unsustainable for both the environm ent & econom y, & the current efforts to integrate with the federal
governm ent are an attem pt to latch on as a parasite so once investors discover that this is just another scam , the Am erican taxpayer will be
left holding the bag. And for what? Most of these system s do the sam e tasks alreacy achieved through traditional m eans only worse. AI
on search results provides inaccurate inform ation over 60% of the tim e. Additionally, even now, the "AI" m achine learning technology is
being used by intellectually dishonest actors to steal people's art, to replace their intellectual capacity, and fill the channels of inform ation
with useless sludge. People not realizing that LLM outputs are essentially the com puter playing the Turing Test to give a hum an-like
response take obviously incorrect statem ents as divine revelation. Ultim ately, the question com es down to whom  the tools are m eant to
serve; are they m eant to serve the working people sustaining our country or corporate interests? Where m achine learning program s that
are built to assist anim ators by filling in fram es or predict protein folding serve the artists and biom edical researchers & are often quite
effective, m any others that are intended as som e sort of digital cure-all are m eant to line corporate pocketbooks and strain our country's
powergrid. I suggest that the AI industry that has em erged recently should be gutted and highly regulated, not having access to copyright-
protected intellectual property. I hope those in the federal governm ent are able to see this as the obvious bubble it is and push for the
regulation the tech industry needs. Of course, with the current governm ent, I doubt this, given that Trum p's cabinet is the wealthiest in the
country's history and is looking to fleece everyday people in order to line their billionaire buddies' pockets.


