PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2bhn-3k17
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8172
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Joely Ki ng  
Email: 
General Comment
No one wants AI. Rich people invested too m uch m oney into it and now are desperate to m ake it profitable when everyday people hate
it. I have to constantly type “-ai” into Google with every search because I don’t want it. It’s already such an annoyance. It’s destroying
our planet, stealing from  our artists, and now you want to m ake it legal to steal instead of shutting this nonsense down? 
I write as m y hobby and enjoy posting m y stories online to share with friends and whoever else wants to read them , not so large
corporations can train their word calculators on. Because that's what these program s are. They're not thinking, they're not creative, they
are no sm arter than the graphing calculator I used in high school geom etry. We've seen tim e and tim e again that these things cannot be
trusted, they lie when asked questions because they have no way of understanding what is true or false. I am  positive m y work has already
been stolen; what I poured so m uch of m yself into just for the fun of it, for the love, for the joy, just to m ake others happy. That is what's
been taken from  m e in the nam e of som ething I find unethical and appalling. Som ething that is actively m aking our society worse. 
AI is not the future, it’s an overhyped bubble that’s going to burst. I just hope it bursts before it takes our whole planet down with it.
Focus on things that actually m ake everyday Am ericans lives better instead of m aking it easier for the rich to take advantage of us. 
Training AI is not fair use. It is theft. It should be legally treated as such. 


