PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-014t-dbg9
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6284
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Holly Higgins  
Email: 
General Comment
It is im perative that we do not allow AI engines to take advantage of loopholes in copyright law before it is too late. The AI system s m ade
by tech com panies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy thousands of Am erican sm all businesses with their recent
dem and to create special carve outs in copyright law.
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. My unique work, and the work of hundreds of thousands of
other everyday Am erican creators was taken and fed into these AI system s without our consent or any com pensation. They ingest our
work, reassem ble it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly com peting with us and cutting us out of the m arketplace. This stifles
individual innovation and will also negatively im pact the econom y, as m any of these creators rely on their work being m arketable and will
not spend m oney they haven’t m ade. 
That said, as AI encroaches on m ore and m ore of our daily life, and has som e genuine uses, a proposed plan is as follows:
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech com panies, but rather on ensuring a fair
m arketplace with com petition:
First, the governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, so that we can decide when and where
our work is used by AI system s.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is
preserved. Our work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just
Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their
training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
Thank you for taking the tim e to consider our perspective.


