PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2m ib-05bc
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8430
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
We created and uphold copyright because we want to recognize that the act of creating is special. That the person who invented the
cartoon m ouse out of nothing did som ething m ore valuable than the person who just photocopied it.
Allowing the AI system s m ade by Big Tech com panies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google to exem pt them selves from  copyright law is
disgusting, chilling, and unam erican.
AI system s cannot create, they can only disassem ble and reassem ble. They are “trained” by digesting and disassem bling the creations of
others, actual hum ans, without their consent, approval, or com pensation.
The purpose of fair use is to avoid stifling the rights of the public to com m ent or report on or satirize copyrighted works. It explicits
condem ns use intended to replace or supersede the original as piracy.
We allow fair use when the work is substantially transform ative, but what does that m ean? If I overlay a gif of a dancing baby in the corner
of the screen for the entire extended edition of the Lord of the Rings film s, I haven’t earned the right to send digital copies to all m y
friends. Transform ation requires the sam e thing as copyright - creation. Hum an intent.
If I go and tell an AI “art” bot to create an illustration “in the style of” and nam e a specific artist, it is clearly m aking use of that artist’s
work without actually showing any - very clearly replacing and superseding, with no intent on the part of the program m ers or owners -
SELLERS - of this tool to direct m e in any way to the artist whose work I have just appropriated.
If I don’t nam e a specific artist but instead a style, or a subject, it is doing EXACTLY THE SAME THING, replacing the art which has
been tagged with those sam e keywords with the “new” configuration of pixels it has determ ined to be m ost sim ilar. That is piracy.
If downloading a copy of a video file containing part of Jerry Maguire is akin to “stealing a car,” these com panies have just looted the
Louvre. Do not let them  profit off of this. Hold them  accountable.


