PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1e35-le0c
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7378
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Clara Biesel 
General Comment
My nam e is Clara Biesel and I am  writing as an educator with deep concern about the loosening of any laws around AI technology. 
In the classroom  I teach writing, and have seen the devastating effects of m y students increasing dependence on insecure, unverifiable
drivel they produce using the “tools” that AI is claim ing to give them . Rather than being a key to knowledge, generative AI in the
classroom  has lessened m y students’ skills, dram atically m uddied the waters in term s of where they can find reliable inform ation, and by
m aking a plagiarism  m achine that is not only easily available but baked into their word processors, m assively increased m y own workload.
I am  disgusted by the ways in which the copyrighted inform ation on the internet has been indiscrim inately fed into the large language
m odels for generative AI, and as som eone who has long posted m y own intellectual and creative labor to the internet, I am  intensely
frustrated by the ways in which the content posted to internet at large is being used for profit without credit or consent.
What if the US were to lead the world’s technological advancem ent and prom ote hum an flourishing by com m itm ent to protecting the work
of its citizens? To fight against m isinform ation? To m ake our technology m ore transparent? To show credit where credit is due? Robin
Wall Kim m erer says that “all flourishing is m utual” and I will say that by prom oting generative AI and its isolation of profit into the hands of
the few while extracting value from  the m any is the opposite of hum an flourishing. 
Thank you for your work on this topic, and I hope you will consider the people whose voices would be stolen by a loosening of copyright
law. 
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.


