PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 88-zw0k-6ld0
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1371
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  AI Alliance
General Comment
Please find the AI Alliance's com m ents in the attached docum ent.
Attachments
AI Alliance Com m ent to NSF_OSTP AI Action Plan


AI Alliance Comment in Response to the RFI on the Development of an AI Action Plan  
Submitted by the AI Alliance  
March  14th , 2025  
90 FR 9088; 2025 -02305  
About the AI Alliance: The AI Alliance  is a community of organizations, large and small 
companies, academic and non -profit institutions, representing developers, researchers, and 
business leaders who are focused on accelerating and disseminating open innovation across the 
AI technology landsca pe. They aim to improve foundational capabilities, safety, security, and trust 
in AI, and to responsibly maximize benefits to people and society everywhere. The AI Alliance 
brings together a critical mass of compute, data, tools, and talent to accelerate o pen innovation 
in AI. The Alliance has already played a pivotal role in advancing community driven projects in 
specific technology areas such as AI Evaluation Taxonomy, Domain -specific Risk Assessments, 
the launch of Safety BAT (an interactive benchmark le aderboard on Hugging Face), etc. to support 
Testing and Evaluation of general purpose and specialized AI applications. These initiatives not 
only bolster trust in AI but also reinforce the U.S. commitment to open, innovation -driven 
leadership in the global  AI landscape.  
We value the opportunity to provide input to the National Science Foundation’s (NSF) and Office 
of Science and Technology Policy’s (OSTP) request for information regarding the “Development 
of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan.”1 
The open -source community broadly agrees that traditional software -focused definitions of 
“open -source” licensing need modification to be effectively applied to AI models or systems. 
Since there is a lively ongoing discussion in the technical community about defining “open -
source AI”, we believe it is premature to adopt a formal definition of “open -source AI” here. In 
lieu of a formal definition, we use the words “open” and “openness” below to refer to conditions 
in which foundation model weights are publicly available under a permissive license t hat allows 
for research and commercial use.  
1. An open source AI ecosystem is good for the US economy
There are a number of compelling reasons why the Administration should prioritize the
development of an open AI ecosystem.   First, the economic benefits of AI will accrue most when
open foundation models are made widely available.  Foundation models will increase worker
productivity and grow economies. According to Goldman Sachs  Research, the widespread
adoption of foundation mo dels could increase U.S. productivity by 1.5% on an  annual basis.2
1 The content in this response is provided by the AI Alliance and is not intended to reflect the views of any 
particular member organization.  This document is approved for public dissemination. The document 
contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
2 Goldman Sachs, Research, AI may start to boost US GDP in 2027 , Nov. 7, 2023,    
https://www.goldmansachs.com/intelligence/pages/ai -may-start-to-boost -us-gdp-in-2027.html. 
(“Generative artificial intelligence has the potential to automate many work tasks and eventually boost 
global economic growth … In the baseline  scenario, the Goldma n Sachs Research economists estimate 


Another report, from the International Monetary Fund, The Macroeconomics of 
Artificial  Intelligence  forecasts that “AI might be applied to a substantial share of the tasks  done 
by most workers … and massively boost productivity in those tasks.”3 That is no small 
outcome.   As the IMF notes, productivity is the single largest determinant of “the wealth of nations 
and the living  standards of their people.”4 Overall, according to an estimate by the consulting firm 
McKinsey, foundation models may generate between $2.6 trillion to $4.4 trillion in economic 
growth across the  global economy.5  
Second, openness creates increased competition in the foundation model marketplace by enabling 
downstream developers to build innovative, custom products.6 Growing the number of foundation 
model -based  products reduces overall market concentration and increases options for enterprise 
customers and end  users.7 The availability of open foundation models is also likely applying 
market pressure on closed   developers to lower prices and “compete against free.”8 This has wide 
benefits; in general, as the White   House has noted, “when firms have to compete for customers, 
it leads to lower prices, higher quality   goods and services, greater variety, and more innovation.”9  
Third, open foundation models are often the most affordable, cost -effective option for 
entrepreneurs and small - and medium -businesses. Building a new, enterprise -specific foundation 
model often requires  prohibitively expensive investments in model training. Access to open 
foundation models, which are typically free to procure and more affordable to customize than 
starting from scratch, substantially lowers the barrier to entry. These models also enable a thriving 
ecosystem of foundation model development support and cloud service providers serving open 
foundation models to enterprise customers. This makes it possible for more businesses to build 
foundation models at lower cost, ensuring that corporate reso urces are not the sole determinant of 
whether a company can realize the benefits of a bespoke foundation model. This spreads the 
productivity benefits of foundation models to more sectors of the economy.  
AI could increase US productivity growth by 1.5 percentage points annually assuming widespread 
adoption over a 10 -year period.”)   
3 Erik Brynjolfsson and Gabriel Unger, The Macroeconomics of Artificial Intelligence, International 
Monetary Fund, Dec. 2023, https://www.imf.org/ -
/media/Files/Publications/Fandd/Article/2023/December/20 -25-Brynjolfsson -final.ashx.  
4 Id. 
5 See McKinsey & Company, The Economic Potential of Generative AI: The Next Productivity Frontier , 
Jun. 2023,  https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/mckinsey -digital/our -insights/the -economic -potential -of-
generative -ai-the-next productivity -frontier.   
6 See Will Douglas Heaven, The open -source AI boom is built on Big Tech’s handouts. How long will it 
last?, MIT Technology   Review, May 12, 2023, 
https://www.technologyreview.com/2023/05/12/1072950/open -source -ai-google -openai -eleuther -
meta/   (“if the trend  toward closing down access continues, then not only will the open -source crowd be 
cut adrift —but the next   generation of AI breakthroughs will be entirely back in the hands of the biggest, 
richest AI labs in the world.”).  
7 See https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.07918 (access to model weights promotes innovation in downstream 
markets by “helping to  reduce market concentration at the foundation model level from vertical cascading”).   
8 See Tyler Cowen, Open -Source Software Is Worth a Lot More Than You Pay for It, Bloomberg, Feb. 26, 
2024, https://www.bloomberg.com/opinion/articles/2024 -02-26/open -source -software -is-worth -a-lot-more -
than-you-pay-for-it. 
9 See Heather Boushey and Helen Knudsen, The Importance of Competition for the American Economy, 
U.S White House Blog, Jul.   9, 2021, https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written -materials/2021/07/09/the -
importance -of-competition -for-the-american economy/.


2. The Administration should prioritize government use of open source models
To maintain global leadership in AI, the U.S. government must lead by example in adopting AI to
enhance public sector efficiency, service delivery, and national security.  Recognizing that specific
national security and sensitive use cases might require additional diligence and considerations,
federal agencies should accelerate AI adoption by leveraging machine learning models for tasks
such as document processing, anomaly d etection, and predictive analytics. This can drive
operational efficiencies while set ting a precedent for responsible AI deployment.
Additionally, the Administration should direct agencies not to prefer proprietary models over open 
source, updating AI procurement guidelines to prioritize open models and interoperable AI 
solutions whenever feasible, in order to ensure flexibility, transp arency, and long -term 
sustainability. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB), the General Services 
Administration (GSA), and the National Institute for Standards  and Technology (NIST) should 
work collaboratively to establish a government -wide AI strateg y that standardizes best practices, 
facilitates interagency cooperation, and supports workforce upskilling initiatives to maximize AI’s 
benefits across public administration.  
Expanding AI’s role in government operations will also provide a testing ground for regulatory 
approaches, allowing policymakers to better understand AI risks and opportunities. A structured 
approach to AI deployment across federal agencies, with clear per formance metrics and ethical 
safeguards, will enhance the U.S. government’s ability to harness AI while setting a model for 
industry and international partners. USG should also invest in infrastructure and testbeds that can 
facilitate public -private testin g for national security. For example, if the government continues to 
have concerns about national security -related deployments of AI, it needs to unify AI expertise 
from the private sector with national security expertise from the government. It is critica l that the 
US continue to advance the state of the art around evaluations and threat modelling. To that end, 
it is important for the Government to retain the expertise and resources necessary to collaborate 
with industry on national security -related risks,  as well as for research and development.  
The Administration should also encourage governmental adoption of open source AI to facilitate 
scientific research. According to OSTP nominee Michael Kratsios: “The shape of future global 
order will be defined by whomever leads across AI, quantum, nuclear,  robotics, and other critical 
and emerging technologies. Chinese progress in nuclear fusion, quantum technologies, and 
autonomous systems all press home the urgency of the work ahead.”10 Governmental adoption 
may enable training open source AI on expert, scientific data with limited availability for particular 
research problems (i.e. such as robotics, aircraft telemetry, and material science).  
To accelerate new technological breakthroughs, the U.S. government should actively foster 
collaborative partnerships with academia, industry, and civil society. Joint research initiatives and 
public –private partnerships can serve as catalysts for innovatio n by leveraging the diverse 
expertise and resources of these stakeholders. For example, establishing innovation hubs and 
consortiums that bring together leading research universities, industry pioneers, and non -profit 
organizations can help translate cutti ng-edge research into practical applications across sectors. By 
supporting these partnerships, the government can stimulate the development of advanced AI 
models and solutions that drive both economic growth and innovation.  
10 Trump science policy nominee calls China most formidable technology, science competitor, 
https://www.reuters.com/world/us/trump -science -policy -nominee -calls-china -most -formidable -technology -
science -2025 -02-24. 


There are also other, sector -specific actions the government should consider to  facilitate the 
adoption of critical open source AI technologies. For instance,  government action with ecosystem 
stakeholders to facilitate interoperability and sharing of healthcare data with proper safety, privacy 
and security controls, as well as establishing a framework and process for assessing and approving 
AI use in clinical a pplications, could help radically accelerate the use of AI in the healthcare sector.  
3. The Administration should formalize the National Artificial Intelligence Research
Resource (NAIRR)
Formalizing the NAIRR would accelerate research in fields ranging from healthcare and drug
discovery to environmental science and advanced manufacturing. This access can serve as a
catalyst for breakthroughs in critical areas, ultimately positioning the United States as a global
leader in both the technological and ethical aspects of AI development.
The White House could work with Congress to pass the Bipartisan Creating Resources for Every 
American To Experiment with Artificial Intelligence Act (CREATE AI Act) that would make 
NAIRR a permanent, publicly accessible resource, opening doors to advanced computational 
power and data previously limited to well -funded institutions.  
Central to the AI Alliance’s mission of open innovation of AI, the NAIRR would support the 
expansion of resources to democratize AI research, fostering an ecosystem that enables scientific 
advancements, economic growth, and American AI leadership.  
4. The Administration should support global competitiveness of American companies by
avoiding export controls on open models
Overly restrictive policies on AI -related exports would hinder American companies'
competitiveness while failing to prevent adversarial nations from developing their own AI
capabilities. Policymakers should not adopt export controls on open models to ensur e that AI
innovations remain accessible to global markets.
Strategic engagement with allies on coordinated AI export policies will also help prevent 
regulatory fragmentation and maintain the U.S.’s position as the leader in AI research and 
commercialization.  By promoting open source models, the Administration can set standards for 
interoperability and security that will become the gold standard internationally. This approach 
democratizes access to AI technologies and empowers global partners to build upon U.S.  
innovations, ensuring that the foundation for AI remain s open, accountable, and conducive to rapid 
advancement.11 
AI transcends national boundaries, making it crucial for frameworks to be aligned across 
jurisdictions to promote interoperability. The US Government should leverage a proactive 
diplomatic approach12 to ensure global AI policies align with US best practices, and to ensure US 
influence over key standard -setting bodies. The Government should spearhead efforts to shape 
international AI governance by advocating for risk -based, interoperable frameworks tha t promote 
innovation while safeguarding national security.  
11 Eric Schmidt and Dhaval Adjodah, “Will China’s open -source AI end U.S. supremacy in the field?”  
https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2025/01/28/china -deekseek -ai-us-supremacy/  
12 Ben Brooks & Michelle Fang, “US leadership in AI requires open -source diplomacy”, 
https://thehill.com/opinion/technology/5079721 -china -ai-open -source -threat/  


