PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-qdob-5u9m
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2819
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Mitchell Hendricks  
General Comment
Mitchell Hendricks is filing this com m ent.
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.
Executive order 14110, "Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Developm ent and Use of Artificial Intelligence," is being revoked as part of an
action plan. This is stupid.
That executive order stated, "Am ericans' privacy and civil liberties m ust be protected as AI continues advancing." Why is this
adm inistration putting m y civil liberties on the line for som e m ultinational tech com pany to m ake a quick buck? My civil liberties are
enshrined in the U.S. Constitution and Bill of Rights, and I am  appalled that the current adm inistration is willing to abbreviate those in
ANY form , regardless of reason.
Honestly, that entire executive order pretty m uch says that AI will be held to the sam e standards of consum er protection as other
products. Why should som ething be exem pt from  the regulations designed to protect m e, the consum er, just because it can be reasonably
passed off as "artificial intelligence?" It m akes no sense to m e. Apparently it's okay to put the Am erican people at risk if it's "Artificial
Intelligence!"
Finally, I am  very concerned about how AI influences copyright, which this order conveniently fails to address. Generative AI is trained on
data scraped from  the internet, data people actually put work into to create. AI has no original thoughts; it plagiarizes bits and pieces of
other works in a vain attem pt to put them  together into a som ewhat coherent m ess. It cannot think, it can only im itate, it can only
regurgitate.
This plagiarism  m eans that there is no such thing as private property or private enterprise. This weakens capitalism ; there is no incentive to
create anything if your ideas can be stolen. If I want to put it in term s of partisan buzzwords, a lack of private property is com m unist. Do
you really want to m ake the United States a com m unist country, because AI rem oved the fundam ental of having control over m y own
property?


