PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-n0la-q7uh
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2510
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Fernando Torre
General Comment
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.
I am  a graduate of the University of Missouri specilaizing in AI. The current generation of generative AI flies in the face of everything I
learned there. There is no sham e, no ethics, and no respect for the law.
This is what's m aking am erica not-great: we don't even follow our own laws!
If this adm inistration wants to truly change som ething, they can start with that: ensure any com m ercial m odel has paid for the rights of any
works they train on. Ensure anyone who does not com ply has to, not only com pensate the authors whose rights they've violated but pay
punitive dam ages as well. Ensure any non-com ercial m odels that use works without having the rights, get destroyed and are not later
"converted" into com m ercial m odels.
These blatant and ongoing violations are already being challenged in court worldwide, and courts are leaning towards the fact that AI
"stores" the works "in an electronic retrieval system " --the very prohibition inscribed on the first page of every book in the library of
congress-- because it's already been proven that the original work can be "extracted" from  the AI in a way that is indistinguishable to the
custom er..
And these courts are very m uch the ones who should be m aking this decision. The executive, however, can tell them  how to follow it. If
they want to keep using copyrighted works, we can order them  to find the authors and get a rights deal.
This is no different than the challenge Microsoft faced in the 90s when they introduced ClipArt: dem ocratising advertising and slideshows
required being able to generate illustrations for them  with a few key words. However, Microsoft PAID for those base illustrations, and
repaid every year to keep having the rights. Artists who m ade the illustrations could opt out at any m om ent if they didn't like the deal, or
what people were doing with their work, and Microsoft would rem ove their works from  the ClipArt Gallery.
We have the technology in Am erica to solve this problem . We have the know-how. We have the legal and logistical infrastructure. That's
what m akes us the greatest country in the world!
Make Am erica Great Again, Make Am erica Lawful Again!


