PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-wwkx-sp0q
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1751
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Zach Ahearn 
General Comment
I am  writing to you to speak on behalf of working artists and creatives, those of us who are writers or painters, m odelers, designers. The
threat of AI is an ever loom ing attem pt to wipe us from  existence. This technology only exists because those with enough m oney and
resources decided to take everyone's work and place it into an uncaring blender of pixels and text to churn out attem pted replacem ents.
This would not exist without our exploitation. I am  a working artist and I see the outcom e of this technology on concept artists who design
som e of our largest cultural im pacting creations, how it puts them  out of work or m akes one artist try to m ake up for a lack of a team  with
plagiarized garbage. The hate for AI is ever present from  everyone in m y daily life, they see it as a forced intrusion on their lives, and see
its owners as grifters and thieves. The only ones who say otherwise are in on the grift them selves. This technology is a pit that people
throw m oney and others livings into just to try and replace what little we have and force the last bit of hum anity that dares to dream  into a
soul crushing m achine m eant to take away our ability to m ake a living with our own creations. 
They m ust never be allowed to be copyrighted or use copyrighted works to create any inform ation to be profited off of. The entire ordeal
has been based off of deceit and exploitation. I know writing this that whoever you are if you are actually reading these and not just
filtering them  through one of these m oney wasting m achines, that you have already likely decided to end us. I know, so m any have m ade it
clear that they wish for the act of creation to die. I have seen it, the dollar signs in your eyes as you contem plate killing us slowly by
starving us off so you can hold a m onopoly on culture. But it won't work, so m uch m oney has been spent on these data farm s and they're
pulling back on investing in them  entirely basing their m odel on venture capital and have never m ade a profit. This will sim ply lead to a
downturn where everything turns to worthless m ush and eventually from  the ashes people will have to relearn how to actually m ake
anything from  their own effort again long after we are gone. It will take tim e to end us, and even longer for hum anity to m ove on from  this
wasted era when we are gone. To approve open-ai or any other ai based generative ai start up shell of inform ation laundering of anything
is to just further sustaining the parasite that you have continued to nurture. I say all of this knowing that I do not trust any one reading any
of this to do anything right. I assum e and I know you will do us wrong.This is not even a plea at this point. I know, we all know you will
disappoint us all, you will falter and you will fail us. This will lead to a downturn in the quality of all entertainm ent, and m edia and
inform ation, the error rate of these LLM's and the hom ogenized filtering of im ages, video and sound will be ground up into a congealed
m ass of filth m eant to end the soul of m yself and all of m y peers and eventually you. I have no faith in you, and you will have your chance
to prove m e wrong. Push back against this overvalued farce that disem powers everyone except for those who hold control over its
system s. We do not need it, we do not want it, it is a dead end. It is a waste to support AI in this m anner but I know you will m ost likely
send us all into the slow cultural death spiral you crave for with all of your m ight. 


