PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-se4g-xyzr
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3088
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Anonymous Anonymous 
General Comment
Artificial intelligence should not be allowed to proceed further without heavy regulation from  the governm ent. The ram ifications of the
technology have already proven to be dangerous in various sectors and fields, including but not lim ited to: 
-Harm ing artists/creatives, worsening their already pitiful source of incom e by allowing both m alicious and ignorant parties to easily steal
work that was unknowingly and, without perm ission, used to train AI.
-Uses the work and ideas of others with no credit nor com pensation nor perm ission.
-Allowing anyone to create spam  on social m edia and YouTube with m inim al effort in the form  of bots with m ore convincing
conversational skills, and content farm s m ade for either profit or harm ing audiences with m isinform ation.
-Allowing students, em ployees, and em ployers to cheat and half-ass their work by typing in a text and/or im age prom pt, harm ing both the
individual and end user.
-Harm ing the electrical grid by draining excessive am ounts of power that m ay cause frequent brownouts, dam aging sensitive equipm ent.
-Causing further dam age to the environm ent by using excessive power and water for cooling data centers.
AI m ay be negatively used in other sectors that haven't been affected drastically yet, such as finance, transportation, etc. I do not see a
future where AI can be used in positive and unharm ful ways for the Am erican people. The technology is running ram pant without penalty,
dam aging m ultiple sectors and everyone who com es across it. It is producing m eaningless overhyped content.
At the very least I highly recom m end that AI be HEAVILY regulated, only allowing the technology to use content that has explicit
perm ission from  every and all authors/owners of said content to be used in the technology's datasets, with the default perm issions set to
decline.


