PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-z6ed-92ra
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5905
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Tatem Hughes  
Email: 
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan - Public Com m ent


March 14, 2025 
From: 
Tatem Hughes 
Jeweler 
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
I am an everyday American who works full-time sustaining myself with my work as a jeweler. I 
have hobbies in enjoying the arts made by real life people, and want to keep it that way. Where 
art is m ade by people for people; not some drivel made by machines built off of theft designed 
entirely just so businesses don’t have to pay people money that they need to make a living and 
survive. 
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google 
threaten to destroy thousands of American small businesses with their recent demand to 
create special carve outs in copyright law. 
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work made by people. The work of 
hundreds of t housands of everyday American creators was taken and fed into these AI systems 
without their consent or any compensation. They ingest their work, reassemble it, and then sell 
it back t o their clients – directly competing with them and cutting them out of the marketplace. 
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. 
They are suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow 
suddenly “fair use”.  
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to 
rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation. 
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to 
protect the incentive to create and innovate.  
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen 
by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new 
innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it 
immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How could 
they possibly make a livin g doing these things? 


Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and 
everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency. 
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition: 
●First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent, so that we can decide when and where their work is used by AI systems.
●Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that
the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Their work has immense
economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original
creators, not just Big Tech.
●Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what
content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard 
work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright 
law. 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues. 


