PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zjlp-nbz8
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5912
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Jacob Stanton  
General Comment
Nobody likes AI. It's only purpose is to steal work from  hum an beings and replace them  with m achines that don't need to be paid. It only
serves corporations and algorithm s. It is worse than sludge. I would rather every single job be taken by "illegal im m igrants" than a soulless
m achine. This does not serve anyone; AI is unable to consistently produce good results, every AI article is bloated with m isinform ation,
every AI video or im age riddled with graphical errors, inconsistencies, all in the sam e horrendous, Mal-m anufactured style. 
And you, the person (or m aybe even already the algorithm ) reading this response, pushing this aside because it "doesn't affect you", it only
doesn't affect you now. You are not im m une if you are currently on a payroll. You will be replaced; and it will be your fault for not fighting
back. Your fault for being okay with perpetuating things constantly getting worse for others because "things aren't bad for m e". If AI is
allowed to infiltrate every facet of society, we will get doctors, lawyers, judges and leaders who's only training is an algorithm  that can
som etim es be correct about sim ple things, but also tells people that 2 cigarettes a day is healthy for the pregnant m others of the world.
Once the world is polluted in this way, we can't step back from  it. We can't say "oops, that was a fum ble" and roll it back. Google is
already close to unusable. Most websites are replacing actual people with their guessing gam e algorithm  that's "usually" correct about what
it's saying. If you have the power to stop this from  harm ing billions, don't you want to go down in history as the person who stopped this
oppression before it consum ed us all? Because I'd really appreciate that.


