PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 88-wwix-j7m 6
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1352
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Center for Telehealth and e-Health Law
General Comment
Please see the attached letter from  the Center for Telehealth and e-Health Law.
Attachments
CTeL Response to AI Action Plan RFI


1 
Submitted by the Center for Telehealth and e -Health Law  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government 
in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
RE: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is poised to transform healthcare —improving patient outcomes, 
reducing administrative burdens, and enhancing clinician workflows. However, without 
cohesive federal leadership, the U.S. risks a fragmented regulatory landscape th at could 
stifle innovation and limit AI’s full potential. The Administration must prioritize a robust AI 
Action Plan that fosters responsible innovation while protecting patient rights.  
The Center for Telehealth and e -Health Law (CTeL) is a 501(c)(3) non -profit research 
institute dedicated to advancing the legal and regulatory understanding of digital health. In 
2024, we established the AI Blue Ribbon Collaborative, a distinguished panel of experts 
evaluating clinical and legal questions surrounding AI. Below are key priorities for health AI 
that align with the Bipartisan House Task Force Report on Artificial Intelligence 
(December 2024),  underscoring the growing consensus on effective AI policy.  
1.Recognize AI’s Diverse Use Cases to Ensure Effective Regulation : ‘Health AI’ is
not a single uniform technology, but rather an umbrella term that covers a range of
uses from clinical to administrative.
2.Prepare Healthcare Professionals for AI Integration:  Healthcare workers should
be equipped with the  ability to adapt to emerging health technologies and how they
interact with existing professional, ethical, and clinical guidelines.
3.Support the Deployment and Integration of Health AI Technologies : The federal
government should give health organizations the tools and guidance needed to
effectively use health AI tools.  Establish a National AI Technical Assistance Program
to guide healthcare providers in AI adoption.
4.Ensure that Patients are not Excessively Denied Care : AI should not be used to
excessively  deny Medicare or Medicare Advantage claims or prior authorization
requests.  AI must not become a barrier to care. The use of AI in claims processing
and prior authorization should prioritize patient access and fairness, preventing


2 
unjust denials of necessary treatments.  Mandate transparency in AI -driven claim 
denials, requiring insurers to disclose when AI was used.  
5.Promote Patient Choice and Public Awareness of Health AI: Patients should be
equipped with a basic understanding of AI in healthcare  to provide informed
consent to its use or  have the choice to opt -out.
Recognize AI’s Diverse Use Cases to Ensure Effective Regulation  
Currently, AI is predominantly being used in administrative tasks, allowing clinicians to 
spend more time focusing on patient care. AI -powered scribes help take visit notes, which 
patients appreciate seeing their doctor more focused on them than on note -taking. 
Doctors can use AI to quickly draft standard follow -up notes to patients  and analyze patient 
health data. These applications are important given the prevalence of administrative 
burden and clinician burnout currently faced by healthcare workers , factors which threaten 
the quality of patient care.  Clinical applications of AI are also seeing growth  in development 
and usage. Tools and algorithms are being used to predict heart disease , the progression  
and management  of chronic conditions, the probability of care needing to be escalated  
within a hospital , and many other important factors . Given the wide variety of use cases for 
AI in the healthcare setting, the Administration should:  
1.Different iate between health AI use cases, such as administrative, clinical,
billing, and others , and take into consideration differing risk profiles for patient
safety and data security .
2.Identify top challenges currently facing the American healthcare system, such
as workforce shortages, administrative burden, rising costs, and data security,
and develop strategies for how AI and other future technologies can address
them.


3 
 
 A recent survey from the American Medical Association (AMA) found that physicians  are 
growing in their excitement over health AI, with addressing administrative burden being the 
biggest opportunity for the technology.  
 
3. Anticipate the potential for Artificial General Intelligence  (AGI) and its impact 
on healthcare . 
All current uses of AI are considered “narrow,” in that they are designed for and applied to a 
specific use case. Technologists predict the eventual invention of AGI, which would be an 
AI system that can adapt to new situations.  Such technology would necessitate the 
development of standards and measures to evaluate model performance  and proper 
oversight measures.  
 
Prepare Healthcare Professionals for AI Integration  
The pace of technological development demands that  health workers quickly adapt to new 
ways of caring for patients . From electronic health records to telehealth to robotics and 
now AI, health technologies have empowered clinicians to provide higher -quality, more 
accessible care.  It is important that clinicians balance the need to take advantage of new 
technologies like AI to improve patient care, while also being able to critically assess 
inputs. It is also important that any use of AI avoid exacerbating already-existing problems 
straining the healthcare workforce , such as staffing shortages, administrative burden, 
clinician burnout , and independent decision -making ability.  
1. Patients deserve competent clinicians who can provide the best level of care. 
Collaborate with clinician training programs  and professional societies to 
develop professional standards for AI competency  that can be incorporated 
into clinical training programs as well as continuing education materials.  
For example, a  2023 study highlighted six key standards for assessing clinician competency 
with AI:  
a. Basic knowledge of AI , which involves understanding AI and its healthcare 
applications  


4 
b.Social and ethical implications of AI ,
c.AI-enhanced clinical encounters, which emphasizes integrating diverse
sources of information to create patient -centered care plans using AI tools ,
d.Workflow analysis for AI -based tools, which involves analyzing and adapting
to changes in teams, roles, and responsibilities due to AI tool
implementation; and
e.Practice-based learning and improvement regarding AI -based tools, which
encourages ongoing professional development related to the use of AI tools
in healthcare
It is also important to emphasize that this field is rapidly evolving – what is ‘standard’ now 
may not be standard a few years in the future. Any standards development should be 
adaptive to changes in the healthcare system and should not be weaponized against 
clinicians and/or subvert clinical judgement.  
2.Encourage healthcare organizations to involve their workforce throughout the AI
lifecycle .
Successful deployment of new technologies like AI can revolutionize the way hospitals and 
other healthcare settings operate, necessitating buy-in from all those involved in using 
them.  
3.Protect clinicians and patients by supporting the development of liability
standards surrounding AI use .
Numerous healthcare organizations emphasize the importance of AI as a tool to augment  
clinician performance while preserving the centrality of clinician judgement in medical 
decision-making. In instances where mistakes are made, guidance on liability  would 
ensure that there is a clear level of accountability for clinicians and safety measures for 
patients.  
Support the Deployment and Integration of Health AI Technologies  


5 
The federal government already plays an important role in  supporting the use of health 
technology through HHS’ Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy office.  This office serves 
as a leader in promoting health record interoperability , allowing for the seamless transfer of 
patient information for more integrated care. It also provides tools and support for 
healthcare organizations in adopting innovative health technologies  through targeted 
technical assistance measures, paving the way for new care innovati ons.  
AI presents unique challenges in its adoption due to the complexities of the technology. 
Cost is currently one of the biggest challenges  – we hope the Administration’s efforts to 
reduce the cost of AI will allow smaller, more rural hospitals to take advantage of this 
technology. Other factors, such as performance evaluation and workflow integration, 
require technical skills that many health organizations lack. We encourage the 
Administration to be a leader in this area – widespread adoption of AI creates ne w 
opportunities for innovation that could improve patient care. Specifically, there are a few 
areas that federal guidance would be beneficial:  
1.Resources to assist healthcare organizations in the selection, procurement,
deployment, management, and evaluation of health AI tools
Many health organizations have developed systems for AI monitoring and evaluation that 
should be considered to serve as potential models for others still developing their 
infrastructure. ASTP for example has dozens of resources  to assist providers in selecting 
and implementing electronic health record (EHR) systems, including training and quality 
improvement materials. Federal support would go a long way in helping practices 
confidently adopt and utilize health AI systems.  
2.Guidance to providers on appropriate coding and billing for AI -assisted
services.  Proper payment of these services ensures that providers can invest in
these technologies.


6 
Current Procedural Terminology (CPT®) is a set of codes used to identify and bill for medical 
services. New codes are regularly added and modified to account for the introduction of 
new procedures, including for AI -enabled procedures. Regardless of the introduction of 
new codes to describe procedures, Medicare, state Medicaid programs, and private 
insurers must still determine if and under what circumstances they will pay for them.  CMS 
should issue guidance on what AI -enabled procedures are eligible for Med icare 
reimbursement to assist providers in making technology investment determinations . 
Furthermore, t o protect patient access, we urge CMS to:  
•Issue clear guidance on AI’s role in utilization review, ensuring that human reviewers
maintain independent decision -making authority.
•Mandate transparency requirements for insurers using AI in the prior authorization
process, including disclosure of AI -driven denials.
Ensure that Patients  are not Excessively  Denied Care  
Insurance plans are increasingly using AI algorithms to evaluate requests for prior 
authorization – an insurer’s determination of a procedure/medication’s ‘medical necessity.’  
In October 2024, the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations released a report 
detailing how M edicare Advantage  plans were using AI technologies “to fix lengths of stay 
for patients at  various inpatient facilities, and in some cases to determine  whether those 
patients should be admitted at all.”  
1.CMS should issue guidance on the appropriate use of AI in the utilization review
process, ensuring that human reviewers are not unduly influenced by
algorithms.
2.CMS should require Medicare Advantage plans to disclose their use of AI in the
prior authorization process , including whether AI was used to issue a denial .
Indiana, for example, is considering a bill requiring the disclosure of the use of AI in any 
medical or insurance decision -making.  


7 
Promote Patient Choice and Public Awareness of Health AI  
Informed consent is a fundamental  component of  the practice of  medicine – patients have 
a right to understand the risks, benefits, and alternatives of a procedure and to provide, 
withdraw, or refuse consent to a procedure at any time. This is especially important when it 
comes to AI  given the complex nature of many of these algorithms.  We strongly encourage 
the Administration to make patient rights and autonomy a central part of the AI Action Plan  
and recommend the following policies:  
1.Collaborate with the Centers for Disease Control,  Food and Drug
Administration,  Indian Health Service, Veterans Affairs Administration, and
other federal, state, and local  public health agencies to develop a campaign
educating the public on the basics of AI in health
2.Develop materials  and guidance  for clinicians to explain to patients if, when,
and how AI is being used for their care
Conclusion  
CTeL urges the Administration to act decisively in crafting an AI Action Plan that fosters 
responsible innovation while protecting patients. We stand ready to collaborate and 
provide expert guidance. For further discussion, please contact us at 
 | www.ctel.org  


