PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-h3x3-6j8p
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2097
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
AI needs to be subject to copyright law for the security of jobs for the Am erican people. Creative jobs are being threatened continuously
by AI that illegally scrapes copyrighted content in order to replace hum an workers with m achine plagiarism , and as a freelance artist, I run
the risk of losing m y livelihood to AI and being unable to feed m yself. Why should I have had to work for decades to perfect m y artwork
just for an AI to be able to take all of that effort, put it into a learning algorithm , and effortlessly replicate it? AI is stealing intellectual
property and hard work from  the Am erican people, and stripping us of jobs. If m ore creatives becom e unem ployed, this will further stress
resources required for things like Medicaid, SNAP, and other low-incom e supports. We will be forced into an ever-shrinking job m arket
as m ore and m ore people find them selves struggling to get em ploym ent with a lim ited num ber of jobs across m any sectors, vs the num ber
of interested applicants. In short, allowing AI to endlessly steal from  Am ericans will not return any "dom inance" but will help to cripple the
econom y. I thought this adm inistration was all about efficiency? Perhaps those who are trying to train AI, who have significant am ounts of
m oney to do so, ought to be paying to license the m aterial they use for their training data. This would also im prove the AI by guaranteeing
that the data they access is accurate and useful in the pursuit of AI dom inance. We've seen already how Google's AI usage has resulted in
search pages sharing inaccurate, nonsensical inform ation in their AI overviews quite often. Casting as broad a net as possible clearly does
not work for training AI that functions correctly. Instead of trying to break down barriers by destroying copyright law, the people
interested in developing AI should perhaps be m ore purposeful in their efforts to secure proper, accurate data and the appropriate
perm issions to use it. It's for the good of the Am erican public and the AI com panies them selves that the data collection be held to higher
standards, and that copyright law be respected.


