PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-vd2z-qz5h
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3551
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Jam es Newsome  
 
General Comment
To allow AI to use copyrighted m aterials, or any m aterials that are used without perm ission from  its living creator in its training would
am ount to a showing that the law in this nation only applies to those without the m oney to get around it. 
And the end result of this, should it be allowed, is a product which is full of prom ises and little else. The salesm en attem pting to wow the
world with it will claim  it can do everything and m ore, if only they're able to steal m ore data to use in their m odels, if only they're given
another billion dollars, if only they're given another few years, but they have yet to provide a single genuine use case. Fam ously Google's
AI shows this with how it will tell you that two kilogram s is less than two pounds, despite going on to m ention that one kilogram  is the
equivalent of 2.2 pounds, or how Africa has no nations starting with a "K", and how "Kenya" m erely appears to start with one (which they
seem  to have m anually rem oved out of em barrassm ent).
They fail tim e and tim e again to find a problem  for their "solution", all the while tricking the less technically knowledgeable with their use of
"AI", trying to m ake us honestly believe there's anything intelligent about it.
The consequences of allowing this technology in its current em barrassing state to steal the work of the working class so the owners of this
tech can fire them  would be disastrous for not only those fired, but for the future workers hired as well. Microsoft itself has already com e
out with a study showing that the use of these applications only serves to harm  the developm ent of skills needed in a healthy workforce.
We would effectively be chopping down all the trees in a forest for lum ber without considering that we m ay need m ore later, instead
focusing on m aking the profits soar right this m om ent, with no regard for what happens after. If the workforce isn't allowed tim e to
develop skills (through understanding what they work on) and are instead forced to use AI for a shortcut in everything, then not only will
the rather lackluster AI be the only thing capable m aking anything, but when it inevitably breaks, there will be no one around who knows
why or how to fix it.


