PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0sfn-0b2o
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6860
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Eli Wennstrom
General Comment
AI is already doing irreparable harm  to m any industries as it scrapes from  content that it has no perm ission to use. Not only is this
som ething that would be punished if done by an individual, but there is also regularly little to no inform ation checked on products that are
m ade with generative AI. AI does not know if it is telling the truth or not. This leads to things such as m ushroom  foraging books giving
m isinform ation that can lead to serious health problem s or even death in people who attem pt to use them . 
Search engines are also flooded with m isinform ation, even to the point that searching up sim ple im ages is difficult. Looking for what a baby
peacock looks like? Good luck sifting through pages of generative AI im ages for a real photograph. 
Why should this unregulated tool be allowed to continue to scrape inform ation and im ages with no restrictions? The end product is low-
effort, low-quality, and often m isleading. Even if the backers of this action plan disrespect the creative fields to the point that they do not
care about the very real people who are losing their work and livelihood every day, they should at the very least care about the intellectual
properties being infringed on every tim e a generative AI m odel is allowed to run free. Scrapers do not discrim inate between hobbyist
artists and m assive corporations like Disney and Warner Brothers - it will steal from  everyone if given the chance. If the generative AI
m odels cannot survive without effectively stealing, they should be allowed to die.


