PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-uzey-dlig
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3471
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Evan Mal lery 
General Comment
[Page 1] This com m ent is authored by Evan Nicholas Mallery. This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent
contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation. Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI
Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.
Unregulated theft of intellectual property is a death sentence for the Am erican econom y and a blatant violation of an individual's
fundam ental right to property. Intellectual property created by an individual or a corporation is the backbone of a com petitive and fair
m arket, and I firm ly believe that allowing AI m odels to be developed on proprietary copyrighted m aterial will irreversibly destroy
Am erican culture and freedom s. The "unnecessarily burdensom e requirem ents" that this executive order are MY rights - MY freedom s,
that I hold dear to m e as a m usician and artist. I do not consent for m y intellectual property to be stolen to train an AI m odel to replace
m e. If the AI sector cannot innovate without the theft of intellectual property, then it should not exist. Allowing AI com panies to break the
law and use intellectual property that was not explicitly created for them , or otherwise legally or contractually given the rights to, will
destroy the fundam ental pillar of capitalism  that is the right to a fair and com petitive m arket. It is unfair for an AI com pany to be able to
use copyrighted m aterial to develop its m odels while sim ultaneously also punishing individuals for pirating or otherwise illegally consum ing
copyrighted m aterial. AI steals from  m y livelihood as an Am erican, and profits off of theft and plagiarism . AI com panies should be
required to pay for the intellectual property that they use, the sam e way that individuals and other corporations are required to pay for or
otherwise negotiate contracts to access intellectual property. Existing AI projects have successfully negotiated licensing deals for access to
copyrighted m aterials, such as Adobe's suite of stock photo im agery. Allowing AI com panies unregulated access to copyrighted m aterial
would also represent the largest drain of Am erican intellectualism  into a single resource in Am erican history - all without any com pensation
to the actual hardworking Am ericans that worked to generate the intellectual property in the first place.


