PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-l131-g45y
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2372
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Katel yn McKneely  
General Comment
Please DO NOT allow generative AI com panies to train their data on copyrighted work. At their CEOs' own adm ission (see CEO of
OpenAI in particular), these generative AI system s cannot function without STOLEN work, taken WITHOUT PERMISSION and
WITHOUT COMPENSATION. This is in blatant violation of num erous copyright laws and we CANNOT give them  a pass. Generative
AI is also proven to be a m assive burden on energy grids and has disastrous effects on our already worsening clim ate problem s.
We are already in a recession with inflation at an unbearable high - axing copyright protections for creatives will m ake these m uch, m uch
worse. If the m oral im perative of NOT allowing generative AI com panies to train off of STOLEN AND COPYRIGHTED m aterial is
som ehow not com pelling enough, and if the catastrophic effects generative AI has on global clim ate struggles is som ehow not com pelling
enough, then at least the disastrous econom ic consequences that would follow should be sufficient enough to m aintain copyright laws and
NOT give generative AI com panies a pass despite established laws that dictate otherwise. 
In sum m ary, DO NOT allow generative AI com panies to train their data from  copyrighted, stolen m aterial. I m yself am  an independent
artist and have had m y entire livelihood put at risk by the ram pant theft of these generative AI com panies. Please enforce copyright laws
and protect the creative industry, as it is both m orally and econom ically what MUST be done, otherwise things will get even worse than
they already are for EVERYONE.


