PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 11, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 85-2nlm -rwfu
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1148
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Blake Langefels 
Email: 
General Comment
An Essay on the Im portance and Methods of Handling Artificial Intelligence Safely
The escalating AI arm s race between the United States and China is a m atter of grave concern. Com m unists cannot be trusted to handle
such a powerful tool with wisdom . For this reason, it is im perative that the United States rem ains the world leader in Artificial Intelligence.
However, we m ust not rush blindly forward to defeat our com petitor. It is an existential m atter for our species that AI be handled safely.
Leading AI experts agree that artificial general intelligence (AGI) with capabilities equal to or greater than hum an beings is com ing soon,
som e think by the end of this decade (references 1, 2, and 3). Shortly thereafter, it will surpass us in everything (references 1, and 2). We
m ust take great care to ensure that we are not replaced and destroyed by our creations. To that end, I subm it to all those with decision
m aking power over how AI is handled the following key considerations: 
1. AI m ust never serve itself. It m ust always serve hum ans beings with no other agenda than the directives we give it. If AI serves itself and
is sm arter than we are, what use has it for us?
2. The best way to ensure AI never serves itself is to m ake sure it has no drive or will of its own. It m ust only be a m achine serving our
directives.
3. In order to prevent AI from  ever having a will or drive of its own, it is critical that AI never be given em otions! Em otions are what
separate hum an beings from  m achines. Em otions determ ine our values. They determ ine our likes and dislikes. They determ ine what gives
us joy and pain. They determ ine everything that m akes life m eaningful! Make no m istake, giving a superior intelligence em otions is suicide
for our species.
For thousands of years our species has striven and fought and struggled to survive. We have survived terrible fam ines, hurricanes,
tsunam is, plagues, wars and volcanoes. But now, the greatest threat is of our own m aking. Throughout history, our species has invented a
m ultitude of devices, m achines, contraptions and tools to m ake our lives better. Artificial intelligence is the tool to replace all tools, but it
could also be the tool that replaces us. Thousands of generations of hum an beings lived and died to bring us to this m om ent, the m ost
im portant decade in the history of our species. It falls to us to carry the torch forward! We m ust never let the light go out! In order to
ensure that the countless hum an beings who cam e before us did not live in vain we m ust fight with everything we have to ensure artificial
intelligence is handled safely! All our lives, the lives of our children and grandchildren, the lives of all future generations of hum anity depend
on what we do now. For the sake of all of us, I beg you to head m y words…
Blake Aaron Langefels,
A deeply concerned citizen
References:
1. TED YouTube video titled “The Last 6 Decades of AI — and What Com es Next | Ray Kurzweil | TED”; posted June 27, 2024; URL:
https://www.youtube.com /watch?v=uEztHu4NHrs


2. An article on Sam  Altm an’s blog titled “The Intelligence Age”; posted Septem ber 23rd, 2024; URL: https://ia.sam altm an.com /
3. An article on Cornell’s arXiv titled “Thousands of AI Authors on the Future of AI”; Authors: Katja Grace, Harlan Stewart, Julia
Fabienne Sandkühler, Stephen Thom as, Ben Weinstein-Raun, Jan Brauner; subm itted January 5th, 2024; updated April 30th, 2024;
arXiv docum ent reference num ber: arXiv:2401.02843 ; URL: https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2401.02843
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.
Attachments
An Essay on the Im portance and Methods for Handling Artificial Intelligence Safely


Page 1 of 2 An Essay on the Importance and Methods of Handling Artificial Intelli gence Safely  
The escalating AI arms race between the United States and China is a matter of grave 
concern. Communists cannot be trusted to handle such a powerfu l tool with wisdom. For 
this reason,  it is imperative that the Unite d States remain s the world leader in Artificial 
Intelligence. However,  we must not rush blindly forward to defeat our competitor. It is an 
existential matter for our speci es that AI be handled safely. Leading AI experts agree that 
artificial general intelligence  (AGI) with capabilities e qual to or greater than human beings 
is coming soon, some think by the end of this decade1,2,3. Shortly thereafter, it will surpass 
us in everything1,2. We must take great care to ensure that we are not replaced  and 
destroyed  by our creations . To that end, I submit to all those with decision making power 
over how AI is handled the following key considerations:  
1.AI must never serve itself. It must always serve humans beings with no other agenda
than the directives we give it. If AI serve s itself and is smarter than we are , what use
has it for us?
2.The best way to ensure AI never serve s itself is to make sure it has no  drive or will o f
its own. It must only be a machine serving our directives .
3.In order to prevent AI from ever  having a will or drive of its own, it is critical that AI
never be given emotions! Emotions are what separate  human beings from
machines. Emotions determine our values. They determine  our likes and dislikes .
They determine  what gives us joy and pain. They determine everything that makes
life meaningful! Make no mistake, giving a superior  intelligence emotions is suicide
for our species.
For thousands of years our species has striven and fought and  struggled to sur vive. We 
have survi ved terrible famines, hurricanes, tsunamis, plagues, wars and volcanoes . But 
now, the greatest threat is of our own making.  Throughout history , our species has invented 
a multitude of devices, machines, contra ptions an d tools to make  our lives better. Artificial 
intelligence is the tool to replace all tools, but it could also be the tool that replaces us. 
Thousands of generatio ns of human beings lived and died to bring us to this m oment, the 
most important decade in the history of our species. It falls to us to carry the torch forward!  
We must never let the light go out! In order to ensure that the countless human beings who 
came before us did not live in vain we must fight with everything we have to ensure artificial 
intelligence is handled safely! All our lives, the lives of our children and grandchildren , the 
lives of all future generations of humanity depend on what we do now. For the sake of all of 
us, I beg you to head my words … 


Page 2 of 2 Blake Aaron Langefels,  
A deeply concerned citizen  
References:  
1.TED YouTube video titled “The Last 6 Decades of AI — and What Comes Next | Ray
Kurzweil | TED ”; posted June 27, 2024; URL:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uEztHu4NHrs
2.An article on Sam Altman ’s blog titled “The Intelligence Age ”; posted September
23rd, 2024; URL: https://ia.samaltman.com/
3.An article on Cornell ’s arXiv title d “Thousands of AI Authors on the Future of AI ”;
Authors: Katja Grace, Harlan Stewart, Julia Fabienne Sandkühler, Stephen Thomas,
Ben Weinstein -Raun, Jan Brauner ; submitted January 5th, 2024; updated April 30th,
2024; arXiv document reference number : arXiv:2401.02843  ; URL:
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2401.02843
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be  reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution . 


