PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-am oz-iast
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1840
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
As a creative and as a hum an being concerned with the state of both our country and planet, please do not take any steps towards
rem oving guard rails on AI. Frankly, I think we should be lim iting it instead of pushing it forward.
AI in a general sense has m any excellent uses that can forward hum anity--developing AI to assist in m edical research and identifying
patterns that are unrecognizable to hum ans but allow us to catch cancer as early as possible, for instance, is a fantastic thing to be working
on. However, m y concern is that m uch of the recent push has been for generative AI.
Generative AI is a power hungry, water hungry m achine that eats works created by others and spits out generic versions. The
environm ental im pact of training these m odels is enorm ous, and we can't afford it in addition to all the other ways we refuse to care for the
planet. We are building servers in places that cannot afford to lose the water it requires.
Not to m ention that it is already being used by people to try to replace creatives. In spite of it creating largely very boring, very sam e-y
writing, and in spite of the art it m akes being gum m y and built entirely out of the visuals of other talented artists, it is being seen as a good
tool. It is not a good tool. People can tell when a hum an was not involved. The reception has been extrem ely poor.
And that's to say nothing of the copyright issues. It is not acceptable to use people's copyrighted work to train these m odels. They are a
black box, and pretending that you know, definitely, that they aren't just outright stealing work is absurd. 
Finally, this sam e technology is being used to create entirely fake im ages that are being used to m islead and lie to people. It is being used
to create fake sexual im ages to get "revenge" on people. The idea that anyone would want to further developm ent of a technology that can
be, is being, and will continue to be used in such hideous ways is beyond m e. 
Please ensure that any AI research and developm ent is focused where it m atters, on technologies that are both som ething AI actually
excels at and that actually im prove the hum an condition, and don't spend the environm ent on trying to generate "hum an-sounding" writing
or "hum an-caliber" art when there are hum ans right there that can accom plish those things better than AI ever could.


