PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-v1ed-2s1d
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1738
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Nicholas Kol e
 Email: 
General Comment
If The United States decides to allow, and privilege the use of unlicensed work as training data for these big AI tech firm s it risks losing the
very thing that m akes our culture unique and profitable... If working artists are unable to contribute m eaningfully and m ake a living there
will no longer be incentive for one of our biggest exports (entertainm ent in all form s m usic, m ovies, gam es...books... ect). Generative AI is
largely proving to be unprofitable and far too expensive to m aintain- there is a wild, m anic rush to blow ahead at enorm ous cost and a
dim inishing benefit. In the end everyone loses out if they are able to skirt the law and destroy other industries and livelihoods in the
process. These big business are racing each other to the bottom , for a technology that is largely useless to m ost people, they put on flashy
displays but in the last three years generative ai hasn't really revolutionized any business. If anything it has m uddied things up for m any
people often m aking things m ore com plicated than it needs to be by adding an autom ated elem ent that doesn't work well and frustrates
m ore than helps. 
If Am erica wants to keep its com petitive edge it needs to uphold copyright so that working people can m aintain their livelihoods and
continue to contribute to society. Our culture of art and entertainm ent is dom inant because of our values of freedom  and individual
em powerm ent. Don't allow these com panies to pull the wool over our eyes, while they line their pockets and prom ise im possibilities. We
deserve the rights to our work, we deserve a robust and evenhanded justice according to the rule of copyright law, we deserve to
succeed as workers, creators, artists and entertainers in a nation that has always represented freedom  and self reliance. Do not allow
corporate greed to guide the hand of law, and steal the hard work of individuals to feed a collectivist m achine future powered by an
averaged-out slush derived from  the theft of hard work of the best and brightest Am erica has to offer.


