PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-lpt8-b4e7
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2413
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Briana Ojeda  
General Comment
Generative AI is incredibly harm ful to the future of m any of our industries, not only in the creative field but in advertising, PR, HR, and
m any m any others. The creative industry and others associated with it is just the first on the chopping block with the widespread use of
generative AI. Innovation depends on and is utterly com pletely founded on the influx of new, fresh ideas to build upon even m ore new,
fresh ideas. Generative AI guillotines the continuous addition of actual new innovation by just recycling am algam ations of ideas, art, and
just general stuff that already exists to be beheaded and sewn back to som ething else before spat out to the public. It is dishonest, it
cheapens the work, and m ost im portantly it rem oved the hum an aspect from  the things we love in our lives and from  the passion we put
into our work.
To appeal to a different side of the argum ent, Generative AI also leaves m ore room  for errors. Trained individuals who are specialists in
their careers in things like design, writing, art, and personal interactions with others can be prone to sim ple m istakes, but with tim e and
training large m istakes are far less likely to slip through the cracks. With the use of unregulated AI that is run by people with little care nor
knowledge on the subjects or fields they operate in, how are they going to be able to tell when the AI m ight m ake a m istake? Generative
AI program s have been known to grab false inform ation or harm ful content from  the internet, telling people things like it being ok to m ix
bleach with am m onia or displaying instances of child pornography. Even recently an AI-generated video of the president was displayed in
public com m itting indecent acts. This is horrifying and should not be welcom ed into corporate or legal spaces. We as people have to be
able to trust that knowledgeable specialists are doing their jobs and can take accountability for any m istakes that a hum an could m ake.
Who takes responsibility if an AI m esses up?
This com m ent and opinion piece was 100% hum an-m ade without any assistance from  an AI writing program .


