PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-45ln-pjtc
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1400
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Group of econom ic and AI experts coordinated by the NYU Stern Center for the Future of Managem ent
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Group of Econom ic and AI Experts Response to White House AI RFI Coordinated by the NYU Stern Center for the Future of
Managem ent


1 NYU Stern School of Business 
Center for the Future of Management  
44 W 4th St  
New York, NY 10012  
Faisal D'Souza, NCO  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  
Executive Office of the President  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Introduction  
We are a group of economic, policy, and AI experts coordinated by the New York 
University Stern School of Business Center for the Future of Management and are 
grateful for the opportunity to provide input to the White House Office of Science and 
Technology  Policy’s request for information on the Artificial Intelligence Action Plan. We 
see AI as a critical technology for the future of our country, and we see policy as playing 
a pivotal role in ensuring this future.  
AI Policy  
Artificial intelligence is a critical technology and leadership in AI is a key to America’s 
success. Fortunately, policymakers appreciate the importance of this emerging 
technology, and it has been a central focus for both the White House and U.S. 
Congress  over the past several years. The first Trump , Biden , and second Trump 
Administrations have all issued separate executive orders on AI. Last year, the 
Bipartisan Senate AI Working Group released a roadmap  for AI policy in May and the 
Bipartisan House Task Force on AI released a report  on AI in December. While there 
are disagreements between the political parties on many issues, AI has seen 
considerable amounts of bipartisanship in Washington. We believe AI should and can 
remain a bipartisan issue, even if the policy priorities change f rom administration to 
administration.  
The Trump Administration’s RFI has highlighted two key policy priorities for the new 
administration:  
●The desire to “sustain and enhance America's AI dominance”
●Ensuring “that unnecessarily burdensome requirements do not hamper private
sector AI innovation”


2 We believe promoting U.S. competitiveness and innovation through smart regulation 
and policy are important goals. We would like to offer our expertise in four key topics 
that we think are critical to achieving these goals:  
1.Productivity and Competitiveness
2.Innovation
3.Preparing the Workforce for Job Disruption
4.Regulation
Productivity and Competitiveness  
AI’s potential to boost productivity is critical to U.S. competitiveness. Historically, 
productivity gains have been a major driver of rising standards of living. The U.S.’s 
ability to tap into this potential can help critical sectors like technology, manu facturing, 
energy, financial services, and healthcare outperform international competitors.  
Understanding how the technology will impact firm and worker productivity is critical to 
tapping into AI as a source of American competitiveness. Economists have conducted 
firm level studies , finding that firms which invest more in AI experience higher growth in 
sales, employment, and market valuations. A literature review  analyzed AI’s impact on 
worker productivity and found preliminary evidence suggesting that AI generally boosted 
worker productivity in areas analyzed by economists, such as coding and writing. The 
review also found limits and barriers to AI boosting produ ctivity, including some areas 
where AI hurt productivity.  
The literature review further highlighted some limits to the existing studies: 1) The 
studies only looked at a small number of tasks workers completed in the economy; 2) 
Many of the studies were in more experimental rather than real world settings; 3) The 
studies were short -term in nature; 4) The studies did not look into how productivity might 
dramatically change as firms restructure around a technology and new firms and tasks 
emerge.  
Other studies  have discussed several examples of AI, as a general -purpose technology, 
that harbors the potential to significantly enhance productivity and address some of the 
most pressing global challenges. For example, generative AI is showing the promise of 
increase d productivity for management consultants both with respect to quantity of 
tasks completed (12.2 percent more tasks than a control group that did not use 
generative AI) and the quality achieved (40 percent higher). As another example, AI -
based chatbots hav e been shown to increase productivity of customer service agents, 
with the greatest impact on novice and low -skilled workers.  
The impacts of productivity on government efficiency and business competitiveness are 


3 critical to America’s success. Policymakers can help address some of the limitations of 
these studies through a series of pilot programs in the federal government and grants to 
corporations, universities, and other organizations in the U.S. to better under stand how 
AI impacts American worker productivity and competitiveness over the short - and long -
term. The research can help identify the strengths, limits, and best practices for 
leveraging the technology to boost U.S. productivity and competitiveness.  
Innovation  
AI has considerable potential  to boost scientific discovery and innovation. AI can 
advance science in fields ranging from energy to semiconductors to pharmaceuticals by 
automating and augmenting work done by scientists, engineers, and other researchers.  
Quality economic studies analyzing AI’s impact on scientific discovery in a real world 
setting are currently sparse. Fortunately, a recent working paper  from MIT analyzed the 
randomized introduction of an AI tool in a corporate lab in the field of materials 
sciences. The research found that scientists using the tool saw a 44% increase in 
materials discovery, 39% increase in patent filings, and 17% rise in  downstream 
production innovation. However, the study also showed that a majority of these 
scientists reported higher levels of job dissatisfaction over the two year period the AI 
tool was introduced.  
This research suggests AI could play a major role in advancing scientific discovery, 
which can foster major innovation and boost United States’ technological and economic 
competitiveness. The study also shows some of the challenges that might be 
encountere d in doing so that policymakers can help address.  
The potential for AI to accelerate discovery in science suggests that policymakers 
should take a holistic approach to AI, R&D, and innovation by looking across scientific 
disciplines. R&D in AI can boost innovation in AI, but by itself is unlikely to tap i nto the 
full potential of AI to boost innovation in key industries like energy, manufacturing, and 
healthcare. The successful adoption of AI in ways that boost innovation can help 
American scientists build familiarity and skills with the technology in ways  that can 
further drive American innovation.  
The administration could support increased funding across all domains that can benefit 
from leveraging AI for R&D or focus on key areas they want to prioritize, such as energy 
and biotechnology. Increased funding can help achieve other priorities set by th e Trump 
Administration, such as “energy dominance .” For instance, new materials discovery 
resulting from the use of AI, could be a key to improving our energy infrastructure and 
production in ways that enable us to lead in this field and support other indu stries 
through lower energy costs.  


4 The administration can also create pilot programs and funding to help identify 
opportunities, bottlenecks, and limitations to the use of AI for scientific discovery to help 
efficiently allocate resources and address challenges. For instance, further resear ch can 
identify whether the job dissatisfaction among scientists uncovered by the MIT study at 
the materials science lab is common across other domains and how this challenge 
might be addressed.  
The competitiveness of the U.S. economy will be significantly boosted if our federal 
labs, universities, and corporations realize how to best leverage AI to foster innovation 
across different scientific fields and industries.  
Preparing the Workforce for Job Disruption  
As some have argued ,  in order to succeed in an AI -first world, we need to create an AI -
ready workforce. While the impact of AI on jobs is hard to predict, we see opportunities 
and challenges that AI might bring to workers. For instance, we see the potential for AI 
to create  new industries that create the jobs of the future. However, we also see 
challenges with AI potentially automating many tasks currently done by entry level 
workers that serve as a way for these workers to enter a profession and build the 
valuable experienc e and connections they need to advance.  
If history is a guide, automation’s impact  on net jobs is unpredictable, even in industries 
where the automation is happening. For instance, automation corresponded with a 
decline in the share of jobs in the agriculture sector, but (counterintuitively) an increase 
in the share of jobs in the autom otive sector after the rise of the assembly line.  
There are some key differences between AI and past waves of automation . Unlike the 
industrial and information technology revolutions that focused on automating routine 
tasks following an explicit set of instructions (e.g. a sewing machine moving a needle up 
and down in a pattern or a spreadsheet sorting files by date) AI is focusing on non -
routine tasks that do not rely on explicit instructions, such as drawing an image, 
preparing a presentation, or writing a first draft of an article.  
Economists have tried to take a forward looking approach by identifying occupations 
and sectors of the economy that are relatively exposed to advances in AI. Results from 
these approaches  highlight that white collar workers are likely more exposed to 
advances in AI, but that there will likely be lots of variation across workers. Some of 
these approaches conceive of jobs as a series of tasks , and ask for each of these tasks 
whether AI can substitute for a human in completing the task. Jobs that have more 
tasks for which AI can substitute for a human are considered more exposed.  
Economists are only just beginning to understand conditions under which AI automates 


5 and augments human jobs. Just because a job may be highly exposed to advances in 
AI does not necessarily imply that the job is at risk of automation by AI. For example, in 
some cases even if AI “could” substitute for a human for some tasks, the relative co sts 
of substitution might be too high. Instead, the nature of the job itself might change in 
such a way that a human continues to do some tasks associated with the job whereas 
AI does other of the tasks.  
As highlighted in a recent National Academies report  on artificial intelligence and the 
future of work, there are still many unknowns about how the technology will evolve, and 
about how it will impact the economy and workforce. Given that the impact AI will have 
on jobs will be hard to predict, we suggest t he following approaches:  
1) upgrading the federal statistical system to meet the research and policymaking
needs created by AI;
2) filling data gaps to help policymakers and economists better monitor emerging
trends;
3) and supporting policies that promote worker resilience and adaptability given
the uncertainties around AI’s impact on labor markets.
First, as a recent American Statistical Association  report  recognizes, greater 
investments in the federal statistical system are necessary to upgrade the nation’s 
statistical infrastructure and meet the nation’s evolving needs for timely, trusted, and 
unbiased information. Indeed, the federal statistical agencies  have seen their budgets 
erode in inflation -adjusted terms over the last 15 years (whereas federal discretionary, 
nondefense spending has increased in real terms). The necessary investments extend 
beyond budgetary resources, suggesting that progress can be  made on many different 
fronts, including removing barriers to innovation in the federal statistical system and 
protecting the statistical agencies from undue political interference.  
Second, echoing a recent American Economic Association Committee on Economic 
Statistics white paper , we need better data to monitor the situation and have several 
data gaps that we need to fill. Since 2018, the U.S. Census Bureau has included 
questions about AI in its Annual Business Survey (ABS), and since December 2023 it 
has been tracking  the adoption of AI in its bi -weekly Business Trends and Outlook 
Survey (BTOS). An advantage of the BTOS data is that it is up -to-date. However, a 
limitation is that it is collected at the company level rather than at individual business 
locations. Large c ompanies often have multiple locations spread across different 
regions, which makes it difficult to analyze local impacts. To understand how AI 
adoption affects workers and local economies, we need data at the level of individual 
business locations.  


6 Moreover, many important policy questions cannot be fully addressed without such 
detailed data. For example, understanding how technology changes workers' 
experiences is crucial for shaping effective education, job training, and retraining 
programs. Withou t this insight, it becomes challenging to prepare individuals for the 
evolving workforce. Insight and best practices for preparation can be derived from the 
fields that have been most heavily and immediately impacted, such as writers . 
There are also unanswered questions about how AI adoption affects different regional 
economies. In some areas, the impact on jobs may be more severe because 
industries —and even specific job roles —are often concentrated in certain locations. If AI 
and robot ics replace jobs in these industries, regions that depend on them for 
employment and tax revenue could face significant economic challenges. Indeed, 
nascent research suggests that AI adoption  and robot adoption  are highly 
geographically concentrated.  
Further, collecting and sharing detailed data enables more accurate analysis of these 
complex issues. It also allows multiple researchers to verify findings, strengthening the 
reliability of studies and supporting better decision -making.  
Second, the uncertainty around AI’s impact on jobs requires a policy approach that 
fosters worker resilience and adaptability. One way that organizations can support this 
is with activities such as the GenAI promptathons which some have studied . Lifelong 
learning should be a key pillar to this approach. Policymakers can consider ways to both 
finance and develop an infrastructure around lifelong learning, such as using lifelong 
learning accounts, apprenticeship programs, and innovative credential ing methods.  
Another key pillar should be promoting AI literacy. Ensuring workers understand the 
opportunities and limits of AI can help prepare them to leverage the technology and 
remain competitive in the labor market.  The recent National Academies report  on 
artificial intelligence and the future of work highlighted that AI holds promise as a tool to 
help train the workforce. An empirical evaluation  of providing a health system’s 
workforce access to a secure, HIPAA -compliant GenAI model and support for its use is 
one example. Other areas, such as workplace governance around AI tools and social 
safety net design, can also be key pillars to this goal.  
Regulation  
The regulatory framework around AI has been evolving over the years domestically and 
internationally. Many federal agencies have considered ways to update their regulations 
and guidelines for AI, while state governments have been looking into new legislati on. 
Regulation is not inherently good or bad. When done well, it can help address concerns 
to build trust in a technology and foster adoption, but when done poorly, it can stifle 


7 innovation through excessive costs, restrictions, and unintended consequences. We 
offer the following observations to help guide the administration’s approach to 
regulation.  
The National Institute of Standards and Technology has taken a multistakeholder 
approach to designing voluntary soft law around AI, such as its AI risk management 
framework . While different administrations can and should decide what priorities to set 
for NIST, we strongly encourage NIST’s work on AI be properly funded to carry out its 
important work. John Soroushian (one of the authors) has found NIST to be very 
popular amon g various stakeholders he has interacted with from industry, civil society, 
academia, and government, including both Republicans and Democrats, throughout his 
work on AI policy in Washington. Soft law approaches like those provided by NIST can 
be flexible and serve as a model for hard law approaches, if the executive branch and 
Congress decide hard law is appropriate. An iterative approach to soft law can help 
foster learning and ensure that any hard law approaches modeled after it are well -
designed and not  overly burdensome, or even address certain concerns in a way that 
hard law may not be necessary.  
Leveraging existing laws when appropriate and tailoring regulation based on risk is also 
popular and can help reduce regulatory burdens. While working on the national strategy 
on AI for Congress and in his subsequent work, Soroushian has seen support for t hese 
two principles. He has further seen the House continue with this thinking in the 
Bipartisan Task Force on AI , which noted that “Policymakers can avoid duplicative 
mandates if they consider whether issues raised by AI are truly novel and without 
precedent or if existing laws and regulations already address the underlying concern” 
and which further stated “A thoug htful, risk -based approach to AI governance can 
promote innovation rather than stifle it.”  
Concluding Thoughts and Further Engagement  
AI’s transformative potential requires a whole -of-government approach that balances 
various policy goals. The administration's work on AI is critical and we appreciate the 
opportunity to comment on this key matter. We are happy to further elaborate on the 
issues discussed in our comment letter or other issues within our domain of expertise. 


8 Author Bios  
John Soroushian is a fellow at NYU Stern School of Business. He has previously 
worked at the Bipartisan Policy Center, US Treasury Department, and Brookings 
Institution. At the Bipartisan Policy Center, he initiated the think tank’s work on AI and 
co-led a n initiative to help put together a national strategy on AI for Congress that 
became the basis for a House Resolution that passed in 2020. This think tank effort 
took place in partnership with Reps. Will Hurd and Robin Kelly and involved 
collaboration with  key policymakers and stakeholders, including key members of the 
Trump Administration, such as Dr. Lynne Parker. John has led multiple technology 
policy initiatives since and has briefed members of Congress and the National AI 
Advisory Committee on AI poli cy.  
Dr. Tania Babina is an Associate Professor at the Robert H. Smith School of Business 
at the University of Maryland. She is also an affiliate of the National Bureau of Economic 
Research (NBER) and a Research Fellow at the Centre for Economic Policy Research  
(CEPR).  Her work has been published in top academic journals and has been cited in 
the Financial Times, Washington Post, and The New York Times, among others. Her 
research was cited in major recent US regulations on Open Banking and in the 
government ass essment of the UK Open Banking regulation as well as in the US White 
House Economic Report of the President.  
Dr. Erik Brynjolfsson is a Professor at Stanford with appointments in Economics, 
Business and the Institute for Human -center Artificial Intelligence. He directs the 
Stanford Digital Economy Lab and co -chaired the committee on AI and the Future of 
Work for the National Academy of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine. Brynjolfsson is 
the co -author of nine books including The Second Machine Age  and is one of the most 
cited researchers studying the productivity and workforce implications of AI.  
Dr. Avinash Collis is an Assistant Professor at the Heinz College at Carnegie Mellon 
University. His research interests include the economics of digitization, focusing on 
measuring the welfare gains from digital goods. His research has been covered in major 
media outlets and policy reports including the New York Times , Wall Street Journal , 
Washington Post , the Economist , CNN , BBC, Financial Times , Bloomberg , and NPR , 
and reports by the U .S. White House, Federal Reserve, Senate, and UK treasury.  
Dr. Christophe Combemale is an assistant research professor at Carnegie Mellon 
University in the Department of Engineering and Public Policy, with an affiliate 
appointment at the Heinz College of Information Systems and Public Policy. He is CEO 
and Princip al Partner at Valdos Consulting LLC. He is the co -lead of the Workforce 
Supply Chains Initiative at the Block Center for Technology and Society, which seeks to 


9 develop new tools for understanding the readiness of labor markets to respond to new 
skill demand from industrial expansion, and transition options for workers who face 
employment disruption. He has advised the National AI Advisory Committee, US DoD, 
US De partment of Commerce and state governments about workforce implications of 
AI, the possible patterns of automation for different forms of AI technology, and the 
potential resilience of labor markets to technological disruption.  
Dr. Jane Dokko was the Chief Economist of the Department of Commerce during 2023 -
2024, where she led critical analysis of a wide range of domestic issues related to U.S. 
competitiveness, innovation, and economic growth. She works at the intersection of 
public policy and research, examining the most important forces shaping economic 
opportunity and inequality. Her research has been published in leading academic 
journals and widely cited in the media, including The Wall Street Journal, Bloomberg, 
The Washingt on Post , and others.  
Dr. Martin Fleming is a Research Scientist at MIT Sloan and engaged in MIT’s 
Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Lab (CSAIL) FutureTech Project at the 
intersection of economics and computer science. Martin is the former IBM Chief 
Economist and Chi ef Analytics Officer and former Chief Revenue Scientist, Varicent, the 
Toronto -based sales -performance management software provider. He is a Fellow of 
The Productivity Institute, the UK research organization exploring what productivity 
means for business, workers, and communities and a consultant to the U.S. Bureau of 
Economic Analysis.  
Dr. Anindya Ghose is the Heinz Riehl Chair Professor of Technology and Marketing at 
New York University's Leonard N. Stern School of Business. He is the author of  two 
best selling books, TAP: Unlocking The Mobile Economy  and THRIVE: Maximizing 
Well-Being in the Age of AI . He has worked on digital platforms, reputation and rating 
systems, digital marketing, data privacy, mobile economy and AI. His research has 
been published in leading academic journals and been cited in numerous mainstream 
outlets including  The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, CNN, BBC  and others.  
Dr. Osea Giuntella is an Associate Professor of Economics at the University of 
Pittsburgh and a Research Associate with the National Bureau of Economic Research 
(NBER). His research focuses on health economics and public policy, particularly the 
impact of tech nology, robotics, and AI on worker health, as well as the role of policies 
and institutions.  His work has been published in top -tier academic journals, has 
informed policymakers, and received media attention. In 2024, he was invited to speak 
at the EU Council’s Ministerial Conference on worker well -being in the age of AI.  


10 Dr. Yong Lee is an Associate Professor of Technology, Economy, and Global Affairs at 
the Keough School of Global Affairs at the University of Notre Dame. Lee is also the 
Technology Ethics Program Chair at the Institute for Ethics and the Common Good. His 
research examines te chnology and labor, focusing on how artificial intelligence and 
robotics affect labor and inequality and how society interacts with these new 
technologies.  
Sam Manning is a Senior Research Fellow at the Centre for the Governance of AI 
(GovAI). His work focuses on measuring the economic impacts of frontier AI systems 
and designing policy options to help ensure that advanced AI can foster broadly shared 
economic prosperity. He previously conducted research at OpenAI and worked on a 
randomized controlled trial of a guaranteed income program in the US. Sam has a MSc 
in International and Development Economics from the Un iversity of San Francisco.  
Dr. Alexander Oettl is Professor of Strategy and Innovation at the Georgia Tech 
Scheller College of Business and a Research Associate at the National Bureau of 
Economic Research. His research focuses on the economics of innovation, 
entrepreneurship, and scienc e. His research has been profiled in numerous 
international media outlets including the Wall Street Journal , New York Times , Financial 
Times , Harvard Business Review , Nature , Science , Wired , among others.  
Dr. Manav Raj is an Assistant Professor in the Management Department at the Wharton 
School of the University of Pennsylvania. His research primarily focuses on 
understanding the downstream implications of technological change on competition and 
strategy, w ith a focus on digital technologies and artificial intelligence. Further, he 
studies how institutional features and non -market forces can shape innovation.  
Dr. Daniel Rock is an Assistant Professor in the Operations, Information, and Decisions 
department at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. His research 
focuses on the economic impact of digital technologies, with a particular focus on 
artificial intelligence. He is also a Digital Fellow at both Stanford HAI's Digital Economy 
Lab and the MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy, and a Schmidt Futures AI2050 Early 
Career Fellow. He received his B.S. in Economics from the University of Pennsylvan ia, 
and S.M. and Ph.D. from MIT.  
Dr. Robert Seamans is a Professor at New York University’s Stern School of Business, 
Director of the NYU Stern Center for the Future of Management, and a nonresident 
Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution. His research focuses on the economic 
consequen ces of AI, robotics and other advanced technologies. His research has been 
published in leading academic journals and has been widely cited. In 2015, Professor 


 
11 Seamans was appointed as the Senior Economist for technology and innovation on the 
White House Council of Economic Advisers.  
 
Dr. Neil Thompson is the Director of MIT FutureTech, a group of economists and 
computer scientists hosted in MIT’s Computer Science and AI Lab and the MIT Sloan 
School of Management. His work focuses on how AI is evolving and what that means 
for job automa tion and scientific progress. He has been published in top academic 
journals across five fields and written about in the New York Times , Time  and many 
others.  
 
Dr. Batia Wiesenfeld is the Andre J.L. Koo Professor of Management at New York 
University’s Stern School of Business, Director of the Business & Society Program, and 
has an affiliated appointment in the Department of Population Health at NYU Langone 
Health . She is an expert on organizational change and her recent NSF - and NIH -
supported research explores how AI and digital technologies are changing work and 
organizations in healthcare. She received her B.A. in Economics and Sociology from 
Columbia College an d PhD in management from Columbia Business School.  
 
The NYU Stern School of Business’  Center for the Future of Management  (CFM) draws 
from expertise across NYU Stern to foster cutting -edge research on major shifts in the 
global business landscape, such as globalization, the changing nature of work, and 
opportunity and challenges from new technologies such as artificial intel ligence. The 
Center also hosts conferences for academic, industry and policy audiences at the 
intersection of technology, strategy and public policy, including conferences on the  
Economics of Robots   and Artificial Intelligence  at NYU’s Washington DC location, and 
on the Benefits and Challenges of  Open Source Software  at NYU Stern’s NYC location.  
Note  
This document is approved  for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  


