PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-n4fu-t673
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2519
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Patrick Menard  
General Comment
I am  a tech worker and I have serious concerns with the path AI developm ent is going down in this country. Specifically, the phrase
"ensure that unnecessarily burdensom e requirem ents do not ham per private sector AI innovation" m akes m e worry that the large AI firm s
are pushing to underm ine our copyright law and render our intellectual property laws m eaningless. This is particularly concerning in light of
China's DeepSeek, which for far less m oney, tim e and energy produced an open m odel that easily rivaled the m ost advanced AI in this
country, yet AI firm s here seem  intent to com pete with this not by im proving the underlying structures of their products, but instead by
attacking the protections this country is supposed to have for intellectual property.
I have m y concerns with the efficacy of AI in m any if not m ost situations where it is currently used, and I strongly believe that blindly
running down our current course of AI developm ent will erode the quality of our very society let alone the products it produces. If we
truly desire to lead the world in AI, then the goal should not be to produce the m ost cum bersom e, brute force, expensive and intrusive AI,
but rather to create the m ost efficient (faster, less energy intensive, less water intensive, etc), accurate and targeted AI to achieve
unm atched quality in specific sectors to which AI is m ost well suited. A catch-all approach that violates the basic principles this country is
supposed to stand for will not m ake us a world leader in this industry. Please don't cave to pressure from  the big AI firm s, instead
encourage them  to do better. The best innovations often arise from  difficult situations—m aking the life of AI firm s easier and deferring to
their every whim  will not push them  to im prove at all!
Please, regulate AI not just to protect intellectual property, prevent waste (tim e, m oney, energy, water, etc) and so on, but also to push
these AI com panies to rethink and innovate how they operate instead of coddling them  resulting in inefficient, stale, cum bersom e, deeply
flawed and expensive products that will easily be outcom peted by com panies in other countries that take this m ore seriously.


