PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0dux-l3fy
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6561
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Shirley Zhu
General Comment
The United States needs to better regulate the use of AI to ensure quality. Tim e and tim e again, we've seen that less governm ent oversight
in the private sector results in cut corners and m istakes that have turned deadly at the cost of the Am erican lives. The there is already little
oversight in how AI developed and used, which results in m ass-produced, cheap, bad quality product that's worth less than the energy
used to generate it. For exam ple, I recently googled "how to cycle a fish tank" and the first few pages of results were polluted with the
sam e generic AI-generated inform ation that was of little help and wasted m y tim e. Now, I have to search for forum s or for things
specifically published before AI language m odels becam e widespread just to know that an actual person wrote the article, at the cost of
outdated inform ation that could be wrong now. What if that sam e search was for how to handle a m edical em ergency while the am bulance
arrives? The technology should m ake life easier and be optional, not force people to waste their tim e separating the good inform ation from
the rest.
Intellectual property should also be legally protected, not rem oved. The lack of it disincentivizes innovation, not only in the technology
sector, but everywhere. If the governm ent can't guarantee protection for an individual's creative work, then what m akes us different from  a
socialist country? It's an open invitation for brilliant m inds to m ove elsewhere, where their intellectual property and hard work are valued
instead of taken. AI generated "art" has already replaced som e creative work, putting people out of jobs or resulting in the expectation
that creatives work for less than m inim um  wage for skills that took a lifetim e to build up. Science and technology m ight be the backbone of
our nation, but creative work is the living soul and Am erica would not be the sam e without it.


