PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-xnog-9rx5
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4757
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
wh Ai action plan com m ent_m ar 15 2025


I am an American who previously tried to make a living as a freelance artist. While this is no longer my 
trade, I still have many friends in that industry who have been adversely affected by the new AI bubble.
I share their concerns about proposed copyright exemptions for Big Tech companies. If the average 
American is beholden to things like the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, it will be unfair for AI 
system developers to be above such regulations and train models on the work-and personal family 
photos-that Americans have posted on the Internet without their consent.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective consent, so 
that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the incentive to 
create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic value, so the value generated 
by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, requiring them to 
disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI systems, 
and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds 
of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues. 


