PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1vm p-aa86
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7814
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Taylor Rum m es
General Comment
To Whom  it May Concern...
It is the belief of this writer that Generative AI (Artificial Intelligence) is one of the greatest threats facing Am erican production and industry
at this present tim e. Generative AI's sam pling process im plem ents the unregulated plagiarism  of content created by Am erican Workers
and the rem oval of hum an consideration from  the productive process. 
This will certainly lead to the disincentivization of all form s of creative work on not just artistic fronts, but in industrial and corporate
environm ents as well. If Am erican Creators cannot reliably m ake a living without risking their work being copies and reused/resold without
their consent, overall production will experience a sharp decline. The continued em ploym ent of Generative AI from  this point will result in
hom ogenization of Am erican Production, ultim ately rendering the United States unable to produce com petitive, quality products - an
eventuality with drastic econom ic consequences.
The rights of Am erican Creative Workers m ust be protected, and these workers m ust be trusted to continue delivering well-crafted
products worthy of investm ent. Generative AI is a short-term  savings schem e with devastating long-term  effects, and m ust not be allowed
to continue sourcing itself off of the works of non-consenting Am erican workers or be used as a low-cost alternative to quality work.
It is the duty of this adm inistration to guard the rights of the Am erican people and ensure Am erica's ability to continue com peting at the
highest level in the production of creative work. 
To be clear: This adm inistration is expected to stand against the rise of Generative AI and its application in Am erican production.
Thank you,
Taylor D. Rum m es, US Citizen
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be
reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.


