PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-00ei-aoo9
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6267
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Andi Santagata
Em ail:  
General Comment
From :
Andi Santagata
Cartoonist
Upper Valley, Verm ont
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am  a working class Am erican who has worked in the cartooning and video gam e industry for the past 17 years. I have worked hard for
years to develop the skills and knowledge to build m y business, and have been proud to contribute to the great Am erican institutions of
entertainm ent that define us as a culture, from  film  to com ic books.
The AI system s m ade by Big Tech com panies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy thousands of Am erican jobs and
bodies of work like m ine with their recent dem and to create special carve outs in copyright law.
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. My unique work, and the work of hundreds of thousands of
other everyday Am erican creators was taken and fed into these AI system s without our consent or any com pensation. Any work I create,
without m y consent or knowledge, can be twisted to anyone else's use and profit. How would you feel if som eone told you they could
take your entire life's work, act like they m ade it, and then sell it to other people without you seeing a dim e?
Now these Big Tech com panies are asking this adm inistration to create exceptions and loopholes to m ake this practice of stealing
Am erican creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a m achine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it
is som ehow suddenly “fair use”. 
They seem  to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim
that if this adm inistration does not allow them  to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle Am erican innovation. I am  here to say that the
Am erican people are the backbone of Am erican innovation.
The purpose of Am erican copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the Am erican people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the
incentive to create? If everyday Am ericans create a new innovative piece of com puter code, a new visual design, or a new piece of m usic
only to have it im m ediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly m ake a living
doing these things? Is it not incredibly un-Am erican to say that anything you create is autom atically free to use by the state or state-
approved corporations?
Want to protect Am erican innovation? Protect Am erican creators. Do not create new copyright exem ptions that allow Big Tech
com panies to exploit and steal from  creators and everyday Am ericans without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency.
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech com panies, but rather on ensuring a fair
m arketplace with com petition:


The governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, so that we can decide when and where our
work is used by AI system s. The AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what
m aterial is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
I am  not anti-technology or anti-AI. As som eone with a robust history of work in gam e developm ent, I've been proud to help develop
m any AI system s of m y own design, including pathing and m odeling hum an behavior. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of
hundreds of thousands of Am ericans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law - it would fundam entally destroy the
institution of Am erican entertainm ent, one of our proudest accom plishm ents.
Thank you for the opportunity to com m ent on these im portant issues.


