PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-06ir-m 4ek
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6406
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
AI is an area of technology that has rapidly developed within the last few years, and alongside that rapid developm ent has followed an
even m ore aggressive growth of financial interest in the area. This financial interest has led to an eschewing of caution as the m echanism s of
finance continue to invest m ore and m ore into a technology that has failed to produce widespread dem and from  consum ers. 
Furtherm ore, AI has the potential to be highly destructive to a variety of industries, and the environm ent. Generative AI focused on
creating text, im ages, and videos put at risk the careers of lifelong artists and creators. Am erica, as the global leader in film , Television,
and m usic should be doing everything it can to uplift and protect creators, not outsourcing their jobs to m achines.
Furtherm ore, the energy dem ands of AI can only be characterized as wantonly wasteful, especially in a period of tim e where we stand at
the brink of a clim ate disaster.
AI is a technology with great potential, and for decades m achine learning has been delivering technological advancem ents that greatly
im prove the life of everyday people. I am  certain that AI will continue to lead to significant technological developm ents in the future as
well. 
However, the current push for widespread, unregulated adoption of generative AI risks sapping vitality from  the creative workforce of
Am erica, and draining Am erica’s environm ental resources, with no clear benefit beside enriching those who control the technology.
AI m ust be strongly regulated. Regulation is what forces com panies to act in the interest of the Am erican people. While regulation m ay
increase the difficulty of developing value for corporations, that is not the concern of the US governm ent nor the concern of the Am erican
people.


