PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-ncu3-4igr
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2543
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
While I understand the concern with international developm ents on this technology, the current approach is being done with a very short-
sighted view. The original developers and researchers of what we call artificial intelligence have long warned us against using it without
m uch restriction. There are better approaches that can be done to continue developm ent without harm ing Am erican people and Am erican
culture. 
We need to keep things that involve and require hum an experiences and judgem ent to hum anity. We are already seeing negative im pacts
against Am ericans by using this technology to circum vent processes that need hum an judgem ent. This is seen in m any jobs right now
where Am ericans are getting autom atically rejected regardless of whether they qualified or not, since these applications are being
processed as variables rather than for qualifications. 
We will also be degrading Am erican culture by leaving everything to com puterized ideas, which cannot live full lives as Am ericans to
enrich us and show the world who we are. Everything that defines us will be jum bled into a gam e of telephone by a com puter based off of
calculated inputs, rather than have us defined by Am ericans with rich and different lives that can bring pride to our country. A com puter
can be com pletely copied while a skilled Am erican cannot. 
Because these are com puters as well, they can easily be m anipulated and worked around and we are haphazardly leaving judgem ent onto
these devices. We have already faced great cyberattacks in our country with data breaches, who is to say our Artificial Intelligence cannot
be tam pered with by another country to harm  us? We are already having issues protecting our system s and this technology is far too new
to rely on it.
However, This is to not say we do not need Artificial Intelligence whatsoever and that we need to handicap ourselves based off of these
concerns. There is ways it can still be develop and I urge the United States to take som e tim e to think about their strategy thoroughly
rather than with haste. There is a long history with this technology that is being overlooked that should be a factor into this decision.
I believe as a way to continue developm ent and to use this technology to its full, true potential, we need to be focused on its use
m athem atically, just like any other com puter technology. We can greatly use this technology to speed up progress in other developm ents
in other industries, without com pletely replacing those jobs. For exam ple som e industries require very lengthy calculations as a part of the
job, which can be sped up greatly with the assistance of AI. We can use this technology to enhance our current algorithm s in our
infrastructure, which wouldn't affect jobs as those algorithm s are already written down and tend to be set in stone.


