PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-ruq7-lick
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3051
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Cyrus Joh nson, Esq. 
General Comment
This white paper addresses artificial intelligence in the field of Law. 
I am  a lawyer and AI for Law builder in Dallas, Texas.
Am erica m ust lead in the realm  of AI for Law, just as it has in law for alm ost 250 years.
Attachments
Open Source Am erica AI for Law Worldwide


OPEN SOURCE AMERICA 
LAW EXPRESSED AS/IN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
A HUMAN IMPERATIVE
WHITE PAPER
ON THE NECESSITY OF AMERICA
TO RECOGNIZE AI’S FUNDAMENTAL ROLE
IN THE PROTECTION AND TRANSMISSION
OF FUNDAMENTAL HUMAN LIBERTIES 
IN LAW AS ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
SIX PROPOSALS
March 15, 2025
By Cyrus J. Johnson, Esq.
Texas and California Attorney 
Introduction and Executive Summary 
American must lead the world in AI for Law. The most American AI systems will be the best 
systems for ensuring accuracy and human freedom for all.
Regarding the Law, which binds all around the globe in various jurisdictions, one thing is 
absolutely clear that with respect to Artificial Intelligence, its impact on Law belongs to all, not 
just to lawyers and the legal profession. Because it will touch all, either from their own use of 
LLMs or related tools, or for its inclusion of these tools’ datasets.
Since it is a first-of-its-kind omni-data omni-tool which is capable of absorbing, interpreting, 
reformulating, and communicating data, it is a technical (not even legal) reality that it will 
impact Law which is comprised of documents, words, rules, and factual and legal precedents.
The ways in which Law is accessed, used and delivered by practitioners, determined by courts, 
drafted by legislatures, implemented, enforced, and understood has fundamentally changed 
overnight with the advent of data’s and every network’s and the Internet’s single most powerful 
technology.


People will now access the Law in a wholly new way with AI. It represents not an addition to the 
well-understood profession and practice of law. It represents an entirely new modality. Retail, 
DIY , self-directed Law for the first time in history.
History and the world’s bulwark for individual civil liberties, due process, and sound 
administration of justice, the United States must take a leadership role in beginning (and 
remaining actively in) this discussion and in shaping content norms which can see technology as 
an effective engine for liberty and freedom worldwide, creating a more just world. 
Today and tomorrow, freedom through Law will now be expressed and accessed in technology 
primarily as Artificial Intelligence.
This is not only  in America’s interest. This  is America’s ontological interest (purpose) today and 
in history.
American must embrace an open source methodology with respect to AI for Law – individual 
freedom expressed – though Law – globally (now) inside Artificial Intelligence.


On American Ontology of Freedom in History 
America is the expression of human freedom in history. Human freedom in history is America.
America has long been regarded as the leader in the advancement of human freedom in the 
world. It is a role rooted in its founding principles, which are drawn from the highest historical 
learnings of government, freedom, and philosophy. 
These are reinforced in the design of its official documents and state systems. The   Declaration 
of Independence (1776) and the United States Constitution (1789) and the Bill of Rights (1791) 
proclaim fundamental inalienable rights to “life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.” 
These were and are national ideals. Yet these are first and always human ideals -- the rights of all 
endowed by virtue of their very lives are the basis of these. And so, they are protected to all 
Americans, and yet also apply to every person in the world. 
To the world, these public declarations and protections were groundbreaking and have over 
centuries served as inspiration for other nations wishing to ensure freedom and liberty for their 
people. 
The United States Constitution is the shortest, and longest enduring national governing document 
in history. It is fundamentally different from other governing documents in the world, and of 
history. It does not declare what the people may or may not do. It declares and binds the 
government itself, on what it may do and not do. And it reserves any and all non-delegated legal 
prerogatives to the people. And it states that in case of controversy, that the rights of the people 
govern first and primarily.
This system has endured for nearly 250 years, despite the obvious raucousness of the bold 
proposition that a diverse people shall be in charge. It alone has brought order to disorder in the 
world not by restraining people, but by restraining a state’s control over the people.


Finally, since these are human principles and not only American principles, over history America 
has taken a leadership role whenever it became clear that freedom or liberty were endangered 
anywhere in the world. This led to its costly participation in the Second World War, to its 
leadership thereafter rebuilding Europe with the Marshall Plan, to more recent wars in Asia and 
the Middle East. 
A freer world is a safer and more stable world, for America and for everyone. Freedom in the 
Law, re-stated inside every Artificial Intelligence “dataset” worldwide, is a human imperative.
What has AI to do with America and the Law?
Increasingly, humankind is uniting across borders through the facility of technology. Examples 
of companies like Facebook, Google, and more, serve to erase geography and nation and now 
(due to maturation of real time translation technologies, including AI ones) language barriers and 
cultural ones. 
With respect to human data, this surely means what I have called a GUDA (Global Unified Data 
Age) AKA “The Great Collation.”
AI technologies are “absorbing” all the content of humankind from all the ages. And today. And 
tomorrow. 
Humanity through AI will succeed in creating, through diverse companies (LLMs) or national 
efforts (China) one dataset of humankind. 
The implications are myriad. This paper deals only with the impact on Law and legal technology. 
With respect to Law, imagining a database of Law which is cross-border, culturally agnostic, and 
jurisdiction and legal-system agnostic – there is a great risk/temptation that popular interpretation 


of data will overcome realities of Law, and this is no more important than in the area of 
fundamental American (human) civil liberties.
One can imagine various lawful statutes, or even Constitutional Principles, re-interpreted (or 
mis-interpreted) accidentally or purposefully – and those rights nullified in popular practice even 
if doing so was not legally sound.
It is the difference between what we understand in the law as de jure  (what the law is) and de 
facto  interpretation (how the law is applied actually).
With respect to fundamental human civil liberties, on which America had led and continues to 
lead, the risk that AI technologies could “nullify” in interpretation or administration is too great 
to risk. For technology could undo and quickly what has been done for the good of humanity.
What is the solution to this risk with respect to Artificial Intelligence 
and Law? 
Open Source America, in the form of an omni-national technology leadership (AI), in every 
place, and in every dataset, anywhere where human freedom wishes to reign. American freedom 
through accurate statement of Law as required data.
In order to preserve the rights of man, as artificial intelligence technologies anywhere continually 
“capture” it and “state (or misstate)” it, American leadership is thus not only essential to the 
success (and a nation’s success at) a technology which stands poised to do the greatest amount of 
good since the Internet, but moreover, one which will determine the freedom of Americans and 
humankind on a going forward basis.
Six Recommendations for American AI + Law:
1.AI Law is Preferential.  In large measure, code has been written by non-Law
trained persons which content may or may not accurately accord with the Law. Law is not


just “one other kind of AI.” Since it alone arbitrates human freedom and rights, it is a 
special privileged class of AI. AI for Law should have preference in AI policy. And, in 
order to create accurate artificial intelligence tools for America, lawyers and the legal 
community must be prioritized in the creation the tools and systems today and tomorrow. 
2.Law as Human Good. AI in Law should not be automatically
classed as “high risk. ” In many places, such as the European Union, permitting
structures are proposed due to the presumed risk that Law is an “area of potential
harm/risk.” While there are certainly risks in misapplication or misunderstanding of law,
setting up a state-system to “pick winners and losers” in which companies or persons
shall “write” the AI disserves the cause of Law, and the freedom of the people.
This is because those chosen naturally act in their own (pecuniary) self-interest. And if 
freedom is the ultimate good of American law, the only risk is that a place which wants to 
inhibit human freedom would classify American AI tools as “high risk” in order to block 
access. Freedom is not a risk. Lack of freedom is a risk.
3.Global US AI Law. Cross-border (international) access to
American AI for Law tools should be legally presumed.  In the prior
technological regime of the Internet, countries would establish national requirements for
websites. This meant that large corporations have been required to have a different
website for each country. Such restrictions applied to AI for Law will only compromise
both the AI and the Law. American Law AI tools, and American Law AI content, should
flow freely to any place they are desired by the people, without inordinate state
restrictions.
4.Digital All of Law. Begin a national initiative to digitize all
American Law. As the world has moved into a digital era with the Internet, there is a
preference for not relying on “dusty old books.” And yet in our older Law tomes are
contained some of the most important “secrets” of the Law which free humankind. These
must all be captured and made available to the people for the cause of American and


human successful exercise of fundamental human freedom. 
The Internet age of the last generation saw much of this digitization done by private 
interests. Often private company interests (some non-American) obtain then license (for a 
fee, and with restrictions) Law materials. Since the Law, and access to same, belongs to 
every American and free person as a human right, a national initiative to scan capture and 
“Free the Law” for access and study by all must be a priority.
5.America.GPT or AmericaLLM All of American Law should be made
available online to the people conversatively using AI
technologies. Each state and county hosts at public expense law libraries. These are
to endure the people’s lawful easy and public access  to the Law which governs them. For
the first time in history, it is possible to capture all these materials (as above) and give the
citizen (or anyone in the world seeking freedom) access via artificial intelligence chat.
There is no good reason why this legal requirement, and “freedom grower” should not be
created.
6.Liberty in Every Dataset.  It should be policy to embed, to the extent and with the
means possible, American legal principles inside of every AI tool in the world. Because
these represent the “highest technology in human freedom,” as determined by history, it
is a manifest good for humanity, and in America’s interest to see that these principles be
included for access by all around the world.
Author : Cyrus Johnson is a business and civil liberties attorney for almost 23 years with 
practices in Texas and California. As he sees AI as the next “expression” of Law in America and 
the world, he is also an AI for Law engineer and tool builder.


