PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1jvw-kvyc
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7531
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
As a graphic designer and artist of m ultiple years, nobody with any kind of conscience can allow AI any sort of copyright protections.
Sanctioning generative AI is condoning theft, as it is "trained" via STEALING the work of creatives from  all avenues of life to benefit those
that are too lazy to learn any sort of craft. Sam  Altm an, the CEO of OpenAI, recently stated that "it would be im possible to train today’s
leading AI m odels without using copyrighted m aterials," m aking it clear that this plan would be used to violate copyrights that are essential
to protecting actual innovators in fields ranging from  m athem atics and sciences to engineering to journalism  to arts and literature.
(https://com m ittees.parliam ent.uk/writtenevidence/126981/pdf/). Tools like Generative AI have done IMMENSE dam age to m ultiple
industries as it is and put thousands of hard-working Am ericans out of jobs that they trained for years to obtain. It has done all of this
dam age and yet, still, it's capabilities are not com parable to a hum an in any fashion. r exam ple, just two years ago, CNET replaced their
financial news desk with "AI," which went on to pen articles with glaring, sim ple, and crucial errors. (https://futurism .com /cnet-ai-errors)
There are other issues with the "AI" industry, as well, such as the environm ental im pact, which, given the adm inistration's lack of concern
for global clim ate change, m ay not be a m ajor issue in this deliberation. (https://www.instituteforenergyresearch.org/clim ate-change/big-
corporations-are-abandoning-their-clim ate-com m itm ents/) 
Generative AI DOES NOT deserve any protections under our legal system , unless our governm ent would also like to start allowing
people to steal from  grocery stores and sanction online piracy too. I hope that you will strongly consider the m oral and environm ental
concerns that AI brings and do the right thing: not giving it any sort of protection or claim  to any copyright system . Thank you.


