PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-9d04-anlq
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1458
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Hazel AI Technologies, Inc.
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Hazel NSF RFI Developm ent of AI Action Plan


1 
March 10, 2025  
Faisal D’Souza  
National Coordination Office  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Re: Hazel Comments on Development of an Artificial Intelligence ( AI) Action Plan 
Dear Mr. D’Souza:  
Hazel AI Technologies, Inc. appreciates the opportunity to provide our comments on the request 
for information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (“Plan”) by the 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National 
Coordination Office (NCO).  
As founders of Hazel, an AI -powered procurement solution for government, we commend 
President Trump’s Executive Order 14179 that the United States should enhance American’s AI 
dominance in order to promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and n ational 
security.  Hazel believes that the application and use of AI in the public sector can improve 
government operations while saving employee time and taxpayer money.  Hazel’s AI platform 
provides a leading example of the benefits available to taxpayers.   Hazel users save time by 
cutting procurement time by 90% and money, and are also able to work with suppliers that 
otherwise would not be part of the procurement process, expanding vendor access by 10x. This 
brings new small businesses into the fold, furt hering the economic benefit for AI in the US.   
Hazel was founded in 2024 to modernize and streamline government and public sector 
purchasing. By automating key procurement processes including solicitation, drafting, vendor 
identification, compliance management and contract optimization, Hazel accelerat es decision -
making while ensuring full regulatory compliance.  The company’s proprietary AI technology 
simplifies complex procurement workflows, reduces costs and enhances vendor diversity by 
making supplier data more actionable.  Hazel’s team has deep exp ertise in AI, software, 
government, and acquisitions and is relentless in our delivery of cutting -edge solutions to 
government partners. The broader Hazel team leverages prior experience from companies 
including Palantir, Boston Consulting Group (BCG), Loc kheed Martin, Peraton, MITRE, 
SpaceX, and two founded and exited startups where they supported U.S. Army, Navy, Air Force, 
Space Force, USIC, state utility entities, and private companies in acquisition and sustainment 


2 
support.  Hazel partners with federal, state and local agencies including educational institutions 
and defense organizations to drive smarter, faster and more accountable procurement.  
Within 6 months, the team rapidly deployed the Hazel AI Acquisitions and Contracting Platform 
and its underlying specialized AI agents. These agents enable government procurement clients to 
draft compliant, full scope solicitation, RFP, RFI, market researc h, and acquisitions justification 
documents in hours instead of months.  They also manage clients’ entire acquisitions pipeline 
and reduce the time from requirements definition to procurement by weeks.  Hazel has also built 
complementary AI -enabled modules  to turbocharge existing acquisitions pipeline tasks. The 
cornerstone of Hazel's approach is our proprietary acquisitions -specific, fine -tuned LLM that 
enables advanced, low -touch procurement task execution for government clients across the 
United States.  
Hazel platform incorporates several distinct AI-powered capabilities. Hazel leverages state of the 
art natural language processing (NLP) models for its large language models (LLMs) needs. 
Hazel’s LLMs process user queries for acquisitions needs and analyze relevant documents. Hazel 
also uses optical character r ecognition (OCR) tools to parse documents to derive full context and 
structure. OCR makes historical data in any format highly valuable for LLM -powered content 
generation.  Additionally, Hazel employs  varied AI approaches for acquiring market research by 
matching vendors to requirements and enriching vendor data through AI -powered web -scraping. 
Hazel has a proprietary methodology for collecting and documenting vendor capabilities by 
combining datasets from federal government, local government, and commercial industry. 
Systems of record (e.g., SAM.gov), websites, and other databases are trawled at regular intervals 
by AI agents, summarized & analyzed via a series of NLP techniques, and then labeled with AI 
agents (e.g., NAICS codes). This methodology has allowed Hazel to identify >10M potential 
vendors.  
Based on Hazel’s experience, below are our recommendations of core concepts to be 
incorporated in the AI Action Plan:  
1)Apply existing technology frameworks.  AI may be transformative, but it is not without
precedent. In many cases, government can evaluate AI applications within existing
technology frameworks in order to govern implementation, rather than creating new
frameworks. Encouraging the use of industry frameworks such as NIST AI Risk
Management Framework (RMF) and best practices will promote innovation. Companies
will already be familiar with existing conditions so they continue to build and operate in
the environme nt they know and will allow the government to adopt and use new
technologies faster working in the current structure.


3 
2)Differentiate between productivity tools and decision -making tools.  AI regulations
should focus on mitigating known risks and protecting against malicious activities rather
than preventing a specific modality.  In this case, the concerning activity relating to AI is
decision -making, and particularly, the making of consequ ential decisions.  AI regulation
should not address productivity tools without decision -making capabilities.  When
business cases are highly complex, it makes sense that the task should not  be entirely
delegated to AI.  However, Hazel provides an example of a productivity tool; it assists,
but does not replace, human decision making. Hazel believes it’s important to distinguish
that, with current AI, there remain pitfalls to using the technology to replace human
decision -making.
3)Start with easy low -hanging fruit .  For AI to ensure there are no unintended
consequences, government should start with use cases that best suit AI’s strengths. Hazel
believes that procurement provides one example of functionality where AI can safely add
short term benefits with minimal r isk.  Other examples include AI cameras for traffic
control to enhance public safety and infrastructure or AI -powered tools to improve
government transparency, like the transcription of public government meetings. Once the
benefits of use cases like these have been proven, government can develop additional
guardrails for more challenging
4)Incorporate Modular Open Systems Architecture (MOSA) principles.   MOSA
principles will be crucial to meet government agencies’ requirements for scalability,
security and interoperability.  For example, Hazel leverages a microservices -based
containerized architecture to ensure systems are highly adaptable to evolving miss ion
requirements, capable of integrating seamlessly with existing systems, and scalable to
support growing operational demands. Additionally, solutions should be designed to
support diverse  cyber environments including unclassified, classified and airgapped
operations, ensuring functionality across the full spectrum of use cases. Hazel's baseline
software architecture is segmented into three distinct layers: data, model, and application.
Each layer is self -contained, allowing independent improvements, updates, and scaling
without affecting the other layers. This segmentation enables Hazel to handle complex
procurement tasks efficiently, such as integrating structured and unstructured solicita tion
data, generating justifications for selected regulation clauses, and exporting selected
clauses seamlessly to external contract writing systems.
5)Prioritize sustainment and lifecycle management.  Lifecycle management is a
cornerstone approach to AI system design.  Hazel’s strategy includes proactive system


4 
and module updates, long -term technical support and comprehensive training programs to 
ensure user readiness and adoption. This approach emphasizes lifecycle management by 
continuously monitoring performance, integrating user feedback and evolving 
capabili ties to align with emerging requirements.  
6)Support Public -private partnerships.  The human capital currently producing AI is
exclusively in the private sector.  Public -private partnerships will enable the government
to work hand in hand with AI developers to create technology that follows important
regulations while not stifling innova tion. In particular, this can be extremely beneficial to
small businesses, like Hazel.  Partnerships between the federal government and the
private sector will increase shared learnings, improve AI implementation, acce ss and
mitigate risks while helping small businesses grow.
7)Federal Guidance to Preempt State Regulations. As we’ve seen with data privacy
laws, there is currently a patchwork of regulations that vary state -by-state.  In order to
promote innovation, it would be ideal for the federal government to offer guidance that
would preempt state regulations so that the c ountry as a whole continues to move forward
with AI.
8)Streamlined Federal IT Procurement. Government utilization of AI can improve
access to important services for taxpayers, save time and money in government and bring
additional data into important decisions.  In order to improve the use of AI in the public
sector, there needs to be more flexi bility in procurement vehicles.
We understand that some have raised concerns with AI’ s application in the public sector, but 
with the right guidance in place, AI’s innovation and competition will ultimately help our 
economy and businesses, while making government functions like procurement more efficient, 
effective, and innovative.  
We believe it is important to look at AI as an opportunity for small businesses across the country 
to grow American prosperity through the use of innovative AI.  Instead of regulations and 
government agencies limiting growth or having larger legacy players  fight over their slice of pie, 
we should be focused on growing the pie as a whole and AI innovation is the tool while small 
businesses are the vehicle to get us there. The AI Action Plan should give consideration to the 
potential implications any proposed  regulatory policies would have on small businesses and 
ensure that the AI Action Plan supports our technology ecosystem.  


5 
Thank you for the opportunity to share our perspectives around AI. We hope our 
recommendations are taken into consideration during the development of the AI Action Plan. 
Please feel free to reach out with any questions and we look forward to continuing to work with 
the United States government.   
Sincerely,  
August Chen and Elton Lossner  
Co-Founders  
Hazel AI Technologies, Inc.  
This document is approved for public dissemination.  The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information.  Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution . 


