PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-q8dm -chb8
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2799
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Steven Swanson  
General Comment
Excluding com panies that utilize AI from  copyright law will bring about the death of the trillion-dollar entertainm ent industry in the United
States, taking along with it m uch of the professional class.
Make m o m istake. Writers, artists, photographers, film m akers, m usicians, designers, architects, engineers, software developers, all m ake
use of technology to enhance their craft, but until now each new tool has not infringed upon the basic ownership that these creators have
over their creations. 
We already have clear evidence that generative AI takes enorm ous am ounts of copyrighted m aterials without the consent of their owners
and uses them  to train and refine AI m odels, often with the express objective of depriving the aforem entioned copyright owners of their
livelihoods. 
It is disturbingly easy to achieve. An AI can take a fraction of an artist's body of work, work that frequently has taken a lifetim e to perfect
and distinguish, and then begin producing unauthorized likenesses of their work within m inutes, flooding galleries and im age searches with
counterfeits and m isrepresentations, drowning the creator in a procedurally generated flood of slop.
What does this ultim ately m ean? In no sm all term s, the evisceration of art and entertainm ent. Creators will continue to create, but if they
believe that sharing their work online will result in wholesale theft then they will have no incentive to do so. Those that survive will find their
way to ply their trade outside the U.S. econom y, with the m ost straightforward m ethod being to relocate to a country that does protect
their intellectual property. Our loss will be their gain.
While the creators vanish, consum ers will be inundated with derivative, inauthentic slop produced in quantities too vast to be adequately
inspected or regulated, and consum ers will lose faith in the ability of m edia to inform , inspire, and entertain. All you have to do is conduct a
Google im age search to see just how pervasive the problem  already is, with up to 90% of results being A.I. generated derivatives that
distort and destroy public trust. AI is even being used to quickly create spoof websites of news sites, retailers, financial services, and even
em ergency services, stealing citizens' sensitive inform ation and m oney while giving nothing of value in return.
As it stands, com panies invested in AI do not have a credible best use case for this technology, with m ost investing in it based on a fear of
m issing out on the Next Big Thing. No one in tech com pany boardroom s is discussing the dam age AI can do, and that is exactly why the
U.S. Governm ent should not entertain the utopian propaganda of AI's advocates.
I have very little faith that this governm ent will m ake a decision to protect the long-term  health of the nation, including that of the
unaccountable oligarchs that now hold it in a stranglehold, but on this issue I felt a need to m ake m y voice heard.
Exem pting AI tech com panies from  copyright will kill people. Worse than that it will kill any trust in authority, and risks crushing our
nation's soul.


