PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2ae2-cakj
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8140
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I am  here to rally against copyright exem ptions for Generative AI. There are several reasons:
The works are stolen: The m odels base their output on the works of artists of all m edium s (visual, literary, m usical, etc.) who did not
consent to it. Som etim es it recreates a near identical piece of work to the artist's original. What would norm ally involve paying an artist for
their work instead goes to a corporation selling that work they stole.
AI art is explicitly a way to bypass paying artists for work they did: Generative AI com panies are arguing in court that they shouldn't have
to pay copyrights/royalties to the artists their m odels trained on because it would m ean that their com panies would be unprofitable. In
other words, nearly all the m odels can not function if they pay artists for the work they used. Which is exploitation. Training random
internet im ages is also m aking people pay m oney for art that was supposed to be free and credited to the artist. Only open source m odels
trained on explicitly public dom ain works, or m odels trained on art that they paid the laborers for, would be ethical. Both are few and far
between.
AI art destroys artists' lives: I know m any artists, who m ake a living on producing original pieces for custom ers. Unfettered AI has put
m any of their livelihoods in jeopardy. Som e have quit art all together, m any others have had severe m ental health crises. What m essage
does giving an exem ption give Am erican artists? Our painters? Designers? Musicians? Digital artists? Our Authors? "Your labor should be
free; you do not deserve pay; your hard work, talent, nuance, connection, and perspective are m eaningless and replaceable". It's a losing
m essage. 
We lose global presence and prestige: m uch of our global soft power com es from  having abundant varieties of art. AI art doesn't create, it
rehashes. Who will look at Am erican art if what we have to offer is flooded with waste that no one cares about? Will Am erica seem
cutting edge when all it can do is give its citizens and the world the sam e reheated dish? Will they support an Am erica willing to sacrifice
som e of its best exem plars so that a few tech com panies that are largely disliked around the world m ake a couple bucks? This is an
abdication of presence on a global scale. 
AI doesn't create, it regurgitates, and we lose our edge: AI m akes "art" from  the ground up pieces of hum an artist works. But it m akes
nothing new; it can't. it can only work off of styles and ideas of what cam e before. It's just pattern recognition of what's *already* been
innovated. If we the Am erican people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big Tech giants, what will
be the incentive to create? If everyday Am ericans create a new innovative piece of com puter code, a new visual design, or a new piece of
m usic only to have it im m ediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How could Am ericans possibly
m ake a living doing these things? They can't. Why would we as a country sacrifice our ability to innovate? That's one of our strongest
Am erican assets! Our innovations are vital to our econom y, in art included. 
Want to protect Am erican innovation? Protect Am erican creators. Do not create new copyright exem ptions that allow Big Tech
com panies to exploit and steal from  creators and everyday Am ericans without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency.
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech com panies, but rather on ensuring a fair
m arketplace with com petition:
First, the governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, so that we can decide when and where
our work is used by AI system s.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is
preserved. Their work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just
Big Tech.


Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their
training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
I am  not anti-technology or anti-AI. They are very useful in certain applications and we should put our efforts there. But we should not
sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Am ericans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to com m ent on these im portant issues.


