PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-z569-j5un
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5557
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Kyle Montgom ery  
General Comment
This is an attem pt to legalize theft for the benefit of the rich, once again. To say that AI should be given broad im m unity to Lawsuits for this
theft is akin to saying that I should not be held responsible for stealing decorations off of people's yards. The artwork and Media put out
by artists was not put out as free to use com m ercially. It was shared to be viewed, not taken, in the sam e way that m y neighbors put
gardens, or lights or decorations in the yard. Them  being publicly viewable does NOT m ean the viewer is the owner.
Am erica does not Need to stay "On top of AI". Generative AI destroys jobs, creates lower quality products, and does not save m oney
for the consum er. It's benefits for hum anity have all been lies m ade to sell a product. It bleeds m oney for the very com panies who work in
the tech space, and has proven itself to be one long case of fraud that can only prop itself up on the work stolen from  artists. People
worldwide have shown a disinterest in AI. It's only reason for existing is that the people on top of it's business m odel are able to
continually m anipulate investors into a prom ise for a return next tim e. A return that never com es. 
If this technology was being used to recreate m ovies by Disney, Param ount, or Warner Brothers, you'd not even be pushing for this. You
have proven that you're only okay with pushing this into law because you are okay stealing from  your citizens, for the falsely prom ised
profit of larger corporations. This is only com ing this far because you don't see the hard work of Am erican artists, authors, and actors as
valuable. You don't see the average Am erican as valuable.
Also, if a com pany cannot survive without stealing, and having that theft protected by the governm ent, then the com pany clearly does not
deserve to exist.


