PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-ykkj-d868
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5116
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Alex Lawson
Em ail:  
General Comment
This proposal claim s that we need to unburden "AI" (a vague term  referring to a broad range of technologies) in order to "prom ote hum an
flourishing, econom ic com petitiveness, and national security." As a longtim e professional with a career in creative technology, I can clearly
see how this proposal would not only fail to achieve those goals, but do m assive and irreparable dam age to Am erica in all of those areas.
These technologies are already flush with funding from  m any of the largest com panies and investors in the US and abroad. They are not
particularly burdened by any special regulations. They fill the booths at CES (the prim ary consum er electronics trade show) and the ad
spots at the Super Bowl. Despite all of this they are deeply unprofitable, not widely adopted by consum ers, and have little dem onstrable
use for governm ents.
Proponents of these technologies m ake wild claim s about their future capabilities, but those capabilities have not m aterialized and there's
no indication that they will. Even if they do, we should require that projects actually dem onstrate these capabilities before we m ake
sweeping legal changes to support them .
If we rem ove the "burdensom e requirem ents" of foundational concepts like copyright and intellectual property from  these com panies, they
will no doubt profit in the short term  - as any thief will profit from  a windfall of stolen goods. When the governm ent protects thieves they
declare that there is no value in creation, in innovation. It would destroy vast sectors of Am erican industry without providing any lasting
value. Those real, productive creative industries WILL grow elsewhere without us - leaving us uncom petitive, insecure and destitute.


