PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1ghi-0s3v
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7753
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
AI


March 15, 2025
From:
JDB
Media critic
Re: National Science F oundation ’s Request for Information on the D evelopment of a n Artificial 
Intelligence (A I) Action Plan
I am an everyda y American who has done m edia criticism and writing for a decade. I have worked hard 
for years to develop my skills and knowledge a nd I take pri de in my work.
The AI systems made by Bi g Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google t hreaten to destroy 
thousands of American artists and writers like m yself with their recent demand to create s pecial carve 
outs in copyright law.
AI systems can only be produc ed by first training on work made by people. My unique w ork, and the 
work of hundreds of thousands of other everyda y American creators was taken and fed into these AI 
systems without our consent or any compensati on. They ingest our work, reassemble it, and then sell it 
back to potential clients – directly competing with us and cutting us out of the marketplace.
Now these Bi g Tech companies are asking this administration to create e xceptions and loopholes to 
make t his practice of steali ng American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent . They are 
suggesting that if a m achine i ngests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow suddenly “fair 
use”. 
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should 
be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to rewrite the law in 
this way, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the oppos ite effect . The purpos e of American copyright law is to protect the 
incentive t o create a nd innovate. 
If we t he American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online w ill be stolen by Big 
Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new innovative piece 
of computer code, a ne w visual design, or a ne w piece of music only to have i t immediately stolen by 
Google a nd Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly make a living 
doing these t hings?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday Americans 
without permission, compensation, or transparency .
This administration ’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fa ir marketplace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective consent, so 
that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.


Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the incentive to 
create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic value, so the value generated 
by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, requiring them to 
disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology, quite the opposite, I’ve been an avid user of computers and the internet since 
1997. I’ll even grant that AI has uses for scientific purposes. But we should not sacrifice the hard work 
of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


