PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-6279-18p0
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1775
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Neil Turkew itz 
General Comment
I have been involved in addressing the intersection of technology and the arts for nearly four decades, and have served as an advisor on
intellectual property & trade to various Adm inistrations as a m em ber, and Vice-Chairm an, of ITAC-15. It is no exaggeration to observe
that this country, and its creative com m unity in particular, has never faced as dire and existential threat as that posed by generative AI. It is
a m atter of absolute necessity that we stop the present m isappropriation of creative works to train AI m odels, and ensure that uses of
creative works to train AI only take place where & when AI com panies have obtained the express consent of creators. Generative AI
threatens to engulf the creative com m unity and to drive original creation into extinction. While there m ight be som e short term  econom ic
gains for AI com panies, this would be a terrible loss for our country as a whole. We should not be sacrificing our future for m inim al gains
in the present, and we m ust reject the notion that the erosion of consent & free will is som ehow m andated by the needs of a digital world.
Indeed, what is the point of building a new digital world if it is hostile to the flourishing of hum anity? If it elim inates the things that bring us
joy? If it replaces the original with the derivative?
I urge you to reject calls for you to interfere with the rights of creators, and to instead redouble your efforts to ensure the effective
protection of creators. To stand against the unauthorized exploitation of creators which, in the words of AI com panies, m asquerades as
Progress & Innovation. That’s not the kind of innovation that serves Am erica’s interests.


