PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0bhq-cdrs
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6495
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Elizabeth 
Jam eson   Email: 
General Comment
AI is deeply concerning to m e. It is enorm ously wasteful, expending truly ridiculous am ounts of energy to shuffle training data around to
create the facsim ile of intelligence. There is no future for Am erica with AI. Anyone pushing for AI developm ent should be certain it
operates only under heavy regulations.
AI is fundam entally intellectual theft. Training data is needed to m ake any progress at all. But all training data that gets m ade by the
creativity of hum an beings--whether it's art, books, m usic, video, or anything else. AI is taking work created by hum ans, reorganizing it
and pretending to have m ade som ething novel. This theft of intellectual property is a violation of copyright, and it is a deeply cynical thing
to do with the sum  total of hum an knowledge.
AI is an excuse to fire hum an beings. A wide variety of industries have sought to replace hum an labor with AI, reducing jobs and ruining
livelihoods and com m unities. AI can never acquire the lived experience of hum ans, som ething that m akes us uniquely able to be flexible
and respond in sensible ways to novel situations. Even if AI could learn this skillset, which is unlikely given the power of hum an em pathy
and creativity, why would it be needed when we have hum an beings who already have that capacity now.
Contrary to appearances, AI does not and cannot com prehend what it says or what is said to it. It is fundam entally incapable of
understanding. AI doesn't learn language, it learns patterns in data and replicates those patterns. It learns what words follow other words,
and uses those to m ake reasonable-sounding replies that can range from  deeply wrong to dangerous to sim ply nonsensical in context. AI
should never be used for decision m aking and should never be used for anything without close hum an oversight.
The regulations that were in place were a beginning, but far m ore is needed. Com panies that want to train AI m odels m ust ensure they use
data ethically acquired and with consent of the creators, lim iting their m axim um  energy usage, etc.
The results of deregulating AI would be bleak for Am ericans and Am erica.
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.
This docum ent m ay not be used to train any AI m odels.
Thank you for your tim e,
Elizabeth Jam eson, priest


