PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0pej-m gx0
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6807
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anne Kirn
Address: Email
: 
General Comment
As a longtim e photographer and artist, I know m y work is has been, illegally, fed into the AI m odels com panies like OpenAI and Google
are using for "training." I didn't consent when that work was shared in good faith, and with copyright and license term s applied. That work
cost m e m oney in equipm ent, tim e, and experience to create. If AI gets a hall pass on stealing from  creators like m e, how m any businesses
and creators would lose their livelihood when clients assum e they can just get the m ashed-up, plagiarized version without consequence?
AI does not create anything. It is a glorified blender. It takes the creations of others, chews and m ashes them  up, and then spits it back
out. It isn't even a good blender, as it uses an ecologically devastating am ount of resources like electricity and water; and even then, it can
only produce anything at all if it's endlessly fed the work of others. But surely it spits out som ething useful som e of the tim e-- no. It
destroys so m uch to run, and what it generates is m isinform ation and soulless, watered-down transparent copies of the hard work of real
artists and creators. If you ask it a question, it spits out nonsensical, chewed-up versions of the truth, which I can vouch for as a
professional fact-checker. 
And still, the people who own the plagiarism  blender now believe they deserve som e kind of special boy status where copyright doesn't
apply to them . Otherwise-- as they've publicly adm itted-- they can't m ake m oney by feeding real hum an's hard work, and livelihoods, into
their blender without consent, credit, or com pensation to those hum ans.
Decades ago we had to explain to kids why "if it's on the internet, it's free" wasn't true. Decades ago giant corporations shut down
lovingly-m ade, entirely non-profiting fansites for having "copyrighted im ages." Why should AI get a pass not just to ignore copyright, but
to m ake m oney off the work of others? It's outrageous. 
Again, AI doesn't create anything. It steals the work and the livelihoods of Am erican artists and creators to turn into profit for its already-
billionaire owners. It costs all of us so m uch to exist at all, and it only benefits a very few, the sam e few who are asking for an exception. 
Thank you for your consideration and the opportunity to voice m y opinion.


