PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-wgag-m e0j
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3888
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Rachel Heffley
General Comment
"AI" as it exists in the form  of Language Learning Models (LLM) and im age generation is not good for the Am erican people. It is being
pushed by a handful of corporations who believe, in their greed, that AI will m ake it so they will never have to pay writers, artists, or
experts of any kind ever again. They fully believe they can take intellectual property, churn it through their m achines, and we will buy it
back from  them  with a sm ile, despite the fact that overwhelm ingly, AI-generated texts and im ages have been ill-received by the m ajority of
Am ericans at best, and are alarm ingly m isleading or outright harm ful at worst. 
They wish to harm  the Am erican people thrice: first, by stealing existing works with no perm ission and no com pensation, and laying off the
very people who produced that work to replace them  with m achines. Second, by having these m achines working 24/7, producing ad-
nauseam  like a m illion m onkeys on typewriters, guzzling water and polluting our electrical infrastructure, we would be faced with water
restrictions and rolling blackouts just to m aintain them . Last, they insult the Am erican public and the world at large by thinking the slop
produced by churning up their stolen m aterial would be 'good enough' that we would be willing to pay for it - PAY for things that THEY
could not be bothered to pay for in the first place.
Technology should serve hum anity, not the other way around. I would challenge the proponents of m ass adoption of "AI" to answer what
good it does hum anity. Why should we want this? How does it help us?
The fact that m any com panies are already backing off on AI after it has becom e clear that, in its current form , it has no use that cannot be
done faster, better, and cleaner by som ething else, is telling. It is a gim m ick, at best, and not one that should cost people their jobs or
rights. We should not be looking to bend our entire concept of intellectual property, let alone our electrical infrastructure, to prop up an
industry already in collapse.
No one wants AI except the people selling it.


