PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0pm r-q4l9
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7095
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
See attached file(s). As a general sum m ary, for reasons laid out in attached files, I very strongly oppose any attem pt to carve out special
exceptions in copyright law for the use of training generative m odel system s(AI).
Attachments
White House AI Action Plan Com m ent Letter


March 14, 2025 
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
I am a technologist who works on large scale software systems. I know many creatives, often 
writers, game designers, artists, and others in the general field. The current generative systems 
are a huge threat to their industries, and their existing work which has been stolen without 
compensation. 
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google 
threaten to destroy thousands of American small businesses with their recent demand to 
create special carve outs in copyright law. 
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work made by people. Unique work, 
and the work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators was taken and fed 
into these AI systems without consent or any compensation.  
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. 
They are suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow 
suddenly “fair use”.  
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to 
rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation. 
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to 
protect the incentive to create and innovate.  
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen 
by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new 
innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it 
immediately stolen, why bother creating it in the first place? 
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and 
everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency. 
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition: 
●First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent, so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.


 
● Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that 
the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. This work has immense 
economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original 
creators, not just Big Tech.  
● Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, 
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what 
content is AI generated.  
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I work with these systems on a daily basis, and I am required 
to understand how they function, and how to incorporate them for business process 
improvements. But sacrificing the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans to give a 
small cartel of private companies a stolen monopoly on generative tech will destroy more than it 
can ever create.  
 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues. 


