PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-gpf7-9jzq
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1586
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
Hello, 
I am  an artist that has been posting online for m any years, and while I have yet to fully sell m y artwork on the web, I find the proposals
m ade by big tech com panies to bypass copyright laws to train their data m odels to be very concerning. 
For the past three years, I have seen m any of m y peer’s works be plagiarized and stolen through people training their works through AI
m odels. Many of m y peers rely on their work to m ake a living and the im ages that are generated from  these AI m odels are cutting into
that. Along with that, m any artists are not com pensated for their creations being used in these m odels and can’t really do m uch to get the
m odels to take their works down from  the AI m odels. I understand that it’s hard to delete what’s already been trained in the m odel, but
com panies that are creating AI m odels are not taking into account the hum an aspect of creating and are pushing people away from
creating art. 
Instead of giving com panies full control over individuals data, I suggest focusing m ore on m aking stronger copyright laws that will benefit
individual creators and give them  better resources on fighting copyright infringem ents of their content. One of the biggest problem s artists
face when confronting AI com panies using their work is finding legal council that will help them  fight their cases. There have been group
lawsuits in the past, but that hasn’t stopped AI com panies from  continuing their practices of stealing people’s data. 
Another thing I would suggest focusing on is m aking stronger privacy laws, and m ake it national. For too long, big com panies have been
selling our citizens data for m assive profits to data brokers and tim e and tim e again this has lead to m any data breaches. I worry that with
all this data AI com panies are collecting, how long will it take for a group of hackers to get that data and m ake it public? 
I hope this com m ent m akes sense, and please really consider this before giving big tech com panies control over us. 
Thank you.


