PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zn62-hal6
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5991
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Liam Flanagan  
 Email: 
General Comment
The "unnecessarily burdensom e requirem ents" m entioned in the quote "to ensure that unnecessarily burdensom e requirem ents do not
ham per private sector AI innovation" are copyright laws. I have a great searing desire to use a plethora of curses at how im m ensely
ignorant that phrasing is in the context of the very functioning of our way of life and to the fair application of the law to all parties within our
nation, but instead, I'll sim ply write it in plain English. No. It is not ok in the slightest, for any organizations, especially private sector
organizations, to use copyrighted m aterials unfettered when the rest of us are required to adhere to copyright laws. There is absolutely no
way that could be interpreted as anything except corruption of the governm ent. For one party to be excused from  the law itself, a law that
has historically bound us as the people of the United States of Am erica to a standard of respect towards the ownership of our respective
ideas, is to break down the legal and m oral fabric of our country to that of different laws for different effective castes of society. This is the
form ation of untouchables who can steal *your* or a loved one's ideas whose AI/s would then be used to replace *your* or a loved one's
job, put *you* or a loved one out onto the streets, and ultim ately to enrich them selves on YOUR or a loved one's hard work without any
way to fight back against them . The AMERICAN DREAM will die forever with this executive order. Also, just to m ake it even clearer, it
is UNCONSTITUTIONAL.


