PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-tvrs-32lx
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3314
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Anonymous Anonymous 
General Comment
Ai is theft of copyrighted m aterials and negatively im pacts the livelihoods of the people it has stolen from . Individuals should have the sam e
copyright protection that big com panies like Disney receive for their copyright. If I can't take m ickey m ouse and do what I want with him ,
AI com panies should also not be allowed to take m y and other artists' copyrighted m aterials to do with as they please, especially for
profit. Please do not allow AI com panies to steal from  artists for their own profit or fun. AI exists to replace artists and steal their jobs and
their works. It is not fair use or transform ative because a m achine can not add any of their own experience or self into the 'new' art, which
is really just an am algam ation of copyrighted m aterial rather than som ething actually new. It sim ply regurgitates what it has been trained on
and there is a risk of it outputting copyrighted ideas or im ages that are nearly identical to the work it has been trained on. It does not learn
or create like a person who adds their own experiences into the transform ative art. AI has no place com peting in the m arket with artists
whose copyrighted m aterial it uses, either. A hum an that takes a few days to com plete a work at best can not com pete fairly with a
m achine that can output im ages and m aterial instantly. It is unfair to allow a m achine to use copyrighted m aterial to com pete in the sam e
m arket as the people whose copyrighted m aterial it is using when the hum ans have no hope of being able to com pete with them . 
AI should be required to 
A) delete training data that uses copyrighted m aterial that they did not gain im plicit consent for
B) Be required to obtain explicit consent for future training data via an OPT IN, not an OPT OUT system . An OPT OUT system  allows
them  to train on data of artists who for one reason or another are unable to opt out, whether because they no longer have access to the
account, or they have passed away, etc. it shoudl NOT be default that they are allowed to use it unless you say no.
C) They should have to com pensate the artists that they have already m ade a profit off and required to com pensate artists in the future if
they are using their m aterials via the opt in system .
D) There needs to be a waterm ark necessity for m aterials that are AI generated showing that they are AI generated as a disclaim er to
stop the spread of potential m is and dis inform ation.


