PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-ong8-49nt
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2623
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Jonathan Cissel
Address: 
General Comment
Artificial intelligence requires regulation. It's sim ply a truth, as m ost hum an com m odities and products also require regulation, but it rings
especially true for artificial intelligence, as very few other hum an creations have the sam e am ount of powers, risks, and im plications.
To preface, artificial intelligence (henceforth abbrieviated to "AI"), particularly "generative" AI capable of producing text, im age, and
sound data based on prom pts, requires training on sim ilar data first. The exact source of training data tends to vary depending on the exact
purpose of a particular AI, but the sets of training data used will often be com prised of anywhere from  thousands to m illions of entries.
The m ethods and contexts of collecting training data is a serious issue, and m ust be taken seriously. It is com m on for generative AI to be
trained on inform ation collected from  m illions of people as scraped on the internet. While there is a whole rights issue that is worth
discussion about the use of the work of sm all-tim e creators, I would like to highlight som ething else with this com m ent:
The scraping of the internet for training inform ation will alm ost inevitably capture the copyrighted works of large com panies such as
Disney, Com cast, Warner Brothers, and others.
By nature of the internet, copyrighted m aterial will appear on it, whether officially (as posted by the com panies them selves), or unofficially
(as posted by individuals). An AI scraping the internet for training data is, given enough tim e, certain to inadvertently collect the
copyrighted works of large com panies that would likely prefer to retain control over their properties.
Allowing AI unrestricted access to copyrighted m aterials would be liable to dam age the business of these m ajor m edia com panies, which
are im portant for the Am erican econom y as m ajor cultural touchstones, particularly as allowing AI access to copyrighted m aterial for
som e com panies sets a precedent for others to claim  fair use of copyrighted m aterial under the notion of AI use.
I believe that AI should NOT be allowed unrestricted access to copyrighted m aterial, as this m ay lead to the deconstruction of the
concept of copyright as a whole. Rather, I believe that all AI should be subject to regulation that requires them  to source their training data
with express legal perm ission from  the copyright holder. Regulation of AI in this way gives Am erica the precedent to retain control of its
assets, helping to restrict the influence of m alicious actors that don't align with Am erican interests


