PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-pje4-81ie
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2720
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Sam uel Burghoffer
General Comment
As one of the Am ericans assaulted by "Generative AI" (Gen AI, going forward) over the past three years, I am  deeply opposed to any
plan that further em power the "industry".
Plainly, given that Gen AI constantly seeks to directly com pete with the sam e hum an craftfolks whose crafts it wishes to train on, it would
be disastrous to copyright to allow Gen AI to train on all m aterials indiscrim inately. Copyright is to protect creators' incentive by
discouraging com petitors from  sim ply stealing their work - if you allow Gen AI, which does not create but sim ply repackages what it has
been trained on, to breach all copyright law, then you are hurting Am erican workers and industries in creative fields by taking away their
protection and incentive.
Proponents argue that without this breach of proper business protections, US Gen AI com panies will fall behind China - to which I would
respond that this isn't a concern. The current Gen AI technology has been nothing but a scourge forced upon the Am erican public so far.
While som e AI technology has been beneficial to som e fields, Gen AI has shown no valid use. Am ericans are, by in large, so critical of the
technology that adding it has hurt sales for various com panies. The propositions for it are unenticing at best, catastrophic at worst; the
technology continues at this tim e to be extrem ely inefficient (and increasingly so with each new generation) and has em barrassingly low
efficacy. So far, advocates for Gen AI have failed to prove that this is a technology worth preserving, let alone considering an
"advancem ent".
Our tim e and energy would be m uch better spent protecting Am erican workers from  Gen AI, not the other way around.


