PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-39gu-aubn
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8948
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Erick Ball 
General Comment
The im m inent developm ent of advanced AI is both an unprecedented opportunity for the US econom y and an existential threat to our
national security. As such, the adm inistration's strategy of AI dom inance m ust both prom ote and defend Am erican AI technology. The
nation and the industry has been generally focused on com m ercial applications, but Am erica's prim ary interests in AI also include its
im plications for intelligence and warfighting. Therefore,
1. The US m ust act to protect Am erican AI technology from  theft by foreign actors. The m ost advanced AI in the world is being
developed by US com panies, but those com panies do not have the resources or expertise to prevent foreign spies or hackers from
obtaining the key m ethods, techniques, and m odel weights that would proliferate those capabilities to our adversaries. The US governm ent
should acquire an intim ate awareness of the m ost advanced projects and create an um brella of defensive counterintelligence m easures
around and within them .
2. In order to m aintain com petitive capabilities, the US governm ent m ust develop greater internal expertise in the advancem ent and use of
frontier AI technologies. Although governm ent projects are unlikely to be com petitive with the m ost advanced parts of private industry, a
large-scale effort to create sovereign Am erican AI would bring critical understanding that will undoubtedly be needed in the em ergent
circum stances of the next several years.
3. We m ust, over the next 1-3 years, deeply reconsider the wisdom  of releasing frontier AI source code and m odel weights created at
m assive expense by Am erican com panies to the rest of the world. This choice has so far served m ainly to proliferate AI expertise to
independent or governm ent-backed actors in China, underm ining our efforts at AI dom inance and the controls already in place on
sem iconductor hardware.


