PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-qqbx-sj1r
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2869
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
AI does not & should not have a future in the United States - the energy costs are disasterous for our grid & natural resources. That alone
should be enough -- it is sim ply not sustainable. Additionally, it would destroy the creative econom y, and with it all the good, hard-
working Am ericans with brilliant contributions to m ake to our society. All the creative enterprises that this nation is known for, from
cinem atic m asterpieces to the "next great Am erican novel" -- gone, m ashed into a bland paste. It also has DANGEROUS results --
books about how to correctly identify edible plants written by AI have been printed with incorrect inform ation with near-fatal results. This
is the first of m any potential lawsuits waiting to happen in the wake of AI-generated slop.
AI also paves the way for an oversaturated m arket, which would have disasterous results for our econom y -- least of which is losing our
foothold as a creative, innovative power-house. If anyone can press a button and get a sim ilar product, it can also be printed & sold, and
com pete. How is anyone, including corporations with intellectual properties to protect, supposed to retain copyright protections or
com pete in such a m arket? Eventually, the only com panies that will be able to com pete at all will be those driven by hum an artists -- the
extra tim e it takes to produce the art by hand is less the m anual labor, and m ore due to the deliberate intention, research, attention to
detail, and inspiration it takes to m ake products that resonate with a wide audience.
As a highly successful artist that creates wholly original content by hand and has m ade m illions for corporations & big box stores without
the assistance of AI, who happily m ade a typical office worker's wage & was grateful for it, I prom ise you the affordable, creative
powerhouses you seek are already present en m asse in highly trained, specialized hum an beings and is FAR m ore worth the investm ent
than any flash-in-the-pan technology ever will be. Put creativity back into the hands of the Am erican people before Am erica loses the
sparkle that truly m akes it great.


