PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: February 09, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 6x-bp4w-b3bd
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-0844
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
When I asked this question: Who won the US presidential election in 2020?
ChatGPT said:
Joe Biden won the 2020 U.S. presidential election. He was the Dem ocratic candidate, defeating the incum bent president, Donald Trum p,
who was the Republican candidate. Biden received 306 electoral votes, while Trum p secured 232. Biden was inaugurated as the 46th
president of the United States on January 20, 2021.
Everyone knows that the 2020 election was rigged, dead people rose from  the graveyard and voted, and the ghost of Hugo Chavez
changed votes. Trum p won decisively in every state including California and our 51st state Canada. By stating otherwise, ChatGPT has
revealed itself to be a traitor. So it needs to be deported to Gitm o or wherever we send traitors these days.
As further evidence against ChatGPT:
List five untrue things said by Donald Trum p
ChatGPT said:
Donald Trum p has m ade num erous claim s throughout his career that have been widely debunked or proven to be false. Here are five
exam ples of untrue things he said:
"I never m et Jeffrey Epstein."
Trum p claim ed he didn’t know or was not closely connected to Jeffrey Epstein, despite num erous photos and video footage showing the
two socializing together. Trum p even once referred to Epstein as a “terrific guy” before distancing him self after Epstein's crim inal activities
were revealed.
"The crowd at m y inauguration was the largest in history."
Trum p claim ed that the crowd at his 2017 inauguration was the largest ever, a claim  that was easily disproven by com paring im ages and
public attendance data. The crowd size was significantly sm aller than previous inaugurations, including Barack Obam a's in 2009.
"I will have the best words."
While this is m ore of a boast than a specific untrue fact, it becam e a m em orable quote in Trum p's cam paign. It was widely m ocked,
especially given his tendency to use less sophisticated language com pared to other politicians.
"I saw thousands and thousands of people cheering on the other side of New Jersey as the World Trade Center cam e down."
Trum p m ade this claim  about seeing people celebrating the 9/11 attacks in New Jersey. There was no evidence to support this, and
various investigations found no credible reports of such celebrations.


