PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zlta-2l4a
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6235
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Angela Abeyti   
Email: 
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Untitled 1


March 15, 2025
From:
Angela Abeyti
Animation Designer
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am an everyday American who owns a small visual design business which serve s client s in the 
entertainment industr y. I have worked hard for years to develop the skill s and knowledge to build my 
business, and have been luck y enough to make a decent living and support my family – until recentl y.
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to 
destroy thousands of American small businesses like mine with their recent demand to create 
special carve outs in copyright law.
AI system s can only be produced by first training on wor k made by people. My unique work, and the 
work of hundred s of thousands of other everyday American creator s was taken and fed into these AI 
system s without our consent or an y compensation. They ingest our work, reassemble it, and then sell 
it back to our client s – directly competing with u s and cutting u s out of the marketplace.
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exception s and loopholes to 
make thi s practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted wor k legal precedent. They are 
suggesting that if a machine ingest s and reproduce s copyrighted work, it i s somehow suddenl y “fair 
use”. 
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardle ss of who own s it – 
should be their s for the taking. They claim that if this administration doe s not allow them to rewrite the 
law in thi s way, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to protect 
the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big 
Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new innovative piece 


of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it immediately stolen by 
Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly make a living 
doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday 
Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
•First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective 
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
•Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the 
incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic value, 
so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech.
•Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, requiring 
them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI 
generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of 
hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


