PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-z64r-ytdl
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5579
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Chri Adonia
Em ail:  
General Comment
Not only is this directive harm ful, but underm ines the concept that, we as a hum anity, cannot create harm . These algorithm ic system s are
developed upon the words and m indsets set forth by m ankind. Our good, our bad, our ugly are all there, yet you people think prom ptly
deregulating som ething that has not only proven itself to be flawed, but actively som ething we have little knowledge of the consequences
for, is not only appalling, but deadly. This will inevitably lead to self driving cars, uncensored chat bots, robots (in the rare case we DO
m anage to get sentience from  robotics,) and so m uch m ore not being punished, including the corporations that form ulated their existence.
This is all to give com panies a pass to allow them  to do as they please without regard for how hum anity m ay be im pacted, because the
ones running the show, aren't the ones who WILL be im pacted in a negative m anner. I am  sick and tired of watching people actively m ake
these decisions as if they weren't going to spell out our end in the near future. Whether it is robotics, AI, the lack of care for the clim ate, or
even the basic conceptualization of how to properly and distinctively enforce laws to get a result that doesn't punish rather reeducate
people, it doesn't m atter. It is all the sam e to those people.
It's all the sam e from  the people who put out these notions and ideas. I can assure you, even if you aren't aware of the red stains that will
be on your hands if you don't lim it and regulate AI and its subsequent successors, it will lead to grave consequences later down the road.
Sooner or later, that red stain on your hands will be your blood m ixed around the rest of ours for death has no bias. We as a species are
losing m ore and m ore of what m ake us hum an. As robots becom e m ore com plex, we will reach a tipping point of the uncanny valley that
we will be trapped within. Art being one of the biggest com ponents of that and yet you allow that to rem ain without proper copyright
enforcem ent because why? For a quick buck? Because you dislike the basis of accessibility that m ankind has for this form  of expression?
This is inevitably the last line of defense before there is no going back and I want each and every person who reads or hears this to
understand that the choice prom ptly put forth on this topic will forever alter the course of our future. AI should be relegated with a list of
rulesets to follow for the treatm ent of data, creative and derivate works, as well as the functions that a robot can perform . Failure to do
this will be the equation of writing our own warrant. AI is not a necessity, rather a desire. A desire that, as with m ost things, can and will
pass the lim it of too m uch of one good thing. And when in the future this entire warning gets ignored and you have AI in your shoes as well
as your phone, fridge, and toaster, let m e be clear. Som eone will always be watching, and you will NEVER know the m eaning of
loneliness.
Choose wisely.


