PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-i5er-t316
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1622
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Connected Health Initiative
General Comment
See attached for com m ents of the Connected Health Initiative.
Attachments
CHI Com m ent re AI Action Plan (14 Mar 2025)


1 
March 14 , 202 5 
Faisal D'Souza  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development  
National Coordination Office  
National Science Foundation  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, V irginia  22314  
RE: Comments of the C onnected Health Initiative , Request for Information on the 
Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  (90 FR 9088 ) 
Dear Mr. D'Souza : 
The Connected Health Initiative  (CHI ) appreciates the opportunity to submit views to the 
National Science Foundation’s Networking and Information Technology Research and 
Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO) in response to its request for 
information  on behalf of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP)  to inform  the 
development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan.1 CHI  is committed to 
accomplishing policy actions needed to sustain and enhance America's AI dominance, 
and to ensure that unnecessarily burdensome requirements do not hamper private sector 
AI innovation . 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be  
reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents 
without attribution.  
I. About the Connected Health Initia tive and State ment of Interest
CHI is the leading multistakeholder policy and legal advocacy effort dedicated to 
connected health technologies that improve health outcomes and reduce costs. We seek 
to advance responsible pro -digital health policies and laws in areas including 
reimbursem ent/payment, privacy/security, effectiveness/quality assurance, U.S. Food and 
1 NSF, Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan , 90 FR 9088  
(2025), available at: https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/02/06/2025 -02305/request -for-
information -on-the-development -of-an-artificial -intelligence -ai-action -plan .  


2 Drug Administration (FDA) regulation of digital health, health data interoperability, and the 
rising role of artificial/augmented intelligence (AI) in care delivery.  
For more information, see www.connectedhi.com . 
II. Artificial Intelligence and its Vital Role in Advancing the Quadruple Aim in
Healthca re
Today, there are already many examples of AI systems, powered by streams of data and 
advanced algorithms, improving healthcare by preventing hospitalizations, reducing 
complications, decreasing administrative burdens, and improving patient engagement. AI 
offers the promise to rapidly accelerate and scale such results and drive a fundamental 
transformation of the current disease -based system to one that supports prevention and 
health maintenance.  For example, AI -driven digital therapeutics that deliver clinic ally-
backed interventions to treat patients where they are , saving the patient, provider and 
others throughout the healthcare value chain immense time and expense.  
The CHI finds that o ne of the most helpful ways to see the value of AI in healthcare is to 
view the proposition  through the lens of the “ quadruple aim” framework. Built on the 
Institute for Healthcare Improvement’s “triple aim,”2 a widely accepted compass to 
optimize health system performance,3 the quadruple aim focuses on four key areas where 
health systems need to be improved and acknowledges concerns of key stakeholders. The 
four areas are  (1) e nhancing population health ; (2) i mproving patient experience, 
satisfaction, and health outcomes ; (3) b etter clinician and healthcare team experience and 
satisfaction ; and (4) l owered overall costs of healthcare.  
Improving Population Health Management:  AI-enabled tools offer great promise 
in overcoming the challenges faced by clinicians, health systems, health plans, and 
public health officials working to advance population health management and 
public health. AI -enabled tools, for example, can  process massive and disparate 
data sources to provide public health officials, health care systems, and providers 
essential and actionable data rapidly related to assist with more timely and 
accurate population level disease surveillance and assessments of disparities and 
health care resource distribution.     
2 http://www.ihi.org/engage/initiatives/tripleaim/pages/default.aspx . 
3 Thomas Bodenheimer, MD and Christine Sinsky, MDFrom Triple to Quadruple Aim: Care of the Patient 
Requires Care of the Provider, Ann Fam Med November/December 2014 vol. 12 no. 6 573 -576.  


3 Population health4 management has long been viewed as the essential ingredient to 
improve overall health outcomes and arrest rising health  care costs. Population 
health management involves aggregation and analysis of huge amounts of data 
from divergent sources, something that can be potentially streamlined through 
robust and powerful AI systems.  AI-powered tools  can collect patient generated 
health data  and also deliver clinically -backed interventions  to treat patients where 
they are . 
As more systems are created and deployed, the opportunity for AI to help improve 
healthcare outcomes is significant, with estimates suggesting outcomes could be 
improved by 30 -40 percent.5 
Improving Patient Experience, Satisfaction, and Outcomes:  One of the more 
significant critiques of healthcare systems around the world is that they fail in many 
respects to meet patients’ expectations around access to care, ease of use, and 
care continuity and coordination.  
All too often, patients are forced to make multiple visits, shuffling between a 
general practitioner and a specialist. With the ability to replicate specialist -level 
expertise at the frontlines of care, AI -enabled tools will reduce paperwork burdens, 
cente r care around where the patient is located, and enhance the ability to manage 
and understand how to sustain health or manage a disease. Services that 
increasingly can be enhanced and improved with AI systems will provide patients 
and their health care team s with timely, essential information, and ongoing support 
that is not currently available.  
With people over the age of 65 representing an increasing percentage of the 
population, AI systems will be essential for human caregivers and clinicians to 
extend their reach and coverage of an ever -growing population of patients.  
Improving Clinician and Healthcare Team Experience and Satisfaction:  Among 
clinicians and the extended health care team, the growing administrative and 
paperwork demands coupled with compounding rates of new medical knowledge 
and data generation are driving records levels of burn -out and dissatisfaction. AI -
enabled tools  can and should be deployed to drastically improve clinician and 
4 Defined as “an approach [that] focuses on interrelated conditions and factors that influence the health of 
populations over the life course, identifies systematic variations in their patterns of occurrence, and applies 
the resulting knowledge to develop a nd implement policies and actions to improve the health and well -being 
of those populations.” Kindig, D. and Stoddart, G. What Is Population Health? American Journal of Public 
Health, 93, 380 -383 (2003).  
5 Nicole Lewis, Artificial Intelligence to play key role in population health, Medical Economics (2017) 
(available at http://www.medicaleconomics.com/medical -economics -blog/artificial -intelligence -play -key-
role -population -health ). 


4 healthcare team satisfaction using tools that help clinicians and the health care 
team to more quickly screen, diagnose, treat, and monitor effectively patients and 
remove time -consuming and often mundane tasks.  
Reducing Healthcare Costs:  The U.S.  struggle s with both rising costs of providing 
healthcare to citizens. The situation is unsustainable, and, in many countries, the 
problem will only get more acute as populations age and average life expectancy 
continues to rise. A huge amount of data is available today for collection and 
utilization in timely prevention and treatment decisions that would result in massive 
cost savings, but that data currently usable, but can be found in electronic health 
record (EHR) systems.  
CHI sees  enormous promise in AI to more accurately capture and leverage the 
range of health data available . This savings estimate includes only the top 10 AI 
scenarios, such as assisted surgery, virtual nursing assistants, and administrative 
workflow assistance, etc.  
Healthcare administrative costs (e.g., billing) are a continuing challenge. The 
administrative costs of the U. S. health care system are estimated to be 31 percent 
of total healthcare expenditures.6 AI’s potential to help us address spiraling costs in 
healthcare is very real, and it is already showing returns today.  
Each of the four d omains discussed above are already seeing the potential AI systems 
have to  positively impact the current healthcare system , which the AI Action Plan  should 
seek to aug ment . 
Further, CHI has worked with the broader community to develop, and strongly encourage 
the HHS strategy to align with, healthcare ecosystem -wide consensus recommendations 
on the use of AI in healthcare:  
•CHI’s Health AI Policy Principles , a comprehensive set of recommendations on the
areas that should be addressed by policymakers examining AI’s use in healthcare,
and how they should be addressed ( https://connectedhi.com/wp -
content/uploads/2022/02/Policy -Principles -for-AI.pdf );
•CHI’s Health AI Good Machine Learning Practices , a recommended pathway for the
FDA to ensure innovation in machine learning -enabled medical devices, including
for continuously learning algorithms, while protecting patient safety
(https://connectedhi.com/wp -
content/uploads/2022/04/CHIAITaskForceGMLPs.pdf );
•CHI’s Advancing Transparency for Artificial Intelligence in the Healthcare
Ecosystem , a proposal on ways to increase the transparency of and trust in health
6 http://www.pnhp.org/publications/nejmadmin.pdf .  


5 AI tools, particularly for care teams and patients ( https://connectedhi.com/wp -
content/uploads/2022/02/AdvancingTransparencyforArtificialIntelligenceintheHeal
thcareEcosystem.pdf ); and  
•CHI’s Health AI Roles & Interdependency Framework , which proposes clear
definitions of stakeholders across the healthcare AI value chain, from development
to distribution, deployment, and end use; and suggests roles for supporting safety,
ethical use, and fairness for each of these important stakeholder groups that are
intended to illuminate the interdependencies between these actors, thus advancing
the shared responsibility concept ( https://connectedhi.com/wp -
content/uploads/2025/03/CHI -Health -AI-Roles.pdf ).
III. Speci fic Input of the Connected Health Initiative on the Artificial Intelligence
Action Plan
We strongly encourage OSTP to align  its AI Action Plan  with CHI’s comprehensive AI policy 
principles : 
1.Harmonizing and Coordinating Approaches to AI
A wide range of federal, local, and state laws prohibit harmful conduct regardless of 
whether  the use of AI is involved. For example, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) 
Act prohibits unfair or deceptive acts or practices, and states also have versions of 
these prohibitions in their statute s. The use of AI does not shield companies from 
these prohibit ions . However, federal and state agencies alike must approach the 
applicability of these laws  in AI contexts thoughtfully and with great sensitivity to 
the novel or evolving risks AI systems  present. Congress and other policymakers 
must first understand how existing frameworks  apply to activities involving AI to 
avoid creating sweeping new authorities or agencies that  awkwardly or 
inconsistently overlap with current the AI Action Plan. 


6 2.Quality Assurance and Oversight
The AI Action Plan should utilize risk -based approaches to ensure that the use of AI 
aligns with  any relevant recognized standards of safety,  and  efficacy. All healthcare 
stakeholders  benefit from understanding the distribution of risk and liability in 
building, testing,  and using AI tools. To the extent, t he AI Action Plan address es 
liability , it should ensure the appropriate  distribution and mitigation of risk and 
liability. Specifically, those in the value chain with the  ability to minimize risks 
based on their knowledge and ability to mitigate should have  appropriate incentives 
to do so. Some recommended areas of focus include:  
•Ensuring AI is safe  and efficacious.
•Encouraging AI developers to consistently utilize rigorous procedures and
enabling them to document their methods and results.
•Encouraging those developing, offering, or testing AI systems intended for
consumer use to provide truthful and easy -to-understand representations
regarding intended use and risks that would be reasonably understood by
those intended, as well as expected, to use the AI solution.
The AI Action Plan should ensure that a gencies apply existing policies to the use of 
AI prior to advancing new policies to only fill existing gaps; foster a risk -based 
approach to recognize the diverse and heterogenous use cases for AI; and align to 
international standards —including ISO42001 li fe cycle quality management 
standard.  
CHI  also urges OSTP  to align with our recommendations on the roles and 
interdependencies in the AI value chain, which support the theme of a shared 
responsibility for safety and efficacy.7 In this framework, CHI  proposes clear 
definitions of stakeholders across the healthcare AI value chain, from development 
to distribution, deployment, and end use; discusses roles for supporting safety, 
ethical use, and fairness for each of these important stakeholder groups that  are 
intended to illuminate the interdependencies between these actors, thus advancing 
the shared responsibility concept.  
3.Thoughtful Design
The AI Action Plan should encourage design of AI systems that are informed by real -
world  workflows, human -centered design and usability principles, and end -user 
needs. AI systems  should facilitate a transition to changes in the delivery of goods 
and services that benefit consumers and businesses. The design, development, 
and success of AI should leverage collaboration and dialogue among users, AI 
7 This framework is accessible at: https://connectedhi.com/wp -content/uploads/2025/03/CHI -Health -AI-
Roles.pdf .  


7 technology developers, and other stakeholders to have all  perspectives reflected in 
AI solutions.  
4.Access , Infrastructure,  and Affordability
The AI Action Plan should enable products and services that involve AI systems to 
be accessible and affordable. Significant resources may be required to scale 
systems.  Policymakers should also ensure that developers can build accessibility 
features into their  AI-driven offerings and avoid policies that limit their accessibility 
options.  
The U.S. government should take proactive measures to strengthen American AI 
infrastructure to ensure access and affordability. The AI Action Plan should :  
•Provide f ederal agenc ies with g reater authority to site and permit interstate
transmission lines deemed critical to national interests. This includes
streamlining approvals and, if necessary, leveraging eminent domain.
•Prevent states from imposing regulations that disproportionately burden
data centers  that are critical for AI processing .
•Accelerate the development of domestic nuclear power, including small
modular reactors (SMRs), through streamlined regulations, tax incentives,
and loan guarantees. This will provide a stable, low -carbon power source for
data centers.
5.Data Bias
The errors in  data sets used for AI innovation  will remain one of the more pressing 
issues with  AI systems that utilize machine learning techniques in particular. 
Regulatory agencies should  examine data provenance and bias issues present in 
the development and uses of AI solutions  to ensure that bias in datasets does not 
result in harm to users or consumers of products or  services involving AI, including 
through unlawful discrimination.  
6.Research and Transparency
The AI Action Plan should support and facilitate research and development of AI by 
prioritizing  and providing sufficient funding while also maximizing innovators’ and 
researchers’ ability to  collect and process data from a wide range of sources. 
Research on the costs and benefits of  transparency in AI should also be a priority 
and involve collaboration among all affected  stakeholders to develop a better 
understanding of how and under which circumstances  transparency mandates 
would help address risks arising from the use of AI systems.  
We appreciate President Trump’s acknowledgment, in the January 23 Executive 
Order establishing the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, 


8 of the critical research and innovation enabled by initiatives such as the National 
Science Foundation’s National Artificial Intelligence Research Resource (NAIRR). 
Launched in 2024, NAIRR provides researchers with access to datasets, models, 
training, clo ud computing, and AI credits to drive groundbreaking advancements in 
AI applications across defense, healthcare, energy, and other sectors vital to U.S. 
competitiveness.  However, the technology developer -donated credits that support 
NAIRR will expire at t he end of the two -year pilot. While Congress has allocated 
some funding for the program’s administration, NAIRR’s continuation depends on 
congressional appropriations for researcher technology credits. The NAIRR Task 
Force—formed under the National AI Init iative Act of 2020, signed into law by 
President Trump —estimated that sustaining NAIRR requires $2.25 billion in federal 
appropriations over six years to ensure researchers have the resources needed to 
develop transformative AI solutions and address societ y’s most pressing 
challenges. The task force recommended congressional appropriations of $750 
million every two years, and we urge the Administration to incorporate this essential 
funding into future budget proposals to Congress.  
7.Modernized Privacy and Security Frameworks
The many new AI-driven uses for data, including sensitive personal information, 
raise privacy  questions. They also offer the potential for more powerful and granular 
privacy controls for  consumers. Accordingly, any policy framework should address 
the topics of privacy, consent,  and modern technological capabilities as a part of 
the policy development process. Requirements created pursuant to the AI Action 
Plan  must be scalable and assure that an individual’s data is properly protected, 
while  also allowing the flow of in formation and responsible evolution of AI. A 
balanced framework  should avoid undue barriers to data processing and collection 
while imposing reasonable data  minimization, consent, and consumer rights 
frameworks.  
8.Standards
The advantages of industry -led standardization in AI development are well 
established  and have been reinforced by the first Trump Administration  in Executive 
Order 13859 , which  emphasized the need for the U nited States  to drive the 
development of technical standards, reduce barriers to AI testing and deployment, 
and enable both new AI -driven industries and AI adoption across existing sectors. A 
key benefit of private sector and stakeholder participation in AI developmen t is the 
flexibility it provides to adapt to the rapid evolution of the technology. American 
companies have been at the forefront of AI innovation, and the U nited States  must 
continue to harness and support their leadership. The most effective approach is to 
sustain a private -sector -driven model, with strong government support.   


9 While private industry should lead AI standardization efforts, the U.S. government 
plays a vital role in supporting and participating in these initiatives. This includes 
providing resources, investing in research to sustain America’s AI dominance, and 
faci litating contributions to global standards. Additionally, the Trump 
Administration should take proactive steps to prevent AI standardization from being 
undermined by standard -essential patent (SEP) challenges that have affected other 
technologies, such as cellular and Wi -Fi. The longstanding U.S. model —where the 
government promotes and backs private, voluntary, and consensus -based 
standard setting —remains the best path forward.  CHI has developed  a detailed 
issue brief on the growing risks SEP abuses pose to the healthcare sector ,8 which 
we urge OSTP  to consider  as it proceeds with putting its AI Action Plan together.  
The United States has the leading global patent system due to its strong  emphasis 
on developing mechanisms that support innovation and foster competition and 
technological progress. When patent holders choose to contribute their 
technologies to a technical standard, they understand and agree that their patents 
may be needed to enable reasonable access to the standard and provide standard -
setting organizations (SSOs) with a commitment that they will license their SEPs on 
fair, reasonable, and non -discriminatory (FRAND) terms to balance the 
anticompetitive risks associated with standard setting. The SEP holder understands 
and agrees that , by contributing to the standardization process, it cannot unduly 
exclude competitors from a standard past requiring a license  on FRAND terms . 
Opportunistic SEP holders have distorted this system by taking advantage of SSO 
policies that have ambiguous definit ions of FRAND to manipulate a fair licensing 
negotiation process by, for example, overcharging or refusing to license to certain 
entities in a supply chain. Since SSOs facilitate access to technical standards that 
touch various industries, these opportunis tic SEP holders plague many verticals, 
always looking for the next market to extract additional and unrelated value for their 
SEP. The anticompetitive harms experienced in the SEP licensing ecosystem disrupt 
fair usage of technical standards that support e fficient innovation.  
The AI Action Plan should position the U.S. government to:  
•Restrict the ability of foreign SEP holders to impose injunctions on U.S.
companies in foreign jurisdictions.
•Leverage diplomatic influence to pressure foreign governments to prevent
their courts from enabling SEP -related hold -ups that disadvantage American
businesses.
•Implement domestic safeguards to curb SEP hold -up, including  reforming
the U.S. International Trade Commission  (ITC) to limit foreign entities from
leveraging costly SEP exclusion orders against U.S. companies ; and
8 This issue paper is a ccessible at: https://connectedhi.com/wp -content/uploads/2025/03/CHI -Issue -Paper -
Healthcare -and -Standard -Essential -Patents -Feb -202568.pdf .  


10 defending the Supreme Court’s eBay  decision, which eliminated the 
automatic presumption of injunctions in patent disputes.  
9.Global Leadership and  Trade
To maintain America’s AI leadership, the AI Action Plan must include a strong 
international strategy that keeps foreign markets open to U.S. AI. To achieve this 
and strengthen both economic and national security, we urge you to advance a 
U.S. -led vision of innovation -driven AI governance, protec t critical AI assets, and
prevent foreign governments from obstructing U.S. AI innovators and deployers.  We
encourage the AI Action Plan to address the U.S.  role as a global leader that
advocate s for a holistic vision of trustworthy AI rooted in American values, designed
to empower workers , and drive global economic growth . The AI Action Plan should
enable the U.S. government to :
•Proactively engage with foreign governments to prevent harmful AI policies
that undermine U.S. leadership, restrict commercial AI deployment, or block
significant U.S. AI investments.
•Refine and enforce export control policies to restrict adversaries' access to
critical technologies.
•Reinforce core U.S. digital trade policies to uphold cross -border data flows,
resist forced data localization, and protect AI’s algorithmic integrity
(including model weights) from exploitation or coercive transfers, ensuring
AI’s full potential is realize d.
•Aggressively safeguard U.S. digital market access from policies that erode
competitiveness, seek unauthorized access to trade secrets, or impose
excessive taxes and regulatory burdens on American companies , such as
the European Union’s (EU’s) AI Act and the EU’s Digital Markets Act .
•Strengthen a trusted AI ecosystem that secures national and economic
interests, including critical infrastructure, by enhancing cybersecurity
measures.
•Embed AI priorities into the negotiating framework of future trade
agreements, including free trade agreements  and industry -specific accords.
•Lead the AI and digital agenda across key international forums (UN, G7,
WTO, G20, OECD), ensuring the U nited States  remains at the forefront of
global AI governance.
•Proactively engage with foreign governments shaping AI regulations to
safeguard U.S. market access and champion an innovation -driven
approach —advocating for adherence to global technical standards,
leveraging existing regulatory frameworks where applicable , and promoting
pro-innovation policies like open government data.


11 
 10. Education  
 
The AI Action plan  should support education for the advancement of AI  in 
healthcare , promote examples  that demonstrate the success of AI  in heal thcare , 
and encourage stakeholder engagements to keep  frameworks responsive to 
emerging opportunities and challenges.  
• Consumers should be educated as to the use of AI in the service(s) they are 
using.  
• Academic education should include curriculum that will advance the 
understanding of and  ability to use AI solutions.  
 
11. Intellectual Property  
 
The protection of intellectual property (IP) rights is critical to the evolution of AI  in 
healthcare . In developing  approaches and frameworks for AI governance, 
policymakers should ensure that compliance  measures and requirements do not 
undercut  safeguards for IP or trade secre ts. 
 
AI is an important tool for innovators and authors of creative works to use in their 
process to develop IP protected works. Similarly, AI as we know it is constantly 
evolving , and its capability is not fully realized at this time. In order to continue 
incent ing innovative and creative works within the AI space and through the 
assistance of AI, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the U.S. Copyright Office 
must focus their IP issuance and registration analysis on the amount of human 
involvement rather than AI  involvement.  
 
While promoting transparency, we advise against disclosing proprietary 
information, such as training data. The mere fact that a model was trained on 
specific data does not guarantee its effectiveness for a given use case. Instead, the 
scient ifically sound and industry -standard approach to assessing performance is 
testing the model in its intended environment using data representative of the target 
population.  


12 CHI  appreciates OSTP’s consideration of the above views.  
Sincerely,  
Brian Scarpelli  
Executive Director  
Chapin Gregor  
Policy Counsel  
Connected Health Initiative  
1401 K St NW (Ste 501)  
Washington, DC 20005  


