PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-fu76-rm a1
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1571
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Rhys Iliakis
Em ail:  
General Comment
AI, particularly generative AI, is deeply corrupting m y work as a graphic artist/illustrator. Not only is it being pressed upon us on all sides,
but it generates subpar “work” and scrapes from  other artists to “learn.” Along with that, working artists have to now consistantly vouch
that their work is actually handm ade and justify charging a livable wage for their work. I know this adm inistration likely couldn’t care less
about how im portant having a hum an eye and hand in creation of largely dissem inated work, but as Marshall McLuhan said, “The m edium
is the m essage.” By forefronting and deregulating AI generation tools, the im portance of craft and the livelihood of working artists is
undercut. 
Why is hum an-m ade art im portant and why should it be recognized as such? I’m  a graphic artist, I work m aking art for a com pany and
other sm all organizations on the side. I have developed an eye over years of work that no com puter can replicate and few hum ans will
notice unless I m ake an error. My work allows for ease of com prehension of com plex topics, it processes them  in m y brain and translates
them  visually into a com prehensible form . An AI does not have the discretion to be aware of what baggage it was program m ed with and
will spit out uncritical im ages that can warp m eaning. I can get deeper into the philosophy of this but that about sum s it up. 
But if you care m ore for the m eat and potatoes: this is m y career and I love doing it. I love working with sm all orgs for under what I would
usually charge because I can m ake ends m eet with m y day job. If AI undercuts that and floods the m arket, people will notice som ething is
off and feels artificial, they won’t like it, but they won’t necessarily know why. Art and design is m ade WITH hum ans in m ind, AI does not
care. But profit m otives will push people to use it m ore and it will negatively affect m y working relationships as I work slower than an AI
(even if m y product is better). I want to continue working to m ake people’s visual lives richer. AI slop is slop, but it’s cheap slop. Let’s
put funding into real live hum an artists instead of m ore anti-hum an em ployee cutting m easures.
AI needs to be deeply regulated to forefront hum an wellbeing, even at the cost of another country doing it better. The ONLY way this
country can be great is ensuring the quality of life of ALL the citizens. AI has chipped away at quality of life and quality of work for several
years now. I have seen it prim arily used for scam s and fraudulent businesses, on the art front. Regulation m ay slow “innovation” in som e
respects but it will encourage the AI m akers to be m ore creative and ethical with their work instead of m aking it as fast as they can to
am ass wealth. This is technology we need to be careful with, for hum anity’s sake.
Anyway, if this adm inistration thinks AI can replace all “worthless” jobs like art, then m aybe it could replace the whole executive branch.
Just m y two cents.


