PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-phkl-eoy4
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2711
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
The m ethods in which OpenAI and Google plan to collect training data is absurdly anti-com petitive and generally unethical. This proposal
is effectively granting these com panies special exception to blatantly violate copyright law and fair use. Even if other AI com panies were
allowed to freely use copyrighted m aterials in their training m odels, the lack of com pensation for the original creators of the training
m aterials would disincentivize creating any further m aterial at all. AI m odels cannot create new m aterial in the sam e way hum ans can and
m ust constantly rely on a continuous source of data. The quality of their m odels will decay over tim e without this.
Should Google and OpenAI be granted this exception, it would lead to them  becom ing a large scale m onopoly, stifling any further
innovation in not just the field of artificial intelligence but in all creative m edia. It is a blatant double standard as well. I'm  certain both
Google and OpenAI would take issue to their own data being used for training by a rival AI com pany.
If these com panies need to gain an unfair advantage in order to rem ain com petitive, then they need to reconsider how they are running
their business in the first place. OpenAI and Google is effectively asking all creatives across the United States of Am erica to work for free.
That does not exactly sound like a free m arket capitalist society. This is m ade worse so as these com panies do not necessarily have the
best interests of the Am erican people in m ind when they are depriotizing quality of service.
Google in particular is already m aking Internet searches difficult by lim iting the results you want to see as well as giving incorrect, biased
inform ation as well as prioritizing advertisem ents over accurate inform ation. Effectively, they are also lim iting free speech and a person's
right to public inform ation.
Future AI laws need to prevent this disastrous scenario from  happening.


