PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-ykpr-c8aa
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5120
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Dominic Momeno  
General Comment
Regarding the "Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan":
AI is an integral part of our m odern lives and will continue to evolve alongside society's advancem ents. It certainly has its place as a
valuable tool for assisting in various endeavors. Tasks such as research and com plex calculations can be perform ed with far greater ease
than what could be achieved using only a search engine or a library.
However, AI is still a relatively new technology—one that m ust be regulated for the benefit of both hum anity and its developm ent.
Allowing this bill to pass would grant OpenAI copyright im m unity for its creation and, in effect, perm it the product to exploit the work of
visual artists, writers, and other creators. 
Without any repercussions, this would set a dangerous precedent, encouraging the theft of original content and reducing hum an-m ade
m edia to m ass-generated output, with no regard to the original creation. This would be sim ilar to allowing a film  to utilize a character not
yet within' the public dom ain sim ply because an AI was allowed to bootleg the character, rather then a corporation.
No com pany should be granted im m unity from  the consequences of its technology. Such an exem ption would be undem ocratic and unjust
to those who create with their own hands, rather than sim ply inputting a prom pt and letting a m achine generate their work. As stated
earlier, allowing this to pass would establish a troubling precedent by shielding a com pany from  accountability for its product's im pact.
While AI is not inherently som ething to be condem ned, if this plan is approved, it will do nothing but harm  online creators while benefiting
only the com pany behind the technology. For the benefit of both AI and hum an creators, lim itations m ust be im posed on OpenAI, the
sam e as any other com pany.


