PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1jnq-1svb
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7525
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Let me be absol utely &^% clear: AI outputs of word or "visual media" are NOT innovative in the sl ightest way. The are weak, 
jumbled regurgitations. They are half baked illegitimate tai lored col lage copies.
This excerpt, "which hampered t he private sector's ab ility to innovate in AI" is incredibly misleading, ironic, and overstated.
There is nothing innovative or creat ive abo ut outright theft and reco nfigured reprod uctions.
There is no thought or pat ience, time or sk ill required, no understa nding of too ls or tec hnique necessar y, nor depth of co mprehension or  
apprec iation for the experience to master.
"AI for art" is for the talentless in want of instant gratification to make a q uick do llar.
"AI for art" is the cheapest ro ute corporat ions and cap italists wish to take, pa ved by t hen unemployed and underapprec iated art ists.
"AI for art" is an o verzealous greedy flash pan fad imitation that will run itself ragged to e xtinction in spite of its fanatic back ing beca use it is 
just as e xpendable to its soulless owners as little they value other's be loved art work; t hey care abo ut money, not art. They want a res ult, 
not a creat ive process. They want content to se ll, not an interest, a hobby, a pass ion, for the fun and love of art itself.
They want tested, tr ied and reliable results, nothing fresh, new, provocative or innovative. "AAA Games" and "Hollywood Mo vies" have 
shown this time and again, rare ly pushing anything forward themselves, tak ing very little risk, guided b y "reliable" algorithms. AI will only 
make this worse.
AI trained on scraped data ( written word as well as images) for Art is repulsive, unethical, and should (rat ionally) be illegal, and cop yright 
protected.
This all said without going into its tremendous energy consumption.
AI trained on HUMAN CREATIONS WI THOUT CONS ENT is disgusting, criminal, and wrong.


