PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-95vp-s90f
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1451
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Knowledge Alliance
General Comment
Knowledge Alliance com m ent is attached.
Attachments
Knowledge Alliance Com m ents on AI RFI


1 
March 14 , 2025  
Faisal D'Souza  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD)  National Coordinating 
Office  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Re: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Dear Mr. D’Souza,  
Knowledge Alliance (KA) is pleased to respond to the Networking and Information Technology 
Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO) National Science 
Foundation ’s (NSF) Request for Information  on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Pla n. Knowledge Alliance  is a non -profit, non -partisan organization composed of the leading 
education groups dedicated to empowering schools, districts and all 50 States with the tools and 
resources needed to improve learning and outcomes for every student.  
This Request for Information seeks input from the public on the development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan , as directed  in an  Executive Order  on January 23, 2025 , on policy 
actions  “to promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security.”  KA 
appreciates the goal of “human flourishing” as part of this Action Plan and believes that equipping 
students, parents, and educators with the knowledge and tools to use AI effectively is an important 
part of this goal. In addition, maintaining a strong federal investment in education research and 
development is critical to growing the application and promise of AI in education to contribute to 
improved student outcomes and human flouris hing.  KA supports the development of an AI Action 
Plan and in particular the opportunity such a plan offers to deepen AI contributions to student 
learning, educator support, research, and parents’ and educators’ access to data to drive improved 
student outcomes and workforce readiness.   
State  education agencies (SEAs),  local education agencies (LEAs) , and educators are already using 
AI, such as D.C. Public Schools staff who partnered with the Regional Educational Laboratory (REL) 
Mid-Atlantic to use AI to analyze its data on Multi -Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS) more 
efficiently to better support their students. Additionally, teachers are using AI to increase 
personalized learning,  and students are learning about AI as a research tool. It is important that this 
Action Plan builds on this momentum to reach and support all interested students and educators to 


2 
engage in AI , while also supporting effective and responsible learning and use of AI in  our nation’s 
schools.   
Due to our members' deep experience and involvement with district and state leaders who are 
exploring and testing the use of AI  in education , KA is positioned to provide substantive feedback on 
this RFI. KA offers the following recommendations  to ensure that the Action Plan considers and 
meets the needs of our nation’s students, parents, educator s, and education researchers.  
Policy Topic: Application and Use  
KA recommends that any application and use of AI models, either in the private sector or by 
government, ensure student data privacy consistent with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy 
Act ( FERPA ) and other applicable  federal  laws. KA recommends the EDSAF E AI Alliance  Framework  
as a resource in developing these safeguards to protect student data, privacy , and data quality in 
any AI application.  
Policy Topic: Regulation and Governance  
KA recommends  guidance on the ethical and responsible implementation of AI in education . For 
example, where it is appropriate to use AI for more efficient data analysis, it is not appropriate to 
use AI to develop Individualized Education Plans (IEPs) for students enrolled in special education, 
due to the personalized nature of these plans and to account for the input and feedback of the 
individual student, their parents/caregivers, and education team. Guidance could include the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology Artificial Intelligence Risk Management Framework , 
which  encourages  trustworthiness considerations into the design, use, and evaluation of AI 
products, services, and systems . 
Policy Topic: Research and Development  
KA encourages consult ation  with KA and other national  organizations representing education 
research  in the development of any policy actions  on the use of AI in education research  and 
evaluation . KA members have deep experience and expertise in education research that would 
inform thoughtful and responsible policy.  For example, there are several kinds of education 
research -from quasi -experimental  to randomized control trials, that all require different approaches  
and an understanding of them to inform any integration of AI into the research process. There is 
great promise in the use of AI to enhance education research , development, and dissemination  that 
can lead to improved student outcomes, and should be done in a way to empower researchers  to 
drive that process.   


3 
Policy Topic: Education and Workforce  
KA encourages ED to issue  guidance on eligible federal funding and best practices to promote  AI 
training  and literacy for students, parents, educators, LEAs, and SEAs.  The Regional Educational 
Laboratories (RELs) and Comprehensive Centers (CCs) are  ideal  partners for this kind of capacity -
building with States, districts, and educators  on anything from building evidence on the uses of AI  in 
education to u sing generative AI for more efficient data analysis at the district or state level to 
learning effective instructional practices to help students use AI responsibly.   
Policy Topic: Innovation and Competition  
In order for the U.S. education system to stay innovative and globally competitive, the federal 
government must maintain a strong investment in education research and development through 
the Ins titute of Education Sciences (IES) at ED to foster the research and application of AI in learning  
and to prepare students for the workforce involving AI. These investments must  also include 
programs like the Regional Educational Laboratories (RELs) that generate research, evidence and 
tools for States to implement to improve student outcomes and are driven by States’ and districts’ 
expressed priorities.  RELs are positioned to support States and districts to use AI to improve student 
outcomes, as the REL Mid -Atlantic did through working with DCPS to use generative AI to analyze its 
data on Multi -Tiered Systems of Supports (MTSS). Another critical federal program that can 
accelerate educators’ AI literacy and use is the Comprehensive Centers (CCs) grant program that, 
like the RELs, work with all 50 states and U.S. territories. The CCs help States and districts identify, 
implement and sustain effective evidence -based practices that support improved educator and 
student outcomes  and adapt their work based on State and district needs and desire for innovative 
approaches including AI. Additionally, KA recommends strong investment in the Education 
Innovation and Research (EIR) Grant Program  and as a vehicle to include a s a priority for applicants 
the use of AI to enhance student learning. EIR grants provide funding to create, develop, 
implement, replicate, or take to scale entrepreneurial, evidence -based, field -initiated innovations to 
improve student outcomes. The EIR program consists of three different types of grants ( early, mid -
phase and expansion grants ) that  allocate increased investments as the level of evidence 
increases —an efficient and smart investment of Federal funds . In addition  to these investments in 
IES, KA recommends strengthening funding at NSF for education -related research that can advance 
innovations in AI to support educators  and students in teaching and learning.  
Policy Topic: Model Development  
KA recommends that the AI Action Plan put in place safeguards in the development of AI models to 
prevent or mitigate bias that has been detected in current AI models. For example, a 2023 Stanford 
University study  found that generative AI models such as ChatGPT  often falsely identify  non-native 


4 
English writing as AI generated. Education researchers can support the testing of AI models to 
detect and protect against this kind of bias before it is used by students and educators.  
Conclusion  
KA supports the development of an AI Action Plan that can improve student outcomes , empower 
researchers, and support parents, educators, and policymakers with more efficient ways to learn 
how students are doing and how we can best support them to succeed. Thank you for the 
opportunity to provide input on this  Action Plan and p lease do not hesitate to reach out if you have 
any questions  or if there is anything we can do to help.  
Sincerely,  
Rachel Dinkes  
President  and CEO  
Knowledge Alliance  


