PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2hno-787b
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8327
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Real hum an artists have taken their entire lifetim e to be able to create what they do. Real hum an artists have invested heavily in their
education, their supplies, and the tim e it takes to refine a skill. And real hum an artists deserve to have the final say on what is or isn't fair
use for their individual works. Copyright holders m ust have the right to decide for them selves whether their work can be used to train AI
m odels or not. Any law or ruling that takes that choice away from  artists, by forcibly allowing AI as "fair use", is unethical and against the
spirit of what copyright is m eant to achieve. Any law or ruling that rem oves artists' rights over their own work will have a profoundly
negative and lasting im pact on the arts, m oreso than AI-generative technology already has. What m ay benefit business in the short term
will hobble the creative industries that we all rely on in the long run. There is no m odern business that can exist without the arts; art is
m arketing, packaging, architecture. Everything hum ans create with intent can be considered part of the dom ain of art. To allow art to be
recycled and regurgitated without any hum an sensibility, while refusing to pay real hum an artists for the "fair use" of their work, is
profoundly harm ful. This has im plications far beyond the Am erican border; your international peers will think poorly of you if you choose
to support AI over the rights of real hum an artists.
As an artist m yself, and as som eone who prim arily hangs out with other artists, I cannot begin to tell you how m uch harm  AI generation
has already done to the industry. Incredibly skilled artists now find that they cannot get work, because m any businesses are too short-
sighted to realize the im plications of using AI-generated m aterials in their advertising and branding. But as artists struggle and give up, as
artists have to take retail and food service jobs to pay their bills, the supply of artwork for AI m odels to claim  "fair use" of will dry up, until
they have nothing to feed on but each other. The quality of what is sold as "art" will plum m et, and historians will look back upon this era as
a dark age, a blank spot in hum an cultural progression.
AI has the potential to be som ething so m uch better. Im agine what we could achieve if AI m odels were leveraged by real hum an artists,
instead of against them ? We don't need to continue this trend of pitting technology against the arts, when the two are so intim ately
entwined. But in order for there to be any kind of m utually beneficial relationship between the two, artists need to have the final say on
how their own work is used. Copyright docum ents need to m ake explicit whether the copyrighted work is fair for AI m odels to use. I am
certain that som e artists will choose to m ake their work available, but it won't be free, and it shouldn't be stolen.
If you have ever enjoyed a piece of art in your life, if you are as hum an as the rest of us, you know what the right thing to do is. Please
m ake a choice that we can all live with.


