PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-dwc2-t2zh
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1937
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Evan Alexander
General Comment
AI is som ething that's been part of our lives for a while now, despite the blow up in the last couple years. I don't see it going away, and
honestly, I don't know that it should given what good could com e of it. 
"Generative" AI is where the concern seem s to stem  from  and I do think creatives and copyright holders have every right to be worried.
There's already been a large num ber of cases where AI software has been used to generate content that copies and in som e cases, com es
very close to com pletely reproducing what is and should be seen as copyrighted m aterial. 
I believe, now m ore than ever, that we need to keep ethics in m ind as we look to grow the United States' AI capabilities. People need to
be com pensated for their work in som e way if it is used in generative work. Full stop. Even if it takes AI m inutes to create a product, it's
building on a foundation created in part by hardworking Am ericans who still use those skills to earn a living. I'd like to see a system
content creators can apply for that either fully exem pts their work from  any scraping attem pts or allows them  to receive com pensation any
tim e their work is used to train. 
With how big the powers that be are trying to m ake AI in our day to day lives, what I'd like to see is a global sum m it where rules and
regulations for AI use around the world can be drafted up to m ake sure everyone has an understanding of how to grow this technology
ethically. This would also m ake sure everyone is on an equal playing field, so if a country does end up being on the cutting edge, it will be
because of the talent and ingenuity of that country's researchers.


