PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-34az-z80v
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8838
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Anna Kirby   
Email: 
General Comment
I am  an average Am erican who cares deeply for the arts, and hopes to one day be a published author. I have worked hard for the artistic
skills I have for writing, and I deeply respect the hard work and dedication artists of all stripes have put into learning their crafts. Their art
is a valued, beloved and lucrative cornerstone of Am erican culture and Am erican cultural exports abroad.
The AI system s m ade by Big Tech com panies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy thousands of Am erican artists'
livelihoods, their sm all businesses, with their recent dem and to create special carve outs in copyright law.
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. The work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday
Am erican creators was taken and fed into these AI system s without their consent or any com pensation. They ingest artists' and sm all
business owners' work, reassem ble it, and then sell it back to their clients – directly com peting with them  and cutting them  out of the
m arketplace.
Now these Big Tech com panies are asking this adm inistration to create exceptions and loopholes to m ake this practice of stealing
Am erican creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a m achine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it
is som ehow suddenly “fair use”. 
Which is patently ridiculous. Fair use of copyright m aterial is com m only understood as works that critique or com m ent on a work,
journalistic reporting, research, nonprofit education reuse, or parody purposes. How is feeding copyright m aterial into a m achine that then
regurgitates the m aterial back out like a cat hacking up a hairball? As the hairball is recognizably hair, these generative AI system s are still
recognizably ripping off original, copyrighted works. Generative AI is barely a step above posting a m ovie to YouTube in 12 ten-m inute
parts with a waterm ark over the clips to avoid a DMCA take down.
They seem  to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim
that if this adm inistration does not allow them  to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle Am erican innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of Am erican copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the Am erican people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the
incentive to create? If everyday Am ericans create a new innovative piece of com puter code, a new visual design, or a new piece of m usic
only to have it im m ediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly m ake a living
doing these things?
This will create an atm osphere directly harm ful to Am erican arts and businesses. Want to protect Am erican innovation? Protect Am erican
creators. Do not create new copyright exem ptions that allow Big Tech com panies to exploit and steal from  creators and everyday
Am ericans without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency.
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech com panies, but rather on ensuring a fair
m arketplace with com petition:


First, the governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, so that we can decide when and where
our work is used by AI system s. Am erican creators deserve the option to protect their work and decide for them selves whether to sell AI
rights to their work.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is
preserved. Their work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just
Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their
training datasets, and label what content is AI generated. After all, everyone deserves to know what has gone into the databases that this
code draws upon to chop up and rem ix original m aterial.
I am  not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am  im pressed by the capabilities of these AI system s, and can see their use for m any things. But we
should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Am ericans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to com m ent on these im portant issues.


