PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1huw-ch3f
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7792
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Alex Lee-Goldm an   
Email: 
General Comment
See attached file.
Attachments
letter


Alexandria Lee-Goldman
Re: National Science F oundation ’s Request for Information on the D evelopment of an Artificial 
Intelligence (A I) Action Plan
I’m an American who works as an artist. I create c omics and artbooks, and I sell them myself to 
customers. I have worked and developed these s kills for years . This work makes up a vital part of 
my income that I need to survive and support myself.
The AI models made by OpenAI and Google are a threat to my livelihood by trying to erode 
copyright law. AI models must use training data t hat comes from real humans. My own work and 
the work of hundreds of other creators have be en taken and used in these s ystems without our 
knowledge, consent, or any form of compensation. Not only that, but our art is then used against 
us as AI image ge nerators are in direct competition with our line of work. How is this okay? 
Using our art without consent is a violation of copyright, s o AI companies are trying to say that if 
someone uses a machine t o manipulate t he copyrighted work, it is somehow “fair use.”
They present  AI systems as being “innovative” but in truth it will stifle American innovation and 
creativit y. It is simply a means of funneling money away from artists and towards the  AI owners, 
and it will stagnate creativity and American soft power in the process.
If artists cannot own their creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by tech 
companies, what will the incentive be to create? If ordina ry Americans create a new innovative 
piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music onl y to have i t immediately 
stolen by Google a nd Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? H ow will we pos sibly 
make a living doing these things?
There i s a place for AI in societ y, but it should not rely on stolen data . There must be a system 
that allows creators to continue to create their work and make a living. Without us, AI would not 
even exist in the first place.
Thank you.


