PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3q9l-b5qs
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9575
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Spencer Timm 
General Comment
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.
I am  a freelance writer that m akes a living by bringing the ideas of others to life. There are endless individuals out there that lack the tim e
or the skill to bring their ideas to the page, and I offer the chance for them  to see what these ideas can becom e. This is a skill that I have
honed for years, getting better and better over tim e, and investing m y new learning in further experim entation so that I can becom e better
still. 
That is all the work that I have done, and the idea that generative AI, no m atter the source, m ight be allowed to just bypass basic
protections and use it, incom petently, for the purposes of others that are trying to save a few bucks is horrifying. 
It is not just the fact that generative and other AI is genuinely harm ful to the environm ent, nor is it the fact that AI is a cost-cutting,
generally less-effective m easure of generating either content or m aterial. It is the fact that this use of AI deliberately and by design
bypasses the people that have been the backbone of the creative industry for years, and in doing so, pushes out works that will inevitably
outnum ber the original creations that fed the AI to start with. 
Because let’s be clear. The only reason that this is happening is because AI has already feasted on everything that it legally – and illegally –
could, and now, it wants m ore. Because it still isn’t good enough, and it never will be, but Big Tech wants to pretend that it can so that
they can rake in a few m ore dollars before the bubble pops. 
For the sake of all creative types, artists, writers, and m ore, I beg you, do not carve out any exceptions for Big Tech, for AI, for anything.
Copyright exists for a reason; this is not the reason to change it. 
Thank you for your tim e.
See attached file(s)
Attachments
AI Action Plan Com m ents


1
March 15, 2025
From:
Spencer Timm
Freelance Writer/Ghostwriter
Re: National Science F oundation ’s Request for Information on the D evelopment of an Artificial 
Intelligence (A I) Action Plan
This document is approved for public disseminati on. The doc ument contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be re used by the government in 
developing the A I Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
I am a freelance w riter that makes a living by bringing the i deas of others to life. There are 
endless individuals out there that lack the time or the s kill to bring their ideas to the pa ge, and I 
offer the chance for them to see what these i deas can become . This is a skill that I have honed for 
years, getting better and better over time, and investing my new learning in further 
experimentation so that I can become be tter still. 
That is all the w ork that I have done, and the idea that generative AI, no matter the source, might 
be allowed to just bypa ss basic protections and use i t, incompetentl y, for the purpos es of others 
that are trying to save a few bucks is horri fying. 
It is not just the fact that generative and other AI is genuinely harmful to the e nvironment, nor is 
it the fa ct that AI is a cost-cutting, generally less-effective measure of generating either content 
or material. It is the fact that this use of AI deliberately and by design bypasses the people that 
have been the backbone of the c reative industry for years, and in doing so, pushes out works that 
will inevitably outnumber the original creations that fed the AI to start with. 
Because l et’s be clear. The onl y reason that this is happening is because AI has already feasted on 
everything that it legally – and illegally – could, and no w, it wants more. Because it still isn’t 
good enough, and it never will be, but Big Tech wants to pretend that it can so that they can rake 
in a few more dollars before the bubble pops . 
For the s ake of all creative types, artists, writers, and more, I beg you, do not carve out any 
exceptions for Big Tech, for AI, for anything. Copyright exists for a reason; this is not the reason 
to change it. 
Thank you for your time.


