PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-bos6-b3v7
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1863
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Every single person I've ever talked to, both offline and online, hates the current AI trends with every bone in their body. Most people
who see AI used in m arketing and business assum e that the com pany who used it is either a scam  com pany, or too lazy to put effort into
m arketing, so why should their product be trusted? The blatant disregard of copyright by AI com panies has already been a destruction on
m ultiple creative industries, losing talented people their jobs and m aking them  starve. AI has even been used to tarnish dead people's
legacies, like for exam ple in the case of Kim  Jung Gi, who died of a heart attack in 2022 and in less than 24 hours had an AI m odel m ade
of his artwork.
That's not even getting into the disgusting dehum anization done by these AI com panies. David Holz, CEO of Midjourney, has been caught
on record referring to the artists his com pany stole from  as "datasets" and "styles". He has gone as far as to gloat that all you have to do is
feign ignorance on where art com es from , and you won't be caught on copyright. Sam  Altm an, CEO of OpenAI, has even adm itted that
developm ent of AI could lead to hum an extinction, stating, "Mitigating the risk of extinction from  A.I. should be a global priority alongside
other societal-scale risks such as pandem ics and nuclear war," in a 2023 statem ent, signed by m ultiple other tech leaders including Elon
Musk him self. Funny now that in 2025, OpenAI is the lead com pany pushing for destruction of our copyright system s, with Elon Musk at
the helm  of "governm ent deregulation"; an action that has lead to a bird flu epidem ic and tensions rising around the world.
Is this the Am erica we want to be? One that prides itself on self-destruction and stealing away hum an creativity? It certainly isn't the
Am erica m ost Am ericans want, and it's high tim e the governm ent actually starts listening to their people.


