PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-5ez9-86vy
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1411
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  The College Investor LLC
General Comment
We are a sm all team  of journalists and creators that publish written news content, research topics and share insights from  that research,
and create unique educational podcasts and videos in the personal finance industry. Our Am erican team  creates dozens articles, videos,
and podcasts every m onth. 
We are already seeing positive and negative uses of artificial intelligence (AI). AI has m ade us m ore productive as journalists. But AI has
also stolen our content, m is-attributed or created fake quotes attributed to our authors, and we have little to no recourse to resolve these
issues.
As a sm all, US-based independent web publisher, AI is a useful tool to help analyze docum ents, sum m arize content, im prove gram m ar,
and m ore. 
However, it also has the potential to censor content, steal content by violating copyright laws, and cut off the connection that Am ericans
have with creators, authors, researchers, journalists, and m ore. It's well known that AI "hallucinates", and we see that everyday. 
In the personal finance space specifically (which we focus in), incorrect AI driven answers can lead to Am ericans m aking incorrect, or
even harm ful, personal finance decisions. 
We did a study of 100 personal finance related quires on Google, and found that their Google AI Overview was incorrect or m isleading in
43% of searches (https://thecollegeinvestor.com /47758/google-ai-m isleads-in-43-of-finance-related-searches/). This has the real potential
to im pact Am ericans negatively.
An Artificial Intelligence Action Plan should focus on harnessing the power of AI, while also protecting the basic freedom s of Am ericans
to have access to inform ation that is accurate, uncensored, not m anipulated or m isattributed, or in the worse case, not stolen by large
com panies and their associated "AI" m odels and republished as their own.
I encourage the National Science Foundation to build a fram ework for AI that:
1. Respects copyright law. Content that is used for AI m odels needs to be properly sourced and attributed. In the open web, this also
m eans linking to the prim ary sources. Copyright protections exist to ensure that content creators can be com pensated, and a result, will
continue to create. If you weaken or rem ove this protection, it could create a society where these is no journalism , research, or
entertainm ent, since AI tools would steal and m isappropriate.
2. Allows content creators (publishers, journalists, independent video creators, podcast creators, etc.) to opt in or out of allowing their
content used in AI m odels. There should be incredibly strong recourse for violations. There are already laws on copyright infringem ent,
and this should be expanded to include AI learning.
3. In ensuring that copyright laws are protected, any fram ework should also ensure that content is not censored. The United States stands
strong in protecting free speech, em bedded in the First Am endm ent. Big tech com panies have allegedly already engaged in using m achine
learning and AI to censor content, and this should not be allowed.


4. There m ust be a focus on factual accuracy. As we highlighted, AI answers are notoriously incorrect. There m ust be recourse for AI
com panies if they choose to allow or engage in their system s creating m isinform ation. If they choose to publish incorrect answers, they
should be held accountable - just like any other publisher of inform ation. This includes the ability to hold them  accountable for libel and
defam ation, as well as errors and om issions in financial services.
We are facing an im portant m om ent in the use of new technologies that can enable a new level of productivity, econom ic prosperity, and
m ore. But this sam e tool is a double-edged sword, and failure to regulate it's use could cut deep into the Am erican econom y - creating a
world where Am erican businesses close, creators won't create because their content is stolen, news and journalism  fails because the
content is stolen, or a two-tiered licensed system  (where som e com panies license content to AI and others don't) that harm s com petition
and creates m ore m onopolies. 
Thank you for your consideration.


