PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1pjd-090w
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7668
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Michael 
Platson   Email: 
General Comment
With Due Respect,
The race for AI dom inance is an im portant one for our m utual security as a Nation and for our m oral security as a Society. What we train
AI on will not only dictate the responses we can expect from  it but also the usefulness we ourselves will see in ourselves. 
For the purposes of AI National Defense we should take great effort in creating an AI that is able to protect us from  external AI threats
while sim ultaneously avoiding unnecessary loss to hum an (citizen) freedom . AI activity for National Defense should, within reason, be
transparent to its citizens, if AIs are used to m onitor individuals there m ust be warrants for such application, and if AIs are instructed to
avoid m onitoring specific individuals that should be public inform ation as well. 
As for private use, great care m ust be taken to ensure that hum an copywritten work is protected from  freeloading appropriation for the
use of AI training. Personally I welcom e individuals selling their work for the purpose of training or educating AI but the wholesale action
to coopt countless copywritten works can not be allowed. It would be a sham e if, for exam ple the Trum p fam ily, received no recom pense
when their books are used to train for-profit AI m odels. If people becom e afraid their work will be stolen they will cease creative output
and we as a Nation will stagnate instead of m oving swiftly forward. Just as im portantly, there are m any already m aking a profit writing and
selling books on Am azon using AI, and then AI being trained on these books create a cycle of self-reinforcing sterile vapid content that
will ultim ately drive people away from  AI as a product; people will always reject sam eness. We m ust protect Hum an innovation at a basic
level, otherwise what are we? For what purpose is m oney if nothing is worth buying. For what purpose is a Leader/President when there
are no goals for our Nation to attain and an AI is just as good (or better) at achieving a status quo.
Innovation is the Heart of Hum anity, Tech com panies need to em brace innovation instead of crying about difficult restrictions, it is in fact
under the greatest restrictions that the m ost bold innovations are m ade.


