PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2br7-ts1p
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8177
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
AI as a technology is another Dot Com  bubble waiting to burst, and I think focusing on AI as som ething that will uplift Am erican tech is
short sighted and m istake. In the current race of com panies trying to im plem ent and expand their use of AI, its becom e clear that AI is full
of faults and risks that have yet to be properly addressed by the governm ent. 
Outside of the ethical concern, such as the fact that AI has and will be used to replace the jobs of hard working Am ericans in an attem pt
to m ake m ore profit, there are security risks and flaws that rapid expansion of this technology between various sectors, both public and
private, will only m ake worse. AI is known to have frequent "hallucination," which are instances of AI creating false inform ation and
presenting it as fact. Already there have be instances of AI creating false legal cases which were referenced by lawyers in court, putting
those cases in jeopardy. There have been instances of AI custom er service im plem ented by com panies that have given custom ers false
info about com pany policy, opening the door for legal action against com panies and confusion, dissatisfaction, and weakening trust from
consum ers when it com es to engaging with com panies that heavily us AI. There are also plenty of security risks that AI can pose both for
the average user and for a com pany. I know people personally who have spoken about AI assistants m eant to transcribe certain m eeting
notes, joining m eetings on their own and sending transcripts with sensitive inform ation about com pany workings and workers to people
who were not only not part of that m eeting, but were not approved to have access to these transcripts in the fist place.
What does it m ean if consum er, corporate, and governm entsites start im plem enting AI rapidly? All I can see is a weakening not only of
US internet security but also increasing distrust from  Am ericans. How can a custom er trust a site that will give them  false inform ation on
refunds? How can a com pany? What legal turm oil will Am erican com panies face when AI lies to both them  and their consum ers? What
about governm ent agencies? 
As I said at the beginning, AI is a bubble waiting to burst. While there is novelty to it, I and m any others I have spoken to have quickly
gone from  interest and curiosity in this new form  of technology, to wariness and distrust, avoid use when possible. Heavy investm ent in AI
by the US, in m y opinion, would be wasteful at best, and actively harm ful at worst. I ask that you please consider these concerns and how
it will adversely effect consum ers, US com panies, and governm ent agencies should this technology be blindly pushed without proper
consideration.


