PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-r8wc-h5af
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1713
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Paul Ruppar
General Comment
Rem oving copyright restrictions and allowing unfettered use of corporations to im ages, m edia, and data that they don't have the rights to
will honestly destroy any and all creative m edia, let alone private property. As an artist, this threatens m y livelihood and that of all others in
creative fields. These AI system s take inform ation (which they already don't own the rights to use) and cobble together am algam ations of
all these points of data and im ages, m aking som ething that is oftentim es the sam e or sim ilar to what it took from . How one can recognize
this as som ething useable or innovative is unbelievable. In Thaler v. Perlm utter, a federal court ruled that AI-generated artwork cannot be
copyrighted, and one cannot own the legal rights to som ething m ade with AI. If the whole reason is to be leading in an artificial war with
other countries' tech spheres, it's a m oot point because of that. 
Aside from  the creative-focused ethical issues, AI developm ent and usage causes a m assive toll on the earth. In a 2021 research paper,
scientists from  Google and the University of California at Berkeley estim ated the training process alone consum ed 1,287 m egawatt hours
of electricity (enough to power about 120 average U.S. hom es for a year), generating about 552 tons of carbon dioxide. That's just from
training, not even the use of said m odels. In addition, the m odels would need to be regularly retrained and replaced, causing exponential
dam age to our planet. 
In short, further focus and developm ent of AI is not wanted, but will overall harm  our industry. This has already gone on long and far
enough, don't let it get worse.


