PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-vzfa-l5oa
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3730
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Joardy Looney  
General Comment
While I can see artificial intelligence’s (AI) value in the advancem ent of m odern m edicine, I believe the generative AI - - the kind that
takes from  any and all copyrighted m aterial in order to regenerate low quality im ages and passes it off as its own work or the work of
som eone else. It’s stealing plain and sim ple. Stealing from  talented individuals who work tirelessly in this country to delight and entertain a
growing audience. Artist are being m uscled out of the industry that was m ade for them  by a tool that was m ade to work against them . This
isn’t autom ation at its finest, but rather a thinly veiled scam  from  tech com panies that refuse to hire those with the talent to create, or refuse
to learn them selves.
If generative AI cannot exist without stealing from  others, then it doesn’t have a place in this country of workers, doers, and creators. The
dem and for this technology is overinflated by those looking to siphon from  this countries two resources; Our wallets, and our artist.
One of the biggest exports in the US com es from  our entertainm ent industry. Artist who have worked on stages, backgrounds, art, and
anim ation. All of these things have entertained a worldwide audience and was crafted by talented individuals living here in this country. If
Generative AI is allowed to train on copyrighted m aterial, then there will be nothing stopping that industry from  falling apart. These
generative AI tricks are a flash in the pan, and when it’s left to m ake som ething on the scale of a blockbuster m ovie, people will look
elsewhere for entertainm ent. To give AI full rein over som ething warm  blooded Am ericans have created them selves, would be giving our
entertainm ent industry a shovel to dig its own grave.


