PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-nuc3-cnnc
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2587
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Enzai Technologies Lim ited
General Comment
Please see attached PDF.
Attachments
Enzai Com m ent


Enzai Technologies Limited 
590 Madison Avenue 
New York, NY 10022 
Attn: Office of Science and Technology Policy OSTP  
The White House 
1600 Pennsylvania Avenue 
Washington, DC 20500 
March 15, 2025 
Not e : This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential information. 
Dear White House OSTP Team, 
C om m e n t in  r e spon se  t o t h e  R F I on  t h e  De v e lopm e n t of a n  A I A ction  P la n  
Thank you for the opportunity to share our views with the drafters of the AI Action Plan 
to be developed pursuant to President Trumpʼs Executive Order 14179. We also 
appreciate the efforts of the Networking and Information Technology Research and 
Development NITRD  National Coordination Office NCO  within the National Science 
Foundation in administering this RFI on behalf of OSTP. 
A bou t En z a i T e ch n olog ie s 
Our company, Enzai Technologies, provides an AI governance, risk and compliance 
software platform to Fortune 500 customers around the world. Our team has deep 
expertise in developing intuitive, yet comprehensive, AI governance frameworks. Our 
software solution helps companies implement and operationalize their AI governance 
programs at scale, while aligning with voluntary and mandatory laws, standards and 
frameworks, including the NIST AI Risk Management Framework AI RMF , the AI 
Management Systems standard from ISO/IEC ISO/IEC 42001 , the European Union AI 
Act and the Colorado AI Act. 
R e com m e n da tion s 
We believe in AI ʼs immense potential to improve people ʼs lives and drive economic 
growth. We acknowledge the Trump administration ʼs emphasis on enabling private 
sector innovation. Our recommendations in this comment are informed by our close 
work with private sector organizations as they seek to deploy AI systems with 
confidence while mitigating their risks. 
1 


R e com m e n da tion  1   A r ticu la t e  a  positiv e  v ision  f or h o w  A I c a n  h e lp pe ople . 
AI has demonstrated enormous potential in scientific research, healthcare, business 
innovation and education. Given the Trump administration ʼs focus on “AI opportunity, ˮ 
the AI Action Plan should articulate a positive vision for how AI - and particularly 
frontier AI - can help people. This positive vision should include specific outcomes, 
such as providing high-quality, personalized healthcare for everyone who needs it, 
equipping businesses with the resources they need to deploy AI with confidence and 
empowering students of all ages to learn in a way that suits their goals, personalities 
and circumstances. R e com m e n da tion  2   A n ch or in t e r n a tion a l r e se a r ch  e f f or t s r e la t e d t o fr on tie r A I. 
Due to their advanced and rapidly improving capabilities, frontier AI systems pose a 
unique set of challenges that transcend industries and borders. We agree with the 
Trump administrationʼs view that given America ʼs strengths in frontier AI, American 
leadership on the global stage is indispensable. Once the administration has defined 
its positive vision for the societal benefits of frontier AI, it should support this vision 
with specific frontier AI-related projects, with the support of international 
collaborators. 
These projects should focus on both thematic areas (like explainability research) and 
sectoral areas (like life sciences). One outstanding model for such projects is the 
Human Genome Project HGP , a bipartisan 13-year effort to identify all the base pairs 
of the human genome. Though Americans led the HGP, participants from the United 
Kingdom, Japan, France, Germany and China also made significant contributions in 
funding and expertise. HGP insights enabled significant private sector innovation in 
healthcare and life sciences. Thanks to the HGP, researchers were able to rapidly 
sequence the Covid-19 virus and develop vaccines in 2020. 
Developing, funding and obtaining international buy-in for specific frontier AI-related 
projects will promote American leadership internationally and support private sector 
innovation in the long term, while addressing the unique set of challenges posed by 
frontier AI. 
R e com m e n da tion  3   S e t ru le s f or t h e  f e de r a l g o v e r n m e n t ʼ s u se  of A I. 
Despite AI ʼs vast potential, its rapid evolution challenges existing institutions. Scientists 
must think carefully about when and how to use AI, while adhering to longstanding 
research norms and methods. Educators must adapt to and shape the use of 
generative AI tools by their students. Companies often lack clear guidance on “what 
good looks likeˮ when deploying AI – delaying rather than enabling their use of AI. 
Given these realities, the administration should set clear rules for AI use in 
government, including by revising and strengthening the Office of Management and 
2 


Budget OMB  Memoranda M 2410 and M 2418 as envisioned by the President ʼs 
Executive Order 14179. These rules should state which AI uses are high-risk and how 
to mitigate risks. Though existing privacy, cybersecurity, anti-discrimination, and 
sector-specific considerations provide a strong basis for setting AI rules, they need to 
be supplemented in ways that consider AI-specific challenges, including adaptability, 
explainability, autonomy and scalability. Even though these rules will only apply within 
government, they will both send a clear signal to the private sector and help shape the 
market through government procurement efforts. R e com m e n da tion  4   R e cog n iz e  im por t a n t t e ch n ic a l st a n da r ds a n d fr a m e w or ks. 
AI gover nance efforts have come a long way in the past decade. Technical 
standardization organizations including NIST, ISO and IEC have published 
well-developed voluntary standards and frameworks for AI use, including the NIST AI 
RMF and ISO/IEC 42001, in addition to adding AI consideration to their cybersecurity 
frameworks. Standards organizations in industries like financial services and 
healthcare have also layered AI considerations into their technical standards. In many 
cases, industry organizations have already aligned with these frameworks and 
standards because they provide a shared set of definitions and concepts upon which 
practitioners can build. As the Trum p administration develops its AI Action Plan, and in alignment with its 
positive vision for the societal benefits of AI, it should identify and articulate the 
standards and frameworks that it considers credible within each industry. This will 
send a powerful signal to industry and kickstart private sector innovation. 
Thank y ou again for the opportunity to comment and for your work in this crucially 
important area. If you would like to discuss any of these issues further, please get in 
touch by e-mail at  We look forward to learning more about the AI Action 
Plan in the coming months. 
Sincerely, 
The Enzai tea m 
3 


