PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-hhaq-cwf1
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2120
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
I see this and all I can say is who does this benefit. It surely does not benefit the average person. Anything they create or idea they have is
now no longer theirs it's the AIs and the tech who created it. 
Who profits from  this? It surely isn't again the average person. Anything created digitally or posted online m eans the AI can just take it at
anytim e with no warning or prom pt from  the user they are doing so. They won't ever be given a cent for their tim e, hard work or passion
that went into their project while the tech com pany that took it can profit freely off of it. That's not right. We know that's not right. 
I am  sorry but when I see this all I can think of is those that have to balance a 9-5, barely able to afford rent and taking risks out there to
create som e beautiful things in the world to try to m ake a nam e for them selves, to try to crawl their way out of what m ay have been an
endless cycle of failures. A little hope to m aybe have som ething out there that the world will see.
And then I see this being the very foot to stom p on all of it. To m ock and ridicule to m ostly say they don't m atter and they never will. That
only the strong and survive. That only those with m oney can own anything even our own soul.
So if you pass this. Why even bother to do anything in life? It'll a very clear statem ent that those that lack wealth should just work forever
in factories until the day we die. Any creativity we have belongs to the wealthy and only the wealthy.
So go ahead. Prove it. Prove that we are not the land of the free and the land of opportunity. We are just the land of 'It's just business'


