PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-x9oy-m 7eh
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4287
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Artificial intelligence in its current form is a wasteful solution in search of a prob lem. Microso ft wanted to reopen a nuclear reactor j ust to 
power their AI farms, what abo ut the American peop le that could use that power for their homes? We used to have search e ngines that 
showed us what we were looking for, now Google and every other search en gine are pol luted with AI generated misinformation and 
it wastes my time and pisses me off. Literally what has AI done to improve the lives of the American people so far? Jack s&^% 
that's what. It's  only made our lives more inconvenient, disrupted tech and art jobs on ly to beg for the workers to come back once 
their managers real ized how bad the AI was at replaci ng their human workers.
The blatant disregard for cop yright law expressed by AI propo nents is insulting, what makes t hem abo ve the law? There is no legitimate 
reason for AI companies to be ab le to use material without permission, the pro gress a nd pro fits they've made so far is on t he backs of  
artists, writers, a nd engineers t hat they've stolen from. The output of generative AI is by de finition der ivative of the data t hat the model is 
trained on, there can be no new ideas generated by t hese pro grams. It o nly reinforces b iases t hat unconsciously get transferred from t he 
human pro grammers and the training data t hey select. 
These AI bros are con men, just like the crypto bros be fore them. These tec hnologies are wasteful and only serve to be nefit the handful of 
people developing it at the expense of e verybody e lse.


