PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-k53u-et4o
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2311
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Patrick Brand 
General Comment
I hum bly request that the AI Action Plan should not tram ple on existing copyright, tradem ark, and patent law; artists, scientists, authors,
engineers, film  workers, gam e developers (of which I am  one), painters, m usicians, and others all depend on these im plem ented system s in
order to guarantee our livelihoods. Since the establishm ent of our country, these groups have all operated under the assum ption that their
creations and inventions were their property. This understanding has underpinned m uch Am erican success in the arts and sciences and has
incentivized new creations that keep us ahead of the com petition culturally and technologically. 
Vultures such as OpenAI and Google do not keep us ahead. By throwing existing law to the wolves, you are erasing the incentive
structure for creators to keep creating. This is a short-term  strategy that will only destroy Am erican culture and science in the long-term .
What will result, perhaps in years, perhaps on the scale of decades, is a disgusting Ouroboros feeding on itself, never introducing new
ideas, never innovating -- the definition of stagnation. 
Do you truly wish this for our country? To shoot oneself in the foot for short-term  and fleeting gains? If the prim ary concern is com petition
with China, and the problem  is China's disregard for copyright, the solution is not to sink to their level. The solution is to tariff them  and cut
off trade until they com ply with Am erican copyright law, and force them  to rise to our level. This can be accom plished with trade
agreem ents and foreign policy.
Please be wise and please m ake the right decision here. Otherwise, Am erican creators will gladly m ove to the European Union where
their inventions, creations, and rights are respected and protected.


