PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-yone-yb0e
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5206
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Artificial intelligence developm ent should not be allowed to train off of copyrighted content without explicit consent of owner (and the
owner m ust be given free will in the choice). It is especially so if AI com panies and organizations profit off of it and receive funding to do
it. This so-called “freedom  of intelligence” underm ines the “freedom  of creative independence”. Which of those created the objects,
m ovem ents, inventions, m edicines, concepts, stories, software, and so m uch m ore that still im pact and guide us today? Will an
am algam ation of data save us, or the ingenuity of individuals? How com e AI even exists today? Raw hum an intelligence, not data
generated from  a m achine.
Allowing AI com panies to source their training data off of copyrighted m aterial destroys our Am erican value of individuality and creativity.
Copyright was instilled to prom ote the legendary Am erican entrepreneurial spirit, to keep people constantly creating som ething new,
pushing the boundaries of the known into the unknown. If AI gets a pass from  all the copyright laws, it underm ines that core value. In this
pursuit of power, it will take away individuality, ownership, and punish creativity. All because the AI com panies want to be better than
com petitors. 
We, the com m on folk, didn’t ask for this. We absolutely didn’t ask for this. We were force fed all this artificial intelligence in all of our
digital lives by com panies against our interests in the nam e of profit and pleasing stakeholders. Now these com panies are begging the
governm ent to take our data, our creations, our written thoughts, our stories, our passions, our photos, our digital lives, in the nam e of
“national security”? We do not want this.
This is essentially plagiarism . Taking content that they do not own and do not credit in the slightest and use it for profit. Even if they use it
for “the greater good” and m ake it non-profit, it doesn’t m ake it legal nor m orally right. This is worse than im m inent dom ain. If we can
punish both children and well known scholars for using m aterial that they do not credit, why do these com panies get free rein?
If the national security is under threat because AI com panies can’t fill up their databases with inform ation that doesn’t belong to them , then
perhaps it is the Am erican intelligence that is lowering. If we m ust solely rely on a program  algorithm  with a high fail and hallucination rate
to save us, who are we? AI isn’t a need, it is a m ere tool. Do not let this tool tell you it’s worth it all. For all we m ay know, this m ay very
well be a m arketing ploy of technological elites. Besides, who truly benefits it from  all? Not we the people, that’s for certain. We are no
longer custom ers or citizens. We have been reduced to data.
We do not want this.


