PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-vid6-bocn
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3588
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Judy Sch midt 
General Comment
We should not want to be "dom inant" in the field of AI. As it stands, AI is not at all intelligent. It uses a m assive am ount of electricity and
com puting resources to steal data that it has been fed, often without perm ission and against copyright law, which it then spits out as a "best
guess" and any of that data that it has been fed can itself be wrong or m ade wrong by the software. It m ay look okay at first, but even
m inim al inspection turns up all sorts of oddities and outright wrongness.
I encountered an "AI" custom er service "agent" on a website the other day, and it said that it understood how I felt and that's sim ply a lie.
It can't understand em otions. It can't em pathize. I have no idea if what it told m e was right. I filled out the form  at the end letting the
com pany know that I hated it, and wished it was any real person, even som eone hired offshore.
Personally, as an artist, I also find it abhorrent and unethical that som e want to use AI to replace hum ans for creating art, especially when
it stole all our art to m ake its algorithm  in the first place. There can be no novelty and no soul in anything an AI outputs. It's a blender that
can only output what it's already seen before.
The only thing we should dom inate about AI is regulating it and m aking sure it is only used for the few things that it is both actually a useful
tool for using processes that were ethical. The last thing we need is to be slaves to m achines that just barely function and need constant
corrective attention, even m ore than sim ply having a hum an do it in the first place.


