PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2paf-1zwa
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8505
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
The developm ent of generative artificial intelligence (GAI) is inherently antithetical to the developm ent of equal opportunities am ong the
developing world and within the United States as we see it today. GAI is developed upon the backs of m illions of people's labor in fields
from  m edical research to creative writing and the way forward for Am erica has always been through the passion and labor we share in
together for the betterm ent of the society we exist within; destroying copyright law in favor of the staggeringly few billionaires trying to
ravenously devour the work of m illions of people's work to create an ineffective, laughably inadequate facsim ile of the hum an expression is
not where Am erica should be headed or what we should stand to represent. This country deserves better uses of our taxes than the
developm ent of this bastardization of hum anity. The GAI developm ent and im plem entation is petering out in the zeitgeist as we see the
lim itations of this technology coupled with the sunk cost fallacy of the venture capitalist class. They need the governm ent to bail them  out
for a technology that is obsolete when held in com parison to the hum an effort of generations before us and the generations of the future.
Don't bail the VC class out for their lackluster tech. Don't kill copyright in the US. Save the working class's ownership of their hard-fought
earnings. OpenAI and every other LLM does not get ultim ate authority over the m atter of copyright despite what Sam  Altm an m ay whine
about. They do not get the right to steal people's work. Save copyright law. Stop AI. No AI bailouts.


