PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 13, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 87-km 1d-m uyc
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1190
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Sydney Savatt
Em ail:  
General Comment
Hello, My nam e is Sydney Savatt, and I am  a senior at Avonworth High School and a soon-to-be graduate. For the past 2 m onths, I have
been researching and studying the im pact of Generative AI in College Sports Recruiting during m y AI and Ethics course. From  the
research I have conducted, I believe that the current adm inistration's viewpoint on AI regulation, which em phasizes careful consideration
of risks while encouraging innovation, is beneficial for society by prom oting responsible innovation and reducing potential risks. Many have
claim ed that it can be a threat to hum an-replacem ent and m ore specifically in m y research, it can take away the recruit-coach connection.
By replacing a coach recruiting a player with an AI tool, the process would rely heavily on statistics rather than character and leadership
abilities. While som e express concerns that AI could replace hum an recruiters, potentially dim inishing the im portance of character and
leadership in player selection, I truly believe that the use of AI is far from  these theories and has m ore of a beneficial im pact on society
when used as a resource, as JD Vance has suggested. AI through film  and highlight-creating apps (Gam echanger/HUDL) has played a
significant role in helping players get noticed by college coaches through its ability to generate a highlight film  for a player solely based on
gam e film . Players can use these videos created by Artificial Intelligence to send to a coach, which is a crucial first step in getting their foot
in the door. AI has been a huge part of m any players' success in getting recruited, including m y own, where m y highlight video I created
using AI was able to catch the eye of a coach and eventually land m e a Division 1 softball scholarship. This experience shows that if we
find a good balance with AI, where we encourage it but also consider ethical concerns, it can help people and give them  chances they
m ight not have had otherwise. If we focus on sm artly using AI, it can open up opportunities and m ake things better, instead of just
replacing what we already have. And that's kind of what our governm ent is trying to do – push for progress, but also m ake sure we're
protected.


