PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2nv5-wpim
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8760
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Esther Lee
Em ail:  
General Comment
I am  extrem ely against big tech com panies stealing copyrighted work and threatening the livelihoods of Am erican citizens across the
country. These AI system s wouldn’t even exist without the unethical data-scraping done by Microsoft and Google.
We have copyright laws for a reason—to protect creatives and their creations. We own our creations, not the big com panies stealing and
profiting off our labor! It is im perative that we have regulations on AI, but firstly, we cannot m ake exceptions for corporations vying to
rewrite copyright law in their favor.
OpenAI is not considering the Am erican people. They are fully willing to crush sm all businesses and jeopardize the artists, program m ers,
and inventors without whom  big tech would not exist. AI is also m assively over-hyped, and they are scram bling for any reason to continue
stealing from  the Am erican public, because it is no longer viable if they can’t train on OUR data for free. Even they know that AI has no
future in the US if they don’t m ake up reasons to use it (ie: national security).
What I want is transparency, the disclosure of m aterial used in AI datasets, and the ability to consent to AI training. A hidden “opt-out”
button is not enough—the default selection should be opt-in, NOT opt-out.
I am  sincerely asking that you take into account the concerns of individual citizens. Big tech will absolutely be using AI to replace real,
working em ployees in order to m axim ize their profits, all while stealing copyrighted works to train their datasets. Granting OpenAI
im m unity from  lawsuits regarding copyright infringem ent would be sim ply unthinkable.
Thank you for your tim e.
Attachments
AI_Statem ent


March 15, 2025
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the 
Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am extremely against big tech companies stealing copyrighted work and 
threatening the livelihoods of American citizens across the country. These 
AI systems wouldn’t even exist without the unethical data-scraping done by 
Microsoft and Google.
We have copyright laws for a reason—to protect creatives and their 
creations. We own our creations, not the big companies stealing and 
profiting off our labor! It is imperative that we have regulations on AI, but 
firstly, we cannot make exceptions for corporations vying to rewrite 
copyright law in their favor.
OpenAI is not considering the American people. They are fully willing to 
crush small businesses and jeopardize the artists, programmers, and 
inventors without whom big tech would not exist. AI is also massively over-
hyped, and they are scrambling for any reason to continue stealing from 
the American public, because it is no longer viable if they can’t train on 
OUR data for free. Even they know that AI has no future in the US if they 
don’t make up reasons to use it (ie: national security).
What I want is transparency, the disclosure of material used in AI datasets, 
and the ability to consent to AI training. A hidden “opt-out” button is not 
enough—the default selection should be opt-in, NOT opt-out.
I am sincerely asking that you take into account the concerns of individual 
citizens. Big tech will absolutely be using AI to replace real, working 
employees in order to maximize their profits, all while stealing copyrighted 
works to train their datasets. Granting OpenAI immunity from lawsuits 
regarding copyright infringement would be simply unthinkable.
Thank you for your time.


