PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-pus8-swt5
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2748
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: William Guido 
General Comment
Dearest reader,
I have followed the developm ent of AI (specifically, generative AI m odels) since the first ever public release of Dal-E. At first, the concept
of generative AI as a whole, a process that could aid in hum an creation was groundbreaking. I and m any in the field of technology were
very interested in what potential paths this could open for not only those interested in com puter science, but artists and m usicians as well.
At first, I used these generative AI m odels to create inspirations for cityscapes, skylines, etc. It m ade the creative process fun and
inspired, but that all changed as generative AI becam e m ore widespread. We saw AI turn from  a sim ple tool for inspiration, to a force that
elim inated the jobs of m illions of artists, both professional and aspiring, and flooded not only the online, but the physical world with "art"
that lacked the very essence of hum an creativity and labor as a whole. Art is what m akes us, as a species, unique. When we look at past
cultures, one of the biggest ways that we see their existence is through their art. Consider the ancient Rom an and Greek em pires, with
paintings and books that laid the groundwork for our current m ovies, film s, and m ore. Without art, hum anity isn't so hum an. And that is
what currently is happening. I'd estim ate that about a quarter of the internet, its videos, im ages, and texts, are generated entirely from  AI.
When we have that big of an influence, who knows what could happen if the sm allest m istake happens in relation to the "thought-process"
of AI (which, as a rem inder, we haven't the slightest clue of how it m ight work. See the "Black Box" effect). As a 17 year old perusing a
career in cybersecurity, m y, and m any other's perception of the future is bleak. It is m ore than a possibility that, if it continues on its current
trajectory, AI will steal jobs from  not only art m ajors, but from  com puter science, journalist, English, architecture, m usic, and m ath m ajors
as well. I beg you to consider this; if tariffs are being placed to increase jobs and prevent external im portation, AI should be restricted as
well. If AI continues to grow, eventually it will consum e all jobs, leaving Am erica, and possibly the rest of the world, in a state of poverty
with a few select elites, prim arily those behind gen AI, at the top. If we continue to create flawless, intelligent beings, what will happen to
those who have flaws? What will happen to the entire, hum an race. We are going beyond technology at this point. Please, listen to the
people of Am erica. We are scared, concerned for not only our future, but the future of hum anity itself. And there is nothing we can do but
hope and pray.


