PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0hpn-25wt
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6653
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Michael Kranz   
Email: 
General Comment
As a tax-paying US citizen and software engineer with over two decades in the field, I am  com pelled to register m y sincere and severe
objections to this plan. The sort of "AI" about which this plan is concerned is, prim arily, plagiarism  engines with no capacity to construct
an understanding of the underlying inform ation they ingest. This is why, for instance, the Colum bia Journalism  Review recently found that,
of the m ost popular "AI"-powered search tools, all had profoundly high error rates when it cam e to accuracy in their data, while they also
produced very plausible-sounding and confident wrong answers. (https://www.cjr.org/tow_center/we-com pared-eight-ai-search-engines-
theyre-all-bad-at-citing-news.php) Rushing into investing in these tools in the way this policy describes not only skips over the fundam ental
category errors in the way they are being m arketed, but also underm ines existing productive m arkets in the US econom y. Sam  Altm an, the
CEO of OpenAI, recently stated that "it would be im possible to train today’s leading AI m odels without using copyrighted m aterials,"
m aking it clear that this plan would be used to violate copyrights that are essential to protecting actual innovators in fields ranging from
m athem atics and sciences to engineering to journalism  to arts and literature.
(https://com m ittees.parliam ent.uk/writtenevidence/126981/pdf/) Already, these tools have done great dam age to industries by replacing
com petence labor force with tools that are far inferior or wholly incapable of producing the kind of work for which they are being sold.
For exam ple, just two years ago, CNET replaced their financial news desk with "AI," which went on to pen articles with glaring, sim ple,
and crucial errors. (https://futurism .com /cnet-ai-errors) There are other issues with the "AI" industry, as well, such as the environm ental
im pact, which, given the adm inistration's lack of concern for global clim ate change, m ay not be a m ajor issue in this deliberation.
(https://www.instituteforenergyresearch.org/clim ate-change/big-corporations-are-abandoning-their-clim ate-com m itm ents/) That said, this
increased em issions go hand-in-hand with a trem endous energy dem and, m aking it harder for the US to becom e independent of foreign
sources of fossil fuels. Lifting regulations on this industry in general further com m its us to this unreliable technology without concern for the
wide-ranging negative im pacts on the US econom y, workforce, and energy independence.
Thank you for your consideration and take care,


