PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-xm 40-5qsd
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4507
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Owen Dennis
General Comment
I have had m y work used in AI outputs. They used m y writing for television to do it. Specifically they took the subtitles of children's
television shows that I worked on. This m eans they took the writing I've created, the writing that sounds the m ost naturalistic and like how
a real person would talk, and fed it into their m achines without m y perm ission. This was not som ething that existed when I wrote those
shows, so of course it was never covered in any contracts or anything.
What this also m eans is that every tim e a bot online is pretending to be a norm al person in support of nazis, hate speech, KKK, or other
extrem e views I've never once shared in m y life, that's based on m y writing that I never gave them . 
Phone scam m ers trying to take advantage of the elderly. Billion dollar corporations using a chatbot to stall you from  cutting your cable bill.
From  the tiniest aggressions in our lives to the largest, they've all taken from  m y work to m ake them selves sound like norm al hum an
beings.
I've spent years of m y life adding art to the world, m ostly for children. That art is based on m y life and experiences and thoughts. It's so
intensely personal, and I would never give those rights and that art away to be ingested by a robot and used by som e random  person, be
they som eone I agree with or not, however they see fit. It's an incredibly irresponsible force to release on the world, and incredibly cruel
to those of use who created the original works.
I have no way to fight this. None. The only way this can be stopped is if you stop it.
Please stop this. There are so m any people like m e. Please stop this!
-Owen Dennis


