PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-xzan-s9o8
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1755
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I am  no law m aker, but if I was to advise anyone on how to solve this (at least for cases of visual art) through legislation, I think the
following set of rules would get us a fair bit of the way there:
1. Com m ercial AI m odels m ust m aintain a public database of every individual im age it has scraped, and who created them .
This m ight sound like hard work for the com panies producing the AI m odels, but I’m  pretty sure they have this data. How else would they
be able to m im ic a particular artist’s style so well when prom pted for it?
There is also the fact that we know Midjourney probably has a database like this already, due to the list of scraped artists that was leaked
last year.
2. Every AI generated im age should keep a record in its m etadata, of which artists works and how big of a percentage, were used as
references for the generated im age.
Any com m ercial usage of the im age m ust also require this m etadata to stay intact. This will of course require som e cooperation from
actors like Corel and Adobe, to m ake sure that saving im ages after working on them  with art-tools retains this m eta-data, but this is still a
viable endeavor to pursue.
3. Artists whose work and style is being used in a com m ercial im age should receive a viable royalty paym ent.
Organizations sim ilar to the ones we already have in the recording industry, should be responsible for collecting royalties from  use of these
im ages based on their m etadata, and distributing these royalties to the artists.
This will of course also require cooperation from  a bunch of com m ercial actors, and require artists to unionize. In addition, a working
fram ework for the size of royalty paym ents m ust be put in place. But this will create new revenue stream s for artists, and also jobs for
people in the collection and distribution com panies.


