PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-m jf3-i6m 4
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2499
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Heiko Drengenberg  
General Comment
March 15, 2025
Heiko Drengenberg
Artist
Burbank, CA
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am  an Am erican working in the entertainm ent industry. I have worked hard for decades to develop the skills and knowledge to m ake a
decent living and support m y fam ily – until recently.
The AI system s m ade by Big Tech com panies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy thousands of Am erican livelihoods
with their recent dem and to create special carve outs in copyright law.
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. My unique work, and the work of hundreds of thousands of
other everyday Am erican creators was taken and fed into these AI system s without our consent or any com pensation. They ingest our
work, reassem ble it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly com peting with us and cutting us out of the m arketplace.
Now these Big Tech com panies are asking this adm inistration to create exceptions and loopholes to m ake this practice of stealing
Am erican creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a m achine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it
is som ehow suddenly “fair use”. 
They seem  to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim
that if this adm inistration does not allow them  to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle Am erican innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of Am erican copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the Am erican people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the
incentive to create? If everyday Am ericans create a new innovative piece of com puter code, a new visual design, or a new piece of m usic
only to have it im m ediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly m ake a living
doing these things?
Want to protect Am erican innovation? Protect Am erican creators. Do not create new copyright exem ptions that allow Big Tech
com panies to exploit and steal from  creators and everyday Am ericans without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency.
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech com panies, but rather on ensuring a fair
m arketplace with com petition:


First, the governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, so that we can decide when and where
our work is used by AI system s.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is
preserved. Our work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just
Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their
training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
I am  not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am  consistently im pressed by the capabilities of these AI system s, and find them  incredibly useful for
m any things. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Am ericans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting
copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to com m ent on these im portant issues.
Attachments
Public Com m ent 031525


March 15, 2025
Heiko Drengenberg
Artist
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artiﬁcial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am an American working in the entertainment industry. I have worked hard for years to 
develop the skills and knowledge to build my business, and have been lucky enough to make a 
decent living and support my family – until recentl y.
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to 
destroy thousands of American livelihoods with their recent demand to create special carve 
outs in copyright law. 
AI systems can only be produced by ﬁrst training on work made by people. My unique work, 
and the work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators was taken and fed 
into these AI systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest our work, 
reassemble it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly competing with us and cutting us 
out of the marketplace.
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal 
precedent. They are suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it 
is somehow suddenly “fair use”. 
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to 
rewrite the law in this wa y, it will stiﬂe American innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite eﬀect. The purpose of American copyright law is to protect 
the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be 
stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to cr eate? If everyday Americans create a 
new innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to 
have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the ﬁrst place? 
How will we possibly make a living doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday 
Americans without permission, compensation, or transparenc y.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big 
Tech companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition: 
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give eﬀective 
consent, so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the 
incentive to create for small businesses is pr eserved. Our work has immense economic value, 
so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech.


Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, requiring 
them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI systems, and ﬁnd them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacriﬁce the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


