PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-jy8e-hqic
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2325
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Wireless Infrastructure Association (WIA)
General Comment
Please find attached the com m ents of the Wireless Infrastructure Association ("WIA")
Attachments
WIA Com m ents in AI Action Plan (03.15.25)


Before the  
NETWORKING AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND 
DEVELOPMENT NATIONAL COORDINATION OFFICE,  
NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
In the Matter of  
Reques t for Information on the 
Development of an Artificial Intelligence 
Action Plan ) ) ) ) ) ) 
NSF-0001-3479  
COMMENTS OF THE WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE ASSOCIATION1 
The Wireless Infrastructure Association (“WIA”)2 submits these comments in response to 
the National Science Foundation’s (“NSF”) Request for information on developing an Action Plan 
to sustain and enhance America’s  Artificial Intelligence (“AI”) landscape.3  WIA  appreciates the 
Administration ’s support of the critical AI ecosystem  and this opportunity to provide the unique 
insights of the wireless infrastructure industry in development of the Action Plan.  Securing and 
maintaining the United States ’ position as a leader in AI will require a holistic approach that 
considers the needed inputs at the physical and information layers along with support of the outputs 
to ensure new AI tools can be effectively leveraged.  These comments focus on the importance of 
support ing and maintaini ng the needed infrastructure to enable advancements in the AI landscape, 
1 This document is approved for public dissemination.   The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information.   Document contents may be  reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan 
and associated documents without attribution. 
2 WIA  represents the businesses that build, develop, own, and operate the nation’s wireless infrastructure. WIA 
advocates for the widespread, responsible deployment of wireless infrastructure to enable connectivity everywhere.  
3 Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan , 90 Fed. Reg. 9088, Request for Information, NAT’L. 
SCIENCE FOUNDATION  (Feb. 6, 2025) [ AI RFI]. 


including supporting the deployment of compute power —both at the network core and edge —
along with improving access to fixed and mobile broadband. 
It is paramount that the Administration consider the infrastructure needs of current and 
future AI applications.  While significant attention is being paid to the various software and models 
being used to develop these tools, these advancements are ultimately enabled by  the physical 
infrastructure ; particularly data centers as well as communications network s.  In order to achieve 
a robust and successful AI ecosystem, the Administration should consider how its policies can support infrastructure deployment .  In the immediate term, the Administration should encourage 
Congress to ac t to enable infrastructure deployment by reinstating the Federal Communications 
Commission’s (“FCC”) authority to conduct spectrum auctions and enact meaningful permitting reform as contemplated last Congress in the American Broadband Deployment Act.
4 
I. Physical Infrastructure Plays a Critical Role in the AI Ecosystem .
AI applications promise to be transformative for nearly every industry, but to ensure the
widespread use and availability of these a pplications there needs to also be sufficient 
infrastructure.  For example, data centers are needed to provide sufficient computing power and 
data storage for training and maintaining models, while  fixed and mobile  broadband networks 
enable access and functionality  for these tools .  Accordingly, the Action Plan being developed 
should be sure to promote policies that ensure  the predictable, proportionate, and timely 
deployment of this infrastructure. 
A. Various Data Center Deployments are Needed to Realize the Potential of AI.
Data centers of all types will be necessary to train , support, and utilize AI models and tools.
Particularly in our increasingly interconnected world, on demand access to data and computing 
4 H.R. 3557, 118th Cong. (2023).  


powe r are key considerations for businesses and consumers.5  Data centers are not, however, 
monolithic.  Generally, they are divided into three classes based on their size and application.  The 
largest centers, called hyperscalers, are usually geared towards a single application such as 
supporting large digital platforms or training and developing new data applications like AI/M L 
models.6  The next tier can also be large in size but is operated as a neutral host, leasing out space 
and resources to multiple customers.7  These colocation data centers allow operations to utilize 
cloud and virtualized services without incurring the high cost of building and operating a data center, creating economic and environmental efficiencies.  Colocation data centers house the computi ng infrastructure for a wide range of America’s business and government interests and 
allow valuable interconnection between tenants providing secure and low -latency data transfers.
8  
The next tier, edge data centers, are usually smaller in form but are still impactful for consumers, adding needed capacity and compute power to communications networks that are critical for end user enterprises and consumers to take full advantage of advanced capabilities.
9   
5 Economic, Environmental, and Social Impacts of Data Centers in the US, PWC at 5, 10 (Sept. 2024), 
https://static1.squarespace.com/static/63a4849eab1c756a1d3e97b1/t/65037be19e1dbf4493d54c6e/1694727143662/
DCC- PwC+Impact+Study.pdf  (examining the requirements of businesses to have access to data -intensive services 
that will rely on data center infrastructure).  
6 See Data Center RFC  at 71890.  See also Economic, Environmental, and Social Impacts of Data Centers in the 
United States  at 12 (defining hyperscale data centers as having at least 5,000 servers over 10,000 square feet and 
offering at least 40MW of power capacity).  
7 Ecosystems and Edge: The Data Center as a Transactional Marketplace , DATA CENTER FRONTIER (Sept. 20, 
2021), https://www.datacenterfrontier.com/voices -of-the-industry/article/11427945/ecosystems -and-edge -the-data-
center -as-a-transactional -marketplace (examining the rising interest in data centers that can provide on premise 
interconnection).  
8 See Understanding Data Center Interconnection (providing examples and benefits of different kinds of data center 
interconnection).  See also Colocation , CROWN CASTLE , https://www.crowncastle.com/resources/solution -
sheet/colocation.pdf  (last visited Nov. 4, 2024) (providing benefits and offerings in colocation data centers).  
9 See, e.g. Edge Data Centers: Riding the 5G and IoT W ave at 3-4; Extending Clouds to the Edge: The Case for 
Aggregation Edge Data Centers , AMERICAN TOWER  (July 8, 2024), https://www.americantower.com/us/media -
hub/extending- clouds -edge -case-aggregation -edge -data-centers ; Hillery Hunter and Ed Knapp, American Tower and 


While hyperscale centers have demonstrated immense value in training AI models, 
colocation and edge data centers will become increasingly important in the AI landscape as  
developments move towards reference models and consumers expect  access to these tools  
wherever they go.10  Several next generation AI applications will require improved data processing 
and storage at the edge including autonomous vehicles and AR/VR.11  In order to meet these 
expectations service providers will need to continually improve their networks, including by 
moving resources closer to the end-user.  WIA encourages the administration to promote policies 
in the Action Plan that will support all types of data centers to enable a host of applications. 
B. The Administration Should Support Broadband Connectivity to Support AI 
Development and Adoption  
Similarly, access to high- speed broadband—over both fixed and wireless networks —will 
be table stakes for participating in the AI revolution.  However, millions of Americans still live in 
areas  that lack sufficient broadband access or capacity to fully utilize these tools.12  Smart policies 
IBM to Bring Edge Cloud Services to Enterprises for Enhanced Innovation and Customer Experiences , IBM (Jan. 5, 
2024), https://newsroom.ibm.com/American -Tower -and-IBM -to-Bring -Edge -Cloud- Services -to-Enterprises -for-
Enhanced -Innovation- and-Customer -Experiences ; Edge  Computing, SBA  EDGE, https://www.sbaedge.com/edge -
computing/  (last visited Nov. 4, 2024) (“[Edge Computing] enables organizations to run workloads with very low 
latency, offering a new approach to computing that eliminates the need for internet transit from remote locations to 
the data center. ”).  
10 See, e.g., Extending Clouds to the Edge: The Case for Aggregation Edge Data Centers  (providing that demand for 
new technologies including hybrid cloud computing, AI, and 5G networks has required industry to seek data management and processing solutions at the edge); Dan Jones, AI Workloads 5- Year Plan , F
IERCE NETWORK  (Jun. 
25, 2024) , https://www.fierce -network.com/cloud/ai -workloads -5-year-plan (examining how mature applications of 
AI will require improved edge infrastructure).  
11 See Edge Data Centers: Riding the 5G and IoT Wave  at 3-4 (providing examples of new technologies that will 
rely on edge data centers).   
12 2024 Section 706 Report , GN Docket No. 22 -270, FED. COMM ’CNS. COMM ’N. (rel. March 18, 2024) ( finding 
approximately 7% of Americans lack access to broadband with a significant portion of those unconnected in rural areas).  


and t argeted federal support can help bridge the gap to bring fixed and mobile broadband to all 
communities and deliver the benefits of new technologies. 
Even where connectivity exists, networks must be continually improved to meet growing 
consumer demand.  Broadband traffic has steadily increased for many years  and the introduction 
of AI tools is expected to provide a substantial increase in demand.13  Ubiquitous m obile 
broadband that can support data -intensive applications will also increasingly be important.14  Many 
exciting developments and applications of AI —such as realizing new efficiencies from smart 
sensors and the Internet of Things (“IOT”) to autonomous vehicles on the road and in the sky—
will rely on the high- throughput low -latency mobile networks.  In order to meet this demand 
network providers are continually deploying new infrastructure and improving existing 
deployments.  
To support these efforts, Congress and the Administration must act.  The FCC has been 
without crucial auction authority for over two years now  which Congress must act to restore .  
Spectrum auctions have raised billions of dollars for the U.S. government, spur innovation, and enable new services over wireless networks.  Reinstating this authority and identifying a pipeline 
of spectrum to be made available for commercial uses should be a priority for the current Congress. 
13 Ericsson Mobility Report, Q4 Update  (Feb. 2025), https://www.ericsson.com/492af1/assets/local/reports-
papers/mobility -report/documents/2024/ericsson- mobility -report -q4-2024- update.pdf  (providing ongoing mobile 
traffic demands and projected increases due to AI activity).  
14 AI Workloads 5- Year Plan , (“Over the next five years, [ AI] workloads will start to shift from high -end large 
training systems run by cloud hyperscalers and in data centers to the network edge ”); Edge Data Centers: Riding the 
5G and IoT Wave , PWC at 2 (July 2019), https://www.pwc.com/us/en/industries/capital- projects -
infrastructure/library/assets/pwc -edge -data-centers.pdf  (“The potential of smaller, locally located data centers to 
reduce latency, overcome intermittent connections, and store and compute data close to the end user make them 
ideal for many new, low -latency, data- heavy technologies. They may enable all -new business models, based on 
decentralization and speed.”).  


Addi tionally, Congress has the opportunity to enact common- sense permitting reform as 
proposed in the American Broadband Deployment Act  (“ABDA”) .15  During the last session, 
Congress considered this permitting legislation that would codify key siting reforms adopted by 
the FCC over the past two decades.  Having Congress adopt an effective permitting framework is 
critical to ensure a consistent and certain deployment landscape across the country.  By taking 
these simple steps, Congress can expedite AI deployment and development while bringing connected benefits to millions of Americans.  
II. Conclusion
The AI ecosystem is a vast landscape that relies on —and will significantly impact—a
myriad of industries.  Hardware, software, infrastructure, and  service providers all have important 
roles in the development and implementation of AI technologies.  In crafting the Action Plan, WIA encourages the Administration to consider the breadth of indus tries that will contribute to 
maintaining America’s place at the forefront of innovation.  In particular, policies that incentivize  
investment and deployment of infrastructure today will have outsized benefits in ensuring ubiquitous access to these tools and spur innovation.  
Respectfully submitted, /s/ Stephen Keegan    _   
Stephen  Keegan  
Senior Counsel, Government and Legal Affairs WIA – The Wireless Infrastructure Association  
2111 Wilson Blvd., Suite 210  
Arlington, VA  22201  
March 15, 2025 
15 H.R. 3557, 118th Cong. (2023).  


