PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-fe8o-p424
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1998
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Julia LaFond  
General Comment
Any use or expansion of AI and related technologies m ust be in the interests of the Am erican public. Therefore, the following criteria m ust
be m et:
-Copyright and intellectual property m ust be protected, particularly in the case of sm all and independent creators who have a lim ited
ability to enforce their rights against tech giants. This m eans that anyone seeking to train AI m odels m ust do so only with the express
agreem ent and consent of creators, and creators m ust have the option to revoke the agreem ent and have their creations rem oved from
training m odels. Creators should also get reim bursed for their contributions if they choose to opt in, and should receive attribution
whenever possible. Finally, it m ust be the responsibility of the entity in charge of the AI to determ ine whether they are rightfully using
training data, and m ust face tangible penalties for using pirated m aterial (or other unlawful m aterials)
-More generally, to preserve Am ericans' right to privacy, any training based on data generated by using websites or services (e.g. social
m edia), should be opt-in by default. In addition, any site training on people's data m ust be transparent about what data they collect and
how they use it.
-Any expansion of data centers cannot com prom ise the quality of life of Am ericans. For exam ple, their water use m ust not exacerbate
droughts or deprive Am ericans of clean drinking water, and significant increases in em issions or fossil fuel consum ption are unacceptable,
as they will lower the quality of life of US citizens in both the short and long term .
-Safeguards should also be put in place against labor exploitation of workers in foreign countries: both in the interests of ethics, and to
enforce a baseline of acceptable working conditions that will only benefit Am erican workers.


