PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-jgvb-krlu
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2282
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Joshua Levine
Em ail:  
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
AI RFI Levine


Comment on Request for Information on the Development of an 
Arti ﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
Joshua Levine 
Research Fellow, Foundation for American Innovation. 
March 15, 2025 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the National Science Foundation’s 
(NSF) and the Network and Information Technology Research Development’s 
(NITRD) request for information on the development of the Artiﬁcial Intelligence 
(AI) Action Plan. In my comment, I seek to draw attention to an issue that 
signiﬁcantly impacts AI development: copyright law. This comment is adapted 
from a recent paper I co-authored with Tim Hwang, titled: “Copyright AI, and Great 
Power Competition.”1 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains 
no business-proprietary or conﬁdential information. Document contents may 
be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution. 
1. Introduction
Arti ﬁcial intelligence (AI) has the makings of a general-purpose technology (GPT) 
1 Joshua Levine, Tim Hwang, “Copyright, AI, and Great Power Competition,” Foundation for 
American Innovation, (January, 2025), 
https://www.thefai.org/posts/copyright-ai-and-great-power-competition.  


that could usher in a new industrial revolution.2 As a GPT, AI can be diffused into 
existing processes while creating new products, services, and markets. This has 
signi ﬁcant implications for national soft power (economic strength, technological 
adoption, cultural impact) and hard power (military capabilities, statecraft, 
national sovereignty, and geopolitical competition). 
The most signi ﬁcant geopolitical AI competition is between the United States and 
China. The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) has made clear its desire to change the 
status quo, with AI featuring heavily in such plans.3 In 2018, President Xi Jinping 
stated that China must "ensure that our country marches in the front ranks where 
it comes to theoretical research in this important area of AI, and occupies the high 
ground in critical and AI core technologies."4 In 2023, Xi directed the People's 
Liberation Army to "raise the presence of combat forces in new domains and of 
new qualities."5  
2. Copyright Law as a Threat to U.S. AI Leadership
There is one area of law that could deal a serious blow to U.S. efforts to maintain AI 
leadership: copyright. Nearly all leading AI model developers in the U.S. face 
lawsuits from copyright holders claiming that the inclusion of copyrighted material 
in training materials constitutes infringement. Currently, 39 open copyright cases 
against model developers seek damages and ask for data sets to be destroyed and 
models retrained. If plaintiffs are successful, they would cause irreparable harm to 
5 Jacob Stokes, “Military Arti ﬁcial Intelligence, the People’s Liberation Army, and U.S.-China 
Strategic Competition,” Center for New American Security, February 1, 2024, 
https:/ /www.cnas.org/publications/congressional-testimony/ 
military-arti ﬁcial-intelligence-the-peoples-liberation-army-and-u-s-china-strategic-competition 4 Elisa Kania, Roger Creemers, “Xi Jinping Calls for ‘Healthy Development’ of AI (Translation),” New 
America, November 5, 2018, 
https:/ /www.newamerica.org/cybersecurity-initiative/digichina/blog/xi-jinping-calls-forhealthy-de
velopment-of-ai-translation/. 3 Arthur R. Kroeber, “Unleashing ‘New Quality Productive Forces’: China’s Strategy for 
Technology-Led Growth,” Brookings Institution, June 4, 2024, 
https:/ /www.brookings.edu/articles/unleashing-new-quality-productiveforces-chinas-strategy-for-t
echnology-led-growth/.  2 Nicholas Craft, “Artiﬁcial Intelligence as a General-Purpose Technology: An Historical 
Perspective,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, vol. 37, no. 3 (September 23, 2021), p. 521, 
https:/ /academic.oup.com/oxrep/ article/37/3/521/6374675. 
1 


America's AI sector, with grave implications for America's economy, military 
capabilities, and geopolitical standing. Identifying the threat copyright lawsuits 
pose to American model developers and operationalizing policies to mitigate 
potential harms will be critical to advancing American competitiveness in AI 
development.  
3. The Case for Fair Use in AI Training 
Current "frontier" AI models would not exist without the ability to access and 
analyze vast amounts of data available online. Training large-scale models using 
prevailing scaling techniques requires massive data sets that can provide the 
necessary diversity, complexity, and quality of data.6 The default rule under U.S. 
copyright law is that unauthorized copying of material is actionable infringement. 
However, AI ﬁrms argue that accessing and analyzing such data constitutes fair 
use. 
Fair use is a doctrine intertwined with copyright law for centuries and of ﬁcially 
enshrined in the Copyright Act of 1976.7 It allows for nonpermissive use of 
copyrighted works in a transformative manner as a counterbalance to the limited 
monopoly that copyright holders enjoy. It is seen as a counterbalance to the limited 
monopoly that copyright-holders enjoy over their work to “promote the Progress of 
Science and useful Arts,” the original justi ﬁcation for copyright protection.8 Fair 
use is determined on a case-by-case basis, with judges relying on a four-part test to 
determine whether the use of a copyrighted work qualiﬁes as fair use.9 The four 
aspects considered are: 
1. The purpose and character of the use, including whether such use is of a 
commercial nature or for nonproﬁt educational purposes;  
2. The nature of the copyrighted work; 
3. The amount and substantiality of the portion used in relation to the 
9  Richard Stim, “Measuring Fair Use: The Four Factors,” Stanford University Libraries, accessed 
November 5, 2024, https:/ /fairuse.stanford.edu/overview/fair-use/four-factors/. 8U.S. Const. art. I, § 8, cl. 8.  7  Copyright Act of 1976, 17 U.S.C. § 107 (1976). 6  Lukas Budach et al., “The Effects of Data Quality on Machine Learning Performance,” ArXiv, 
(November 9, 2022), https:/ /arxiv.org/abs/2207.14529. 
2 


copyrighted work as a whole; and 
4.The effect of the use upon the potential market for or value of the
copyrighted work.
The plaintiffs in the various lawsuits are a mix of creatives, such as comedians and 
artists, and corporate rights-holders, such as the New York Times and Getty 
Images.10 While each complaint is unique, all the cases assert that the use of 
copyrighted works without permission or payment is a willful infringement of 
copyright law, and that model developers must pay signiﬁcant ﬁnes, destroy any 
models that were trained on such materials, and commit to not using copyrighted 
data in training in the future.  
It is worth noting that this response is not new in some respects. Responses to new 
technologies are often severe, especially when incumbents and politically 
connected groups face disruptive or uncertain futures.11 In the early 2000s, 
ﬁle-sharing platform Napster was sued by record labels for its role in the 
distribution of pirated music.12 This litigation ultimately bankrupted the company 
and halted the use of ﬁle-sharing broadly. Not content with disrupting the use of 
the technology alone, the Recording Industry Association of America began suing 
individuals who shared or downloaded music outside ofﬁcial channels.13 
Distortion, fear mongering, and attempts to halt innovation to preserve their place 
in the market have been hallmarks of such incumbents, making a clear-eyed and 
nuanced analysis all the more critical in the case of AI training and copyright.14 
There are strong arguments for protecting under fair use the use of copyrighted 
material in training, and a line of jurisprudence stretching back more than 50 
14 See Louis Anslow, “Pessimists Archive,” accessed Dec. 5, 2024, https:/ /pessimistsarchive.org/, 
especially for “novels,” “radio,” and “television.” 13 David Kravets, “Copyright Lawsuits Plummet in Aftermath of RIAA Campaign.” Wired, May 18, 
2010, https:/ /www. wired.com/2010/05/riaa-bump/. 12 A&M Records, Inc. v. Napster, Inc., No. 239 F.3d 1004 (9th Cir. 2001), 
https:/ /www.copyright.gov/fair-use/ summaries/a&mrecords-napster-9thcir2001.pdf. 11  Pamela Samuelson, “Fair Use Defenses in Disruptive Technology Cases,” UCLA Law Review, 
Forthcoming, November 28, 2023, https:/ /papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4631726. 10 “Master List of Lawsuits v. AI, ChatGPT, OpenAI, Microsoft, Meta, Midjourney & Other AI Cos,” 
ChatGPT is Eating the World, accessed on March 14, 2025, 
https:/ /chatgptiseatingtheworld.com/2024/08/27/master-list-o ﬂawsuits-v-ai-chatgpt-openai-micro
soft-meta-midjourney-other-ai-cos/. 
3 


years can be instructive on the questions being raised today.  
Three key themes from successful fair use defenses apply to AI training: 
1. Fair use allows people to share information, helping to uncover new insights 
and uses.15 
2. Fair use protects the right to learn and iterate upon prevailing ideas.16 
3. Fair use ensures a counterweight to the monopoly on ideas that copyright 
creates.17 
The common threads among these cases are the expansion of access to 
information, an opportunity to create new products or services, and the freedom to 
learn and build upon existing knowledge to create anew. When considering the 
promises of AI diffusion and improvement and how the law should treat this 
budding technology, these ideas should be front of mind.  
Current copyright lawsuits, however, threaten such promises and risk stunting AI 
progress in the United States and boosting the standing and competitiveness of the 
Chinese AI apparatus.  
4. Costs if U.S. Falls Behind in AI Development 
4.1 Direct Costs from Litigation 
Copyright infringement ﬁnes can range from $750 to $30,000 per infringement, 
with maximum penalties of $150,000 for willful infringement.18 Given the size of 
AI training datasets, successful lawsuits could result in ﬁnes totaling billions or 
18  Copyright Act of 1976, 17 U.S.C. § 107, ch. 5 (1976). 17 Sony Corp. of Am. v. Universal City Studios, Inc., 464 U.S. 417 (1984), 
https:/ /www.copyright.gov/fair-use/ summaries/sonycorp-universal-1984.pdf. 16 Sega Enters. Ltd. v. Accolade, Inc., 977 F.2d 1510 (9th Cir. 1992), 
https:/ /copyright.gov/fair-use/summaries/ segaenters-accolade-9thcir1992.pdf. 15  Pamela Samuelson, “Fair Use Defenses in Disruptive Technology Cases,” UCLA Law Review, 
Forthcoming, November 28, 2023, https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4631726; 
Authors Guild, Inc. v. Google Inc., No. 13-4829-cv (2d Cir. Oct. 16, 2015), 
https:/ /www.copyright.gov/fair-use/ summaries/authorsguild-google-2dcir2015.pdf. 
4 


even trillions of dollars, potentially bankrupting leading AI model developers.19 
Beyond the monetary ﬁnes, some plaintiffs are asking courts to require the 
re-training or destruction of AI models whose training data included copyrighted 
works.20  
4.2 Ripple Effects Across the AI Stack 
The second-order effects of adverse judgments would impact the entire AI stack, 
including: 
● Hardware: Reduced demand for high-performance semiconductors and 
custom computing hardware, undermining U.S. investments in 
semiconductor production.21 
● Data Centers: Diminished investment in data center infrastructure, which 
currently exceeds $400 billion annually.22 
● Applications: Sti ﬂed innovation in AI applications and startups. In the 
private sector, leading startup accelerator Y Combinator has reported that 
more than seventy-ﬁve percent of its summer cohort were focusing on AI 
models and tools, and ﬁfty percent of its most recent cohort relied on AI 
22Matt Ashare, “Data Center Spending Skyrockets as Cloud Building Rush Accelerates,” CIO Dive, 
September 30, 2024, 
https:/ /www.ciodive.com/news/cloud-data-center-hyperscale-spending-spree-generative-ai/72846
9/ 21Dick Weisinger,” Custom Silicon: How Tech Companies are Designing Their Own Chips,” Formtek, 
December 19, 2023, 
https:/ /formtek.com/blog/custom-silicon-how-tech-companies-are-designing-their-own-chips/; 
“FACT SHEET: CHIPS and Science Act Will Lower Costs, Create Jobs, Strengthen Supply Chains, and 
Counter China,” The White House, August 9, 2022, 
https:/ /www.whitehouse.gov/brieﬁng-room/statementsreleases/2022/08/09/fact-sheet-chips-and-s
cience-act-will-lower-costs-create-jobs-strengthen-supply-chainsand-counter-china/. 20 Getty Images (US), Inc. v. Stability AI, Inc., 1:23-cv-00135, (D. Del.); The New York Times Company 
v. Microsoft Corporation, OpenAI, Inc., 1:23-cv-11195, (S.D. NY); “Books3 AI Training Dataset.” 
AIAAIC, last updated October 2024, 
https:/ /www.aiaaic.org/aiaaic-repository/ai-algorithmic-and-automation-incidents/books3-ai-traini
ngdataset. 19 Pamela Samuelson, “How to Think About Remedies in the Generative AI Copyright Case,” 
Lawfare, February 15, 2024, 
https:/ /www.lawfaremedia.org/article/how-to-think-about-remedies-in-the-generative-ai-copyright
-cases; Joshua Levine, “To Support AI, Defend the Open Internet and Fair Use,” Tech Policy Press, 
October 17, 2024, 
https:/ /www.techpolicy.press/to-support-ai-defend-the-open-internet-and-fair-use/. 
5 


models and tools to support their operations.23  
4.3 Military and National Security Implications 
The Department of Defense (DOD) already procures systems from commercial 
ﬁrms or open-source models and ﬁne-tunes them for military capabilities.24 
Speci ﬁcally, models from Meta and OpenAI are being integrated and deployed to 
support American military and intelligence operations.25 Legal restrictions on AI 
development would inhibit the government from accessing and deploying the 
private sector's most advanced models, putting American military and intelligence 
communities at a disadvantage compared to Chinese counterparts. 
4.4 Opportunity Costs and Free Expression Impact 
Beyond direct investment losses, there are signi ﬁcant opportunity costs in ﬁelds 
poised for AI-driven ef ﬁciency gains, such as drug development, physical 
infrastructure, and transportation. Copyright maximalism could also restrict the 
use of AI tools for individual expression, criticism, and speech. 
5. How Copyright Restrictions Bene ﬁt China
Chinese model developers operate under two sets of rules: strict regulations for 
"public use" within China, and more permissive conditions for research, 
25  Brandi Vincent, “Scale AI Unveils ‘Defense Llama’ Large Language Model for National Security 
Users,” DefenseScoop, November 4, 2024, 
https:/ /defensescoop.com/2024/11/04/scale-ai-unveils-defense-llama-largelanguage-model-llm-na
tional-security-users/; “Anduril Partners with OpenAI to Advance U.S. Arti ﬁcial Intelligence 
Leadership and Protect U.S. and Allied Forces,” Anduril Industries, December 4, 2024, 
https:/ /www.anduril.com/ 
article/anduril-partners-with-openai-to-advance-u-s-artiﬁcial-intelligence-leadership-and-protect
-u-s/.24 Defense Innovation Board, Department of Defense, Aligning Incentives to Drive Faster Tech 
Adoption (2024), 
https:/ /innovation.defense.gov/Portals/63/20240701%20DIB%20Report_Aligning%20Incentives%2
0 PUBLISHED%20STUDY_1.pdf. 23 William Coulman and David Crowther, “Three-Quarters of Founders in the Latest Y Combinator 
Cohort Are Working on AI Startups,” Sherwood, August 23, 2024, 
https:/ /sherwood.news/tech/three-quarters-of-founders-in-thelatest-y-combinator-cohort-are-wor
king-on/.  
6 


enterprise, or industrial uses.26 This dual approach allows China to control 
domestic information while enabling Chinese ﬁrms to compete globally. 
China has exempted model developers from data and content restrictions, 
including copyright limitations, if the model is designed for "enterprise, education 
and research, or industry association." This gives Chinese developers signi ﬁcant 
advantages in leveraging vast amounts of data and an incentive to partner with 
industry and research organizations to protect investment and scale the 
technology.  
Chinese model development is and will continue to support the CCP’s strategic and 
military might. The CCP's expansive surveillance capabilities are being enhanced 
with AI to monitor dissent.27 Chinese ﬁrms are producing innovative products 
combining AI models with data to improve sensors, radar systems, and computer 
vision—all dual-use technologies with both civilian and military applications.28 
If the United States loses its leadership position in AI, China will ﬁll the void, with 
negative consequences domestically and globally. Unlike in China, American AI 
developers do not have to abide by government-imposed speech codes or socialist 
values, and they can choose whether to partner with the state. Allowing Chinese AI 
models to be developed and diffuse more quickly will harm both American soft and 
hard-power.  
6. Policy Recommendations
The legal battles around AI and copyright raise the specter that a domestic, 
commercial squabble of interests might prevent the United States from retaining 
28 Elisa B. Kania, Testimony before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission
Hearing on Trade, Technology, and Military-Civil Fusion, June 7, 2019,
https:/ /s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/ ﬁles.cnas.org/
backgrounds/documents/June-7-Hearing_Panel-1_Elsa-Kania_Chinese-Military-Innovation-in-Art
iﬁcialIntelligence.pdf?mtime=20190617115242&focal=none.27 Mara Hvistendahl, “How China Surveils the World,” MIT Technology Review, August 19, 2020,
https:/ /www. technologyreview.com/2020/08/19/1006455/gtcom-samantha-hoffman-tiktok/.26  Yi Wu, “How to Interpret China’s First Effort to Regulate Generative AI Measures,” China Brie ﬁng, 
July 27, 2023, 
https:/ /www.china-brie ﬁng.com/news/how-to-interpret-chinas- ﬁrst-effort-to-regulate-generative-a
i-measures/.
7 


its edge in the global competition around the technology. The victory of the 
litigants in the many pending lawsuits against AI companies may lead to legal 
regimes that ultimately impose ruinous monetary damages, allow the extraction of 
burdensome settlements, and in extreme cases result in the court-ordered 
destruction of AI models themselves. All would do great harm to the emerging 
market of products and services leveraging the technology.  
Regardless of the outcome, the persistent uncertainty around the legal standing of 
training raises real costs, as well. In all likelihood, pending lawsuits that appear 
likely to set precedent in this area will take years to resolve. Facing this 
uncertainty, leading AI developers may very well choose to rebase their model 
development operations in countries with more favorable environments for 
training. Other nations, such as Japan and Singapore, have explicitly carved out 
exceptions for the training of AI systems, and others could follow suit in an effort to 
capitalize on a sustained period of American inaction.  
The state of the research ﬁeld and the market for AI services is evolving fast 
enough that the United States cannot afford to wait on the slow process of judicial 
policymaking in this area. Properly constituted, copyright can serve not as a threat 
to technological progress and American advantage, but as an asset. I propose four 
immediate policy actions to this end.  
6.1 Congressional Clari ﬁcation of Fair Use 
Congress has the power to settle the copyright status of training immediately. It 
should pass a bill that asserts unequivocally that all forms of training AI systems 
are a fair use, providing these activities with a clear mandate to move forward. 
Such a deﬁnitive approach would: 
●Immediately lower the risk of engaging in model training, encouraging new
entrants to join the market
●Counter the existential risk posed by pending lawsuits against leading
American AI companies
●Allow American AI companies to continue growing toward global dominance
6.2 Secure Training Data for American Industry 
8 


Training data—particularly high-quality training data—is an increasingly scarce 
commodity even as it remains critical for advancing AI capabilities.29 Global 
competitiveness depends not just on access to talent and advanced 
semiconductors, but also on securing the best datasets. 
The U.S. Trade Representative should prioritize bringing the full weight of 
American commercial power to bear on opening up and securing valuable sources 
of training data worldwide for U.S. ﬁrms. This may include: 
●Trade deals that carve out fair use-style exceptions for model training in the
intellectual property frameworks of other nations
●Agreements to obtain exclusive access to valuable datasets in other
countries, including multilingual materials, scientiﬁc corpora, and
multimodal datasets
6.3 Establish the U.S. Bureau of Data Management 
Some of the most valuable untapped datasets for AI advancement exist within the 
government. The formation of a U.S. Bureau of Data Management (BDM) within the 
Department of Commerce could accelerate U.S. leadership in AI. 
The BDM would serve as a dedicated team of regulatory experts and technologists 
tasked with: 
●Identifying and "liberating" valuable government datasets that could be
open-sourced or licensed to AI developers
●Serving as a clearinghouse for archival collections, legal codes, weather data,
and other valuable information
●Gathering feedback from industry about the most valuable datasets to
prioritize
●Working with state and local governments to make their data available for AI
training
6.4 Accelerate Opt-Out Standards 
29 Ilya Sutskever, “Sequence to Sequence: Learning with Neural Networks: What a Decade,” NeurIPS, 
December 13, 2024, https:/ /www.youtube.com/watch?v=1yvBqasHLZs.  
9 


Copyright is being used as a lever for parties seeking to defend the right of 
individuals to "opt-out" of having their creative work used in AI training. While this 
is an important right to preserve, litigation is not the best method to achieve this 
end. 
Clear technical protocols and strong norms can help foster an ecosystem where 
opting out is easily indicated and respected. "Robots.txt," an informal voluntary 
standard that indicates whether a website can be indexed by bots, demonstrates 
this can work at scale.30 
The government should establish a task force bringing together technology 
companies, academic researchers, rights-holders, and technical experts to 
establish and promote a common standard allowing creators to clearly indicate 
when copying for AI training is permitted or not. 
7. Conclusion
Debates around copyright and intellectual property have existed since America's 
founding, evolving to balance incentives for creation with access to information to 
promote progress. AI's emergence has added a new dimension to these questions, 
as it represents a general-purpose technology with the potential to reshape 
economies, militaries, and societies. 
The United States is positioned to lead in AI development and deployment, but 
China is actively working to surpass American capabilities. Copyright lawsuits 
currently present the greatest impediment to American AI progress. To ensure 
continued U.S. leadership, clarity around accessing data and training models 
under the fair use doctrine is paramount. 
The policy recommendations outlined above would provide immediate relief to the 
AI industry while securing America's competitive advantage in this critical 
technology domain. By taking these steps, the United States can maintain its 
technological edge, strengthen national security, and promote economic 
prosperity in the AI era. 30Jo Cameron, “What is a Robots.txt File? Best Practices Robot.txt Syntax,” Moz, updated November 
7, 2024, https:/ / moz.com/learn/seo/robotstxt.  
10 


