PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-ytqc-23yq
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5302
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
In order to assum e this "ai dom inance" would be the destruction of patents and copyrights of individuals and large corporations. Allowing
AI free use of data in use of training without credit to the original individuals or groups involved allows any form  of copyright and patent
infringem ent under the excuse that it was ai sourced.
For exam ple, every day of every year counterfeit and false item s pretending to be the am erican original are becom ing m ore com m on like
fake iphones or brand dessigner goods. Once, the design of a product is placed into the training of an ai. Aspects of original products will
continuously occur in aan infinite num ber of sim ulations with som e becom ing m ore and m ore closer to the original by stolen design due to
AI training prioritizing m im icry and becom ing m ore open access. 
AI is required to first m im ic in its study of any training process which by design is infringem ent of patents and copyrights unless the consent
of the parties used is received. Allowing AI this open freedom  to m im ic free of consent toward patents and infringem ent is opening up the
gateway for abuse by anyone that gains access.
As a m ore relatable exam ple, if Tesla or Trum p organization files a patent for a design and an AI replicates the exact design for an
individual utilizing prom pts until they m ake the exact sam e product, then the individual is allowed free use of m aking a profit of said
product to sell ignoring that patent under the guise of AI production.
To m aintain an ethical AI dom inance would be require consent of use by any involved parties in AI training to prevent AI m im icry from
destroying the product m arket with floods of m im icked styles of goods, products, fashion, arts, or even their own im age like photographs
that no one could claim  ownership of being the original owner over in any form  of court of law. 
To prove m y point to a m ore com ical extent, it would be legally allowed to falsify a video of President Trum p's im age as an active child
sexual predator assaulting a child using AI generation and training without need for the President's approval or consent of his values or
im age in the training of an AI until it becom es realistic and efficient hum an-like m im icry, the goal of AI training.


