PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1i6r-iak0
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7800
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Gray Ginther
Em ail:  
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
protect_US_workers_AI_action_plan


March 15, 2025
From:
Gray Ginther
3D Character Artist
Re: National Science Foundation ’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am an everyday American who works a s a 3D Character Artist in the US video game s industr y. I hold a  
BA in Illustration and have worked hard for years to develop the s kills and knowledge to become a top 
contributor working on AAA ti tles for the game industr y, and have been lucky enough to make a  decent 
living and support my family – until recentl y.
The AI s ystem s made by Big Tech c ompanie s like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten t o destroy the 
value of the art created by thousands of American workers like me with their recent demand to create 
special carve outs in copyright la w.
AI system s c an only be produced by first training o n artwork made by people. M y unique artwor k, and 
the work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creator s was taken and fed into these AI 
systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest o ur work, reassemble it, and then s ell it 
back to our clients – directly competing with us and c utting us out of the marketplace.
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exception s and loopholes to 
make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are s uggesting 
that if a machine ingest s and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow suddenly “fair use ”. 
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who own s it – should 
be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to rewrite the law in 
this wa y, it will stifle American innovation.


Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to protect the 
incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big 
Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new innovative piece of 
computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it immediately stolen by 
Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly make a living doing 
these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday Americans 
without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective consent, so that 
we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the incentive to 
create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic value, so the value generated 
by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, requiring them to 
disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI systems, 
and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds 
of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.


Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


