PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1zs1-ypth
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8202
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Diego Cadena
Em ail:  
General Comment
March 15, 2025
From:
Diego Cade na
Artist and Library Aide
Re: Nat ional Science Fo undation’s Request for Information on t he Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am an e veryday American who owns a small visual des ign business (an art ist business) which ser ves clients. I have worked hard for 
years to de velop the skills and knowledge to b uild my business, b ut now, my skills and intellectual property is threatened..
The AI systems made by Big Tech co mpanies like Ope nAI (Microso ft) and Google threaten to destroy t housands of American small 
businesses like mine with their rece nt demand to create spec ial car ve outs in cop yright law.
AI systems can o nly be prod uced by first tra ining on work made by peop le. My unique work, a nd the work of hundreds of t housands of  
other everyday American creators was taken a nd fed into these AI systems without our consent or a ny compensation. They ingest our 
work, reasse mble it, and then sell it back to o ur clients – d irectly competing with us and cutting us out of the marketp lace.
Now t hese Big Tech co mpanies are ask ing this administration to create e xceptions and loopholes to make this pract ice of stea ling 
American creators’ cop yrighted work legal precede nt. They are s uggesting that if a machine ingests a nd reprod uces cop yrighted work, it 
is somehow suddenly “fair use”. 
They seem to be lieve that anything and everything on t he internet – re gardless of who owns it – should be t heirs for the taking. They claim 
that if this administration does not allow them to re write the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the oppos ite effect. The purpose of American cop yright law is to protect t he incentive to create a nd innovate. 
If we the American peop le do not own our creat ions, and everything we put online will be sto len by Big Tech giants, what will be the 
incentive to create? If e veryday Americans create a new innovative piece of co mputer code, a new visual des ign, or a new piece of music 
only to have it immediately stolen by Google and Microso ft, why bother creat ing it in the first place? How will we poss ibly make a living 
doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new cop yright exemptions that allow Big Tech 
companies to e xploit and steal from creators a nd everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or tra nspare ncy.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator co ntent to Big Tech co mpanies, but rather on e nsuring a fair 
marketp lace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators a nd everyday Americans give effective consent, so t hat we can dec ide when and where


our work is used by AI system s.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is
preserved. Our work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just
Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their
training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
I am  not anti-technology. AI system s can be incredibly useful. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of
Am ericans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to com m ent on these im portant issues.
Attachments
Ani-AI


March 15, 2025
From:
Diego Cadena
Artist and Library Aide
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for In formation o n the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) A ction Plan
I am a n everyday American who owns a small visual design business (an a rtist business) which 
serve s clients. I have worked h ard for ye ars to develop the skills and knowledge to build m y 
business, but now, my skills and intellectual property is threatened..
The AI s ystems made b y Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) a nd Google 
threaten to d estroy thousands of Am erican small businesses li ke m ine wit h their recent 
demand t o create s pecial carve outs in copyright la w.
AI systems can o nly be produced b y first training on work made by people. M y unique wo rk, and 
the wo rk of hundreds of thousands of other e veryday American cr eators was taken and fe d into 
these AI systems without our co nsen t or any compensation. They inge st our work, reassemble 
it, and then se ll it back to o ur clie nts – directly competing with us and cu tting us out of the 
marketplace.
Now these Big Tech companies are a sking this administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to m ake th is practice of stealing A merican cr eators’ copyrighte d work legal precedent. 
They are suggesting th at if a machine in gests and reproduce s copyrighted wo rk, it is somehow 
suddenly “fa ir use”. 
They seem to believe that anything and everything o n the internet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration d oes not allow them to 
rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect . The purpose of American c opyright law is to 
protect t he in centive t o create and innovate. 
If we the American p eople d o not own our creations, and everything we p ut online will be sto len 
by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new 
innovative piece o f computer co de, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it 
immediate ly stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will 
we possibly make a living doing th ese things?


Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and 
everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
●First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective 
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
●Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that 
the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense 
economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original 
creators, not just Big Tech.
●Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, 
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what 
content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology. AI systems can be incredibly useful. But we should not sacrifice the 
hard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting 
copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


