PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3hm 6-gciw
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9162
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: M. B.
General Comment
AI as we know it has been an unchecked tool for theft, corruption, and fraud. The AI pushed by m ajor corporations and fraudulent start-
ups is not AI as it is traditionally known. It’s a m ass of wasteful calculations that relies alm ost entirely on stolen works from  hard working
Am ericans, hard working people from  countries Am erica is allied with, and com panies based in Am erica and allied countries.
The fact that this AI tech can only function by stealing what is NOT licensed for use in another product, especially com peting products,
not only proves it’s faulty and fraudulent tech, but that this is norm alizing selective IP theft. This adm inistration has the opportunity to m ake
history with the biggest crackdown on blatant fraud by enforcing already existing laws on com panies running the m ost public of cons.
However, failing to do so will undoubtedly etch this adm inistration in the annals of history as being as corrupt as those com panies and too
incom petent to tackle even the m ost obvious crim inals.
Bolstering this tech in its current path will not only further dam age the econom y as the goal of the tech is to clearly elim inate jobs. The Jobs
Report is the m ost obvious tell of an adm inistration’s successes, and elim inating m ore jobs will guarantee both m id-term  losses, but also
m assive losses in 2028. If the com panies behind this tech are as innovative as they claim  to be, they will find ways to work with existing
laws—ones they utilize when they benefit them —instead of circum venting them .
If Chinese com panies wish to do business with Am erica and its allies, the goal should be to require them  to obey the sam e laws as the
countries their products are distributed to. If they can’t, a com plete ban on them  should be im m ediately levied. Participating in a global
m arketplace m eans adhering to the laws of the countries a com pany wants to do business in; not dem anding that a country change its laws
to suit the foreign interest.


