PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-onnr-kbya
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2625
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Lucas Laur 
General Comment
Hello. Thank you for giving this opportunity for the public and especially creatives to give their thoughts and concerns on generative AI.
As of now, it has felt like the only ones getting a say are AI tech com panies. I am  a m otion graphics designer based in Arkansas. I have
been a professional m otion designer for 13 years, and prim arily work in television, film , and advertising. I went to school for graphic
design, and then a post-graduate program  for character anim ation, both of which I loved. I m ake m y living entirely off of m y design and
anim ation work, so I am  very interested and concerned with the explosion of AI and the issues surrounding copyright, training data, and
generated outputs. I post both professional and personal artwork routinely to the internet as this is how I find new clients and connect to
other artists in m y field. I have paused posting personal art since finding out about datasets and training for generative AI m odels. I am
very confident that both m y professional and personal artwork have been used to train m odels without m y consent, credit or any form  of
com pensation. Som e of m y designs took m e weeks to m ake, and are the culm ination of years of training and practice. A com pany being
able to scrape those works, train a m odel on them , and release outputs that I then have to com pete against in m y m arket should be illegal.
It feels as if we are being punished for sharing our own work, and trying to further our careers with the efforts of our past. If artists,
writers, actors, and other creatives could have seen into the future, we would have all locked off our work and shared m uch less of
ourselves. But AI seem s to have popped up overnight, and there was no way to future proof for this kind of exploitation. Big tech AI
com panies are trying to m ove as fast as possible to norm alize the m ass appropriation of craft, labor and ingenuity. They are literally using
the fruits of our labor as their secret sauce: a secret sauce they didn't get perm ission to use, and have no plan on com pensating for. It feels
like m y past work has been stolen and weaponized against m y future career.
AI com panies are pushing the false narrative that AI m odels learn the sam e as hum ans, they don't. They don't have the sam e biological
anatom y and lim itations of hum ans, and they can't be inspired by art, because they don't understand the "why" of it, and do not appreciate
it. They reduce the work to com putational statistical patterns. These AI com panies (OpenAI and Google) want to use the "Fair Use"
defense, which in no way applies. Their very purpose is to statistically m im ic the system /com pany/hum an that created the training data.
They are without a doubt com peting with and harm ing the original creators and rightsholders. My own incom e has been im pacted since
the release of AI im age and video m odels. The m arket value of m y work goes down with every m odel released that's trained on m y, and
m y peers work.
These AI com panies keep referring to an AI race with China as a reason to reduce copyright laws and protections for hum an creators.
This m akes no sense... This is just a ploy to use National Defense as an excuse for them  to take creative works and turn them  into
com m ercial products. It has nothing to do with National Defense. Also China has routinely ruled in favor of creators over AI com panies in
term s of intellectual property and copyright. So OpenAI and Google's position on this is either outdated or incorrect. You can look up
Hangzhou Internet Court's ruling on Generative AI and Copyright from  earlier this year.
I have never had an issue with another artist viewing, and being inspired by m y work. That's because they are hum an. They are not a large
algorithm  owned by a com pany reducing m y work to data to create a product to com pete against m e in m y m arket and elim inate the
scarcity of m y hard-earned skill. These com panies (OpenAI and Google, to nam e a few) have released m ultiple m odels trying to m onetize
m y labor with zero consent, credit, and com pensation. They have offered broken olive branches to artists in the form  of convoluted opt-
out processes for their future m odels; notably absent is that you can't opt out of m odels that have already been released.


I ask that the OSTP and this adm inistration do everything within its power to end this plagiarism  and further protect creators’ rights against
generative AI. The creative industries, developers, architects, writers, artists and so on are a corner stone of the Am erican dream . And
they are a reliable and large part of our country's econom y. So far AI com panies are still searching for a profit/successful business m odel.
It would be a dangerous risk to sacrifice the creative industry for a fragile and lawless AI venture, who's whole business m odel relies on
breaking current laws and protections. 
Thank you for hosting this survey and taking the tim e to read m y com m ent. It is very m uch appreciated. 


