PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-fqhz-77lq
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1575
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Am erica's Credit Unions
General Comment
Com m ent from  Am erica's Credit Unions.
Attachments
ACU Com m ent Letter to NSF re AI Action Plan 3.15.25 _final


© America's Credit Unions 202 5 Americas Credit Unions.org  March  31, 2025  
Faisal D'Souza  
National Coordination Office  
National Science Foundation  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence 
Action Plan  
Dear Mr. D’Souza : 
America’s Credit Unions  appreciates this opportunity to respond to the request for information 
regarding the development of an artificial intelligence (AI) action plan, consistent with Executive 
Order 14179, “Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence .” America’s 
Credit Unions is the voice of consumers’ best  option for financial services: credit unions. We 
advocate for policies that allow the industry to  effectively meet the needs of their over 142 million 
members nationwide.   
America’s Credit Unions supports the directive to develop AI policy that promote s economic 
competitiveness . As high ly regulated financial institutions, credit unions are  committed to using 
AI safely, securely, and with the goal of helping their members meet their financial  needs . Today 
credit unions are partnering  with third parties to successfully  implement AI -driven tools to 
improve  access to credit for  members, strengthen existing risk management processes, and 
improve customer service.  To promote continued innovation in this field, credit unions must 
have certainty that future AI policy frameworks will not impose one -size-fits all rules that are 
either duplicative or administratively diffic ult to implement in an already tightly regulated 
sector.  
General Comments  
America’s Credit Unions supports non -regulatory approaches for supporting and evaluating the  
use of AI within the financial services sector. As with other technologies, consumer financial  
protections and anti -discrimination rules continue to have broad applicability and are not  
diminished by any particular mode of decision making. Existing regulations require credit  
unions to adopt robust risk management practices and compliance procedures to ensure that  the 
use of any new technology does not jeopardize saf ety and soundness or the rights of individual  
members.  
A future AI action plan should ensure that policy targeting  financial institution use of AI accounts 
for existing regulation  is tailored to specific use cases,  which are typically far narrower than the 
“generative AI” capabilities which have attracted the  greatest share of public concern . Existing 


Page 2 of 4 
 
 
 
© America's Credit Unions 202 5 Americas Credit Unions.org  consumer financial law is tech neutral and applies to many banking activities already driven by 
algorithms and technology —such as credit underwriting and customer service interaction s. In 
the context of ensuring AI risks are managed appropriately, the AI action plan should 
acknowledge the broad applicability of existing consumer financial law and the robust risk 
management practices already required of credit unions.1 
 
A future AI action plan should also endeavor to educate financial regulators about the 
practical application of AI both within government agencies and regulated institutions.  
Such education is necessary to avoid misunderstanding  about the extent to which  control 
is vested between human and machine  agents  across various use cases . The particular 
degree  of control has relevance insofar as some financial regulators may  perceive AI -
driven outcomes as difficult to understand but are not sure how end users should validate 
their use of AI systems to demonstrate compliance with applicable law. In  general, 
financial regulatory agencies tend to evaluate compliance by looking at  policies and 
procedures , which are part of an institution’s compliance management system  (CMS). In 
the context of assessing compliance with consumer financial law, these  evaluations can 
be subjective and can result in lower supervisory ratings even  when no violations of law 
are identified.2 Given how AI appears to draw scrutiny from certain  regulators, a balanced  
and informed  supervisory approach is  paramount to ensure that assessments of AI are  
reasonably scoped and output oriented.3 
 
A future AI action plan should recognize that many of the potential risks associated with using 
AI are not unique to AI.4 Furthermore, many of these risks are addressed by existing law, 
regulation, or supervisory  guidance. For example, safety and soundness risk associated with the 
use of AI for credit  underwriting purposes is largely accounted for in the NCUA’s  supervision 
policy for model risk  management.   The NCUA has noted in its examiner guidance that “[m]odel 
risk increases with  model complexity and with higher levels of uncertainty about the validity of 
inputs and  assumptions,” and advises credit unions to engage in a robust risk management 
 
1 See NCUA Examiner’s Guide, Risk Management Components (last updated August 23, 2022), available at  
https://publishedguides.ncua.gov/examiner/Content/ExaminersGuide/Risk - 
ManagementGovernance/RiskManagementComponents.htm#Policies.  
2 See CFPB, Supervision and Examination Manual, Examinations and Targeted Reviews, 11 (February 2019)  
available at  https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_examination -process -section.pdf (“An  
institution may receive a less than satisfactory rating even when no violations were identified, based on  
deficiencies or weaknesses identified in the institution’s CM S”) 
3 See CFPB, CFPB and Federal Partners Confirm Automated Systems and Advanced Technology Not an Excuse for  
Lawbreaking Behavior (April 25, 2023) available at  https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about - 
us/newsroom/cfpb -federal -partners -confirm -automated -systems -advanced -technology -not-an-excuse -for- 
lawbreaking -behavior/ (“[T]he CFPB will work with its partner enforcement agencies to root out discrimination  
caused by any tool or system that enables  unlawful decision making”)  (emphasis added) . 
4 See Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, CFPB, FDIC, NCUA, OCC, Request for Information and  
Comment on Financial Institutions' Use of Artificial Intelligence, Including Machine Learning, 86 Fed. Reg.  
16837, 16839 (March 31, 2021), available at  https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2021/03/31/2021 - 
06607/request -for-information -and-comment -on-financial -institutions -use-of-artificial -intelligence.  
 


Page 3 of 4 
© America's Credit Unions 202 5 Americas Credit Unions.org  process to  ensure model validation and accuracy. ”5 In terms of assessing the adequacy of credit 
union model risk management, the NCUA references  interagency guidance published by the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System  (Federal Reserve) and Office of the 
Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). The interagency  guidance casts a wide net, covering many 
different banking activities including underwriting  credits, valuing exposures, measuring risk, 
and safeguarding client assets . 
Credit unions looking deploy AI  either on their own or through third parties  are well aware of 
the risks that  such technology could pose in the absence of appropriate model risk management,  
due diligence and third -party risk  assessment . Fine -tuned control, careful oversight, and an 
abundance of caution are  prerequisites for putting any type of AI software into production.  While 
certain applications of AI may be new (e.g., natural language interaction with consumers),  the 
high -level principles contained in t he interagency model risk management guidance remain  
broadly applicable. Most importantly, the guidance recognizes limits on risk management by  
emphasizing a  standard of materiality. Similar to other domains of prudential regulation,  
effective regulation seeks to manage risk to an acceptable level based on the exposures and risk  
tolerances of individual institutions . 
A future AI action plan should recognize that the question of whether risks are material is 
especially relevant  in the context of evaluating AI systems. If an institution can demonstrate 
adequate risk  management and exercise appropriate due diligence with respect to the selection 
of technology  service providers, consistent with longstanding regulatory guidance, deployment 
of AI  technology should not raise significant new concerns within the financial sector. Unlike  
unregulated sectors of the economy, where unsupervised companies may be exploring  
generative uses of AI that could introduce unique security or political risks, the use of AI by credit  
unions and other regularly examined financial institutions is tightly controlled.  
While certain forms of  AI have  evoked concern around topics of bias and misinformation, it is  
important to recognize that the use of AI within the credit union industry is subject to ongoing 
supervision and examination to ensure compliance with  consumer protections, anti -
discrimination laws, and prudential safeguards. Accordingly, the regulatory priorities of the AI 
action plan should be oriented towards  refining supervisory understanding rather than seeking 
new, one -size-fits all rules that would  soon grow  outdated in the quickly developing field of AI. 
With greater understanding of how this  technology can benefit consumers, enhance business 
functions, and support healthy  competition, regulators may find it easier to offer signals of 
support rather than skepticism  
Conclusion  
America’s Credit Unions supports a financial marketplace that allow credit unions to grow and  
innovate through the responsible use of AI and appropriate collaboration with fintechs. As not - 
5 See NCUA, Model Risk, available at  
https://publishedguides.ncua.gov/examiner/Content/ExaminersGuide/SensitivityMarketRisk/EvaluatingIRR/M
easurement/ModelRisk.htm?Highlight=model%20risk  


Page 4 of 4 
© America's Credit Unions 202 5 Americas Credit Unions.org  for-profit cooperatives, credit unions leverage AI tools  to reduce costs and  meet the  
needs of their members, such as by improving access to credit, preventing fraud, enhancing risk  
management, and improving customer service operations. Money that can be saved by adopting 
AI is money that can be put back in the pockets of credit union members. We are hopeful that a 
future AI action plan will support innovation and operational efficiency while avoiding excess 
regulatory burden.  
We look forward to continuing to work with the NSF  on these important issues. Should you have 
any questions or need additional information, please  contact me at  or 
 . 
Sincerely,  
Andrew Morris  
Director , Innovation & Technology  


