PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-93pd-yfpn
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1817
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Jamie Kalen  
General Comment
What we’re prom ised is the future of art and writing is the death of it. I strongly oppose AI in all form s and uses. I never gave m ost of
these sites m y perm ission to use m y words and art to build its system s, and yet it used m y words and m y art anyways. Opt out has only
even becom e a recent option, which is increasingly m ore of an im possibility, as the way to disable the collection of data becom es harder
and harder intentionally.
In college, m y professor used AI to give feedback to our projects. I noticed im m ediately and rem arked to a friend only for it to be
revealed at the end of the sem ester by him  in favor of its use. How did I know? I was a writer. He gave m e an absolute breadth of
feedback, m ost of which was fluff and very little of which was usable feedback. I write fiction, and m y auto-correct also uses som e AI
elem ents, with m any suggestions being wrong or just a reduction of m y point.
To allow AI into every part of our life is to dism antle public education. I’m  a teacher, so I often have to deal with students who don’t see
a point in learning how to use our language. In this way, we tell them  to never struggle through learning because AI can do it better.
Instead of cutting out dangerous physical labor or m aking it easier for those workers to exist, we cut creative jobs, the ones that require
individuality and hum anity instead of com putation.
Please, I beg, no m atter what the im m ediate benefits appear to be, AI is just another tech gim m ick ruining our lives and we need to
oppose all support and im plem entation of it.


