PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-yeay-xhr4
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4999
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I am  an Am erican who lives for m aking visual arts, with m y own hands, and dream s of m aking a living through it. I have dedicated m y life
to honing m y craft.
If AI is allowed to run ram pant, scraping all works with no regard for Am erican copyrights, turning a profit off of this business m odel, it
would go against the Am erican Dream  itself. We have the rights to copyright protection, and thus AI focused com panies should respect
those rights.
Lack of copyright respect would kill m any sm all businesses, whether it be graphics design or drawing-focused businesses like graphic
novels and com m issioned artwork. It is antithetical to the Am erican Dream  to kill sm all businesses by fueling one or few giant businesses
with work directly stolen copyrighted m aterial from  sm all businesses and visual artists.
The United States of Am erica is built on innovation. Copyright law exists to encourage innovations. What point is there for us artists to
innovate if AI m odels tram ple our rights and put us out of business? If you wish to m aintain innovation, do not infringe on the rights of
creators; protect the rights of creators so that they can com fortably innovate in the first place and potentially give AI technology m aterial
that is backed by consent.
I am  not against the existence of AI technology. It undoubtedly has im portant uses. However, it should not be built off the backs of artists
who don't consent to having their work scraped by a m achine.
The AI Action Plan should:
- Dem and AI focused com panies have explicit consent from  the copyright holders of any m aterial they use.
- Encourage the existence of a system  where copyright holders can license their m aterials out to AI focused com panies for paym ent.
- Dem and transparency from  AI focused com panies as to what m aterial is in their system s.
A system  where AI com panies flourish on the backs of artists who give no consent is not sustainable. If artists and sm all businesses
focused on the arts feel secure, they will keep m aking innovations in the arts, and thus give better quality m aterial to the AI.


