PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-m e1w-vxbp
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2465
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I'm  an illustrator and I've been doing a lot of contract work for over 20 years. I unfortunately have lost a lot of work because of generative
AI, and a lot of m y work has been plagiarized and stolen. I can't pay m y bills anym ore and have had to look for other m eans of
em ploym ent, which has been incredibly difficult with m y m edical conditions. 
Being an individual who has honed their craft and skills for years in one area of artisan work, only to have those opportunities stripped
because of the greed of m en, is an incredibly difficult thing to recover from . Im agine you've spent your entire life creating a business, only
to have that business stripped from  you and all your hard work stolen, having to rebuild your life and start over from  the ground up after
20 years of hard labor. Put yourself in that position. Im agine you lost everything all because of a thief. It's not a good feeling.
This is what AI has done to a lot of Am ericans in m any fields. Autom ation m ight be the future, but it's not being used responsibly, it's not
being used to help people. It's being used to strip people of their livelihoods and it's being used to cheat the Am erican people. The am ount
of energy these program s take to run is obscene, the servers pulling from  the grid, working our energy sources overtim e, and it's not only
hurting the people but killing our planet too. Killing the world we live in. Poisoning our air, our water, our land.
There is no positives to com e from  a future like this. If it was used for m edical research to help people that would be one thing, but it's
being used to rob and cheat, and it's going to kill us all in the end.
Think of our future. 
One rich bastard can buy your vote, but let m e tell you this, when our world is dying, you can't eat m oney.


