PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-k8hb-9xfo
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2318
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I am  a sm all freelance visual artist and Am erican citizen. I am  also an individual who takes pride in being aware of various environm ental
issues and consider m yself som ething of an environm entalist. As an artist/sm all business, I have sold m y cover artworks and interior
illustrations to various folks, in the United States and abroad. I have sold and continue to sell one of a kind illustrations featuring m y
original ideas through various platform s, and oftentim es do so internationally. As an artist, business, environm entalist, and Am erican, I am
deeply concerned about the unregulated developm ent and deploym ent of AI. I am  concerned about AI-art generators being trained on art
created by hum an artists and the potential copyright infringem ents of said training and im age generation. I am  worried that the current
governm ent, in its haste to sustain and enhance Am erica's AI dom inance and to com pete with other nations in the developm ent of AI, is
neglecting the flourishing and com petitiveness of hum an artists and potentially ignoring long-standing legal protections afforded to the
creations of said hum an artists. Furtherm ore, as an environm entalist, I am  also concerned about the environm ental harm  (including
excessive use of power and water) of AI. I worry what pressures unregulated and unrestricted developm ent and deploym ent of AI will
put on an already stressed planet and how those pressures will negatively affect the flourishing of various hum ans here in Am erica and
worldwide.


