PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-27lz-0dm i
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8075
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Scripter Beaum ont
Address:
General Comment
AI im plem entation has been nothing but an unnecessary tim e sink. The existence of AI tools in m y daily life has not im proved anything. 
I don't need an AI sum m ary of a Google search query when the first actual result on the page answers m y question just fine. These AI
sum m aries are prone to spreading false inform ation as well. Without being able to see the source that these AI sum m aries pull from , I'm
inclined to never trust them .
I don't need ChatGPT to write m e a resum e when I know how to write one m yself. AI writing tools are also prone to plagiarism , and as a
person who values academ ic integrity, I refuse to use them . It sets a bad exam ple for students as well because it disincentivizes creative
thought and effort. Why learn how to write if the AI can just write for you?
AI in the arts has been a travesty. Professional artists, m any of whom  struggle to find jobs, are having their original work stolen and used
for AI training without perm ission. People can then use program s like Stable Diffusion to m ake rip-offs of those artists' work, passing it off
as their own. The resulting art is not only used for plagiarism , but also to create deepfakes and harm ful propaganda. This has had a terrible
im pact on real hum an lives.
How can Am ericans be expected to be optim istic about AI when our future looks so bleak due to these issues? If Am erica is to becom e a
world leader in the developm ent of AI, we should be using it to create real, tangible good. Not just convenience. Not just shortcuts.
Technology should always be used in service of hum ankind, and current AI developm ent does not seem  to be headed in that direction. I
am  not convinced that rem oving roadblocks to further AI developm ent is going to help anyone.


