PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 13, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 88-5q7o-njvz
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1285
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Kacy Hardin
Em ail:  
General Comment
All generative AI datasets are trained on data used without consent of the creator. That is only acceptable with public dom ain works, but
AI scrapes everything it can find online. The only way generative AI can be used ethically is by using it on an isolated dataset of legally
acquired work.
AI is being ham -fistedly forced into everything but every com pany that tries to use it to replace hiring a graphic designer or other type of
artist finds them selves with visibly garbage work that devalues their com pany, or ends up paying m ore to get som eone to m odify the result
into som ething usable. It's touted as a way to save m oney but has the opposite effect either by turning away potential custom ers or m aking
the com pany pay m ore anyway.
The com puting power required for generative AI servers is im m ense, on par with Bitcoin/NFTs. The long term  survival of the country
requires sm arter energy use choices, not an accelerated dem ise so Google can tell us that glue is the best way to help cheese stick to a
pizza better because AI skim m ed that off a popular Reddit post.
The ram pant use of generative AI has already hurt people. It has been used to generate false im ages of real people- som etim es
pornographic im ages. People have purchased AI generated books off Am azon that im properly identify edible plants and m ushroom s and
have gotten sick as a result. It has resulted in rising unem ploym ent num bers as com panies try to save a few bucks by letting go of their
artists to use genAI instead. Schools not discouraging or outright encouraging use of ChatGPT and other AI text generation are seeing a
decline in students capable of thinking critically and thinking for them selves. These are only the things that have m ade the news or that I've
witnessed personally. This is the OPPOSITE of hum an flourishing.
AI has been forced into everyone's faces, and those who are less technologically savvy would reasonably think that's because it's good
and reliable. It can't even reliably do m ath correctly, I would not trust it to answer a potential m edical question. That could get som eone
killed. For all we know it already has. The next person to fall victim  to its m isinform ation could be som eone you care about.
I am  an artist and I work in the Museum  field. Education, the arts, and basic hum an rights are areas of value to m e. Please do not allow
the president to drive the country further into the ground by going all in on AI. Everything he and Musk do is anti-Am erican, anti-
education, anti-hum an rights, and this is yet another instance of it.
As a side com m ent, m y com m ents are purely about generative AI. AI used to autom ate repetitive digital processes or analyze m edical
im aging is the good and useful sort of AI. It should assist, not replace!


