PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-k87g-leib
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1647
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Amber Allaire 
General Comment
It is harder to find a job on job boards due to AI. AI causes em pty job listings, and skim s resum es without looking at the actual person, or
having som eone read what is really there. Som ething sim ilar happened with United Healthcare. AI is bad at seeing the actual person
behind the screen, it lacks em pathy, and it m akes m istakes that can't just be solved with m ore training data.
I find stuff like the Stargate proposal (AI doctors) frightening. AI cannot look at your body, or take the tests a doctor can. It cannot
physically see what is going on, and process what you are saying in the sam e way as a hum an doctor. It just doesn't do that. It can and
will m ake m istakes if it com es out. Big m istakes.
AI has infested schools, and is m aking our kids dum ber. It autocom pletes essays for them , and prevents them  from  learning how to
properly com m unicate. It gives them  inaccurate inform ation. It is hard to tell a real article from  a fake one som eone generated, m aking the
search for accurate inform ation m ore difficult. Google AI sum m aries can be inaccurate.
And with artists, writers, m usicians, it is also bad. They com prise alm ost all of our soft power as a nation. They are also the people who
m ake life for m illions of Am ericans a bit m ore bearable. We are screwing them  over, and getting rid of all of the ones that are starting out
by favoring AI com panies m ore. All of the greats we could have gotten are all getting replaced by uninspired drivel by corporations and
m oney hungry individuals. Instead of creativity, we are prom oting this "cool new workaround to the copyright system ". Instead of being
legitim ately innovative, AI will cheapen the quality work we produce. Posting things online often is not perm ission from  these people, as
that is the m ain way they are m aking their m oney. 
I think the first two steps to m ore ethical AI is transparency and responsibility.
AI com panies should be charged with the sam e crim e their users com m itted, if they did som ething unethical using the product. That way,
they will be prom pted to prevent these abuses from  occurring.
People who use AI com m ercially in any way should be required to have a clear visible indicator for the consum er of the AI they used, and
what part of the process they used it in.
Stuff m ade with over 50% AI should also not be fair use. The individual AI parts also should not be fair use.
Social m edia should have opt out be the default, not the other way around. 
Also, I am  fine with everyone using m y stuff, so long as it isn't used in AI or to scam  people. There should be a secondary dom ain for
people who have stuff they are fine with people using their work, but in an ai-exclusionary sense.


