PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-kh0h-x9m g
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1651
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Chloe Edwards  
General Comment
Please do not allow this to m ove forward. While AI has m ade noticeable leaps and bounds, unfortunately, our country's copyright
protections are significantly behind. The prim ary issue with GenAI is the fact that it's an am algam ation of work stolen from  other creators,
without their consent and knowledge sim ply by pressing a few key words. Ive seen seen countless artists online over the last few years
lose their livelihoods because people have trained their algorithm s on their intellectual property so m uch to where it can even replicate
partial signatures, m aking it im possible to differentiate between the real and stolen one. Because GenAI is so incredibly reliant on input
data from  other users, it rem oves m any artists, m usicians, and anim ators ability to have a say in what is done with their work, or even IF
they want their art uploaded to these engines in the first place. Allowing these m easures to go through is a disgrace to both copyright law
and the already lim ited protections we have in place to defend creators from  this form  of m ass intellectual property theft. We as artists are
already an incredibly vulnerable and disrespected com m unity, the last thing we need are vultures sweeping into m ake ugly, generic looking
"artworks" and sucking out what soul m ade the original art so unique and HUMAN in the first place. It robs artists of their ability to have
autonom y over their work in the online space in the sam e way that influencers and cryptocurrency traders should their accounts or assets
be lost in things like data breaches, hacking, accidental deletion, and sim ilar im portant assets.
Rem em ber, the definition of art as cited by Google as of March 14th, 2025, at 21:05 hours is:
1.
the expression or application of hum an creative skill and im agination, typically in a visual form  such as painting or sculpture, producing
works to be appreciated prim arily for their beauty or em otional power.
•works produced by hum an creative skill and im agination.
2.
•creative activity resulting in the production of paintings, drawings, or sculpture.
3. the various branches of creative activity, such as painting, m usic, literature, and dance.
"the visual arts"
•subjects of study prim arily concerned with the processes and products of hum an creativity and social life, such as languages, literature,
and history (as contrasted with scientific or technical subjects).
"the belief that the arts and sciences were incom patible"
4.
•a skill at doing a specified thing, typically one acquired through practice.
"the art of conversation"
By rem oving the hum anity from  art, you just have a hollow, bastardized shell of what it could have been. 
-
Chloe Evelyn Edwards.


