PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0ogl-bgid
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6777
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Brent Shepherd
Address: United States, 
Em ail:  
General Comment
A.I. is theft from  writers, artists, com posers, journalists, researchers, and creators, as plainly and sim ply as if I were to plagiarize the work
of another writer and pass it off as m y own original work. It is quite literally a cheat code that encourages its users to take the easy way
out rather than to challenge their own intellect, im agination, skills and talents to create any kind of finished work. It can steal the im age,
likeness or voice of an individual, to build com posites and replace actors and perform ers in film  and television, or replace m odels in print
publications, stealing livelihoods and perhaps even paving the way for m ore nefarious uses outside traditional m edia.
Furtherm ore, because it gleans m uch of its, shall we say, raw data from  the unregulated, unedited internet, it aggregates as m uch
m isinform ation and disinform ation as it does usable, reliable, worthwhile inform ation. It lacks judgm ent and discernm ent. Sim ply put, like
the worst neighborhood gossip, it'll believe anything it overhears, then turn around and try to pass it off as the gospel truth.
Artificial? Undoubtedly. Intelligent? Not so m uch as its creators and advocates would like us to believe. And it has at least as m uch
potential to do harm  as to do good. So to reward its developers with the freedom  to take whatever they please without im pedim ent,
infringem ent or consequence would be no different than to leave a bank or a jewelry store unlocked overnight with the alarm s and cam era
system s disabled. It's giving away the whole store to com panies that have no inherent right to what's inside.


