PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zduj-5n12
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5782
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I'm  writing to express m y profound objection to the term s of the AI Action Plan requested by Google and OpenAI, as well as m y broader
disappointm ent at the m ercenary behavior of the tech sector and the enabling federal actions which have been put forth in response. The
suspension of intellectual property restrictions to enable AI scraping would devastate m y life as a writer and a designer, robbing m e of m y
ability to m ake an honest living and perm anently tarnishing m y trust in the federal governm ent's ability to responsibly m anage AI
technology.
Traditionally, people like m e sustain ourselves through lean tim es by writing articles on contract or doing gig work. AI tools which
expressly attem pt to elim inate writers and designers are being heavily prom oted, and of course, they are developed by stealing work
which m y peers and I work tirelessly to create for a pittance. This is no longer feasible, as work has dried up. Not only are m any websites
running m achine-generated copy instead of hum an writing, but entire fake publications are being generated with AI. The floor has been
torn out from  underneath us, and everyone I know, regardless of age, occupation, or politics, is scared. If the action plan is accepted, I
would feel sufficiently uneasy about m y prospects in the creative sector that I would feel forced to search for work in an entirely different
field or country.
The narrative prom oted by com panies such as OpenAI and Google is that their AI tools are already a part of life, and we all just need to
adopt it. But this isn't true, and as creative workers, we do not even have anything to gain from  using the AI tools illegally trained on our
work and our sensitive personal inform ation[1], because the resulting outputs are often viewed as inferior, dishonest, and off-putting to
m any of our audiences[2], and the dem and for creative work of all kinds has not increased, so we would be accom plishing nothing but
dim inishing ourselves. It is a nightm arish situation that this Action Plan would only exacerbate.
My friends and colleagues are profoundly upset at what we believe to be sim ply an attem pt to eradicate jobs and consolidate wealth. This
appears to be the case all across the country. AXIOS reported one year ago[3] that in Am erica, trust in AI com panies was as low as
38% am ong Dem ocrats and 24% am ong Republicans, and last June[4] that about two-thirds of Gen Z used AI only very rarely or not at
all, and 41% of Gen Z had never used AI tools for any purpose. 
Our resentm ents are not frivolous, they drive m y generation's (already very nervous) econom ic activity. I've stopped using several social
m edia and portfolio sites, and dram atically decreased m y tim e spent online because AI content is m eaningless and unnerving and it's
upsetting that nothing I see is provably real. This m eans I'm  exposed to a fraction of the online advertising I would previously see. My
purchasing has also significantly declined, and unethical AI utilization has driven m e from  brands like Adobe which I'd previously been
devoted to for years. 
It would take a huge change in circum stances for m e to resum e that level of financial engagem ent, and the Action Plan would discourage
m e from  creating new creative works because without intellectual property enforcem ent, doing so would put m e at risk of exploitation by
AI com panies. I believe an unregulated AI sector would have a freezing effect on econom ic activity m uch m ore widely, for reasons sim ilar
to m ine.
There is not any one am endm ent to the proposed legislation that would assuage m y concerns, besides it's unequivocal rejection. At the
very least, existing intellectual property rights need to be upheld and strengthened, and representatives from  the creative fields need to be
involved in any future deliberations that would involve our futures. The AI industry has failed to produce m iracles when provided with not
only a galaxy of public dom ain data but the stolen wealth of potentially nearly every Am erican citizen. It is not the responsibility of
Am erican creatives to bear the burden of the tech sector's continuing failures. It is the responsibility of the Am erican governm ent to bring


the rank am bition of these com panies to heel before they ruin us.
[1] https://arstechnica.com /tech-policy/2024/06/ai-trained-on-photos-from -kids-entire-childhood-without-their-consent/
[2] https://www.rollingstone.com /culture/culture-features/ai-im age-brand-backlash-1235040371/
[3] https://www.axios.com /2024/03/05/ai-trust-problem -edelm an
[4] https://www.axios.com /2024/06/03/ai-teens-young-adults-survey


