PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-u6wq-m 2z0
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1730
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Rachael Cross
General Comment
Gutting copyright laws in order to expedite the creation of a tech m onopoly is an unspeakably short-sighted m ove. Swaths of the creative
industries will be obliterated with no jobs to replace them , and no prom ise of further profits on any copy in the future. You would be
signing away to OpenAI all present and potential profits so that you can rent those profits back from  them . It sets a dangerous precedent
in which the ownership of any intellectual property is arbitrary.
To cede to OpenAI’s dem ands would, in turn, m ake it so that OpenAI them selves have no legal defense of their “own” m aterials unless
the governm ent were to extend them  special privileges. Again, these changes serve no one except for AI com panies, another shift towards
consolidating wealth into the hands of a few powerful owners. 
If President Trum p and, indeed, the governm ent at large, cares for the Am erican legacy, then they should understand that dem olishing the
creative industry to further em power tech will only tarnish Am erica’s cultural power and influence. What use is Hollywood, what use is
any entertainm ent— if we have com pletely disconnected these things from  the people who create them ? If all that m atters is the AI race
between Am erica and China, then there’s essentially no difference between anything that anyone m akes. They all draw upon the sam e
dataset in the end, the stolen works of all artists, including m e.
The only reason there is any value in anything is because of hum an people. Hum ans create, and hum ans enjoy what is created. This is a
critical m om ent where Am erica should be an exam ple to the world of a nation that it understands the value of its citizens, that prioritizes
quality over the pointless quantity of AI. Art in Am erica should be encouraged and celebrated, not degraded and outsourced to m achines
for the sake of short term  profits.


