PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-o2ez-zxxw
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2577
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Zachary Tarwater
General Comment
Hum anity is defined by what we do and what we create. Technology has allowed us to m ake great leaps and alleviate hum an suffering in a
scale that has never before been seen, especially in such a relatively short tim e as the last few hundred years. 
I believe AI can be a tool to help take that even further. In m edicine, in engineering, in the econom y, urban developm ent, farm ing, the list
goes on.
However I do not feel that that is the goal for m any people pushing and developing these m odels. Especially when it com es to generating
art and im ages, som ething that is so uniquely hum an and that is a craft we have been building on for as long as we have existed as a
species.
I understand that artistic expression is not a universally cherished ideal. That is why it is im portant to understand that generative AI is not
just being used to cheaply copy an artists style or body of work.
As AI has advanced over the last few years it has becom e harder and harder to recognize AI deep fakes for what they are. Soon it will be
im possible. 
The ethical, legal, and political ram ifications for this are boundless.
Eventually, any im age of any child can be used to create child pornography. Evidence of crim es including surveillance and crim e scene
photos will be tam pered with to wrongfully convict innocent people or acquit dangerous crim inals. Political figures will have their likeness
stolen and be m ade to appear to say or do anything.
The effects of this technology will be widespread and uncontrollably devastating to our society and civilization as a whole.
It is im perative that the developm ent of generative AI be halted until we can better understand how to regulate it.


