PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-wi68-9d20
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3915
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: CZ Edwards  
General Comment
Copyright has been a fixture of creative work for well over a century. It is the legal structure that allows creativity to pay.
A classroom  teacher cannot photocopy a short story to teach a class; a com m unity theater m ust purchase the rights to perform  a play.
Cover artists have to pay the writer to use the song. Libraries pay for copies of books to lend, and for m any authors and sm aller m usic
m akers, are a m ajor source of royalties. If we do not allow the m ost com m unity-m inded, altruistic uses of our work without our
perm ission, even when we waive our fees, why would we perm it corporations that literally waste billions of dollars, gigawatts of electricity,
and acre-feet of water in the pursuit of a nonsense generator less effective than any random  barfly on $5 pitcher night? They’re well
funded; 5 billion dollars could easily buy legitim ate library copies of alm ost all of our collective works. 
LLMs are not children. They do not learn, they are fed m assive am ounts of data and play with statistical dice to yack out the next
statistically likely word in sequence. So the analogy of the LLM reads the whole library is self-serving theft. 
LLM/GenAI’s desire to steal work from  people who are already poorly paid is so Dickensian that even a Manchester cotton baron or
US rail baron would blush at the outright theft they want the governm ent to bless for them . 
There is no am ount of data that will m ake LLMs work even at the level of intern. They’re a pipe dream  and an expression of a religious
ideation created by such poorly educated tech bros that they don’t even recognize a Pascal’s Wager when it sm acks them  in the face. To
allow them  to steal any piece of written work in their quixotic quest for a m achine that wishes to kill everyone who didn’t help it be born is
to play to the worst fantasies of an over-specialized group of nerds in desperate need of the hum anities.


