PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-v4h3-bpzp
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3493
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
AI holds no place whatsoever in Am erica. It exists only to steal work from  the worker to generate a profit where we are not obligated to
be paid. Art, Music, Literature, Film ; all these form s of expression are unique to the hum an experience, and cannot be m ade without the
hum an soul - even if you m anage to develop a replica, it is one of unfeeling and unthinking stone. It experiences and expresses no love, no
joy, no thought, no desire, no inspiration, no beauty. It is an industry m eant to ride the train of potential into a self-cannibalizing factory that
was built on biting the very hand it feeds from , and will eventually consum e those who unwillingly fed it whole; before it m ust turn upon
itself. I ask you this: When AI has nothing left to take from  because it's only rem aining resource is other AI, will it create som ething new?
Of course not. Because AI cannot create. It can only replicate what cam e before, without the care and consideration put into it. It is an
inherently flawed system , and not only is it an inherently flawed system , it is one built upon theft. All of these things are ultim ately irrelevant,
and I should not need to justify them  to you. To uplift AI is to step on the necks of those who built the very garden it seeps into and rots
like a weed, wilting the m an who worked and will not see the fruit of his labor, or the artist who painted and saw a m achine produce a
poorer version; grasped ahold of in wonder because the work was m ade by an unthinking, unfeeling ghost, not a m an nor wom an who put
their passion and love into it.
Artificial Intelligence is the enem y of the Hum an Spirit, and if I cannot appeal to you on this m erit alone; I appeal to you on potential faith:
To Sin is not som ething unknowable and com plex, it is to treat people as objects. To uplift these objects over the people they take from  is
to em body evil in it's purest form .


