PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-7h7t-lnqp
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1430
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Nuclear Energy Institute
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
NEI Com m ents AI Action Plan_FINAL


John Kotek  
Sr. Vice President 
Policy & Public Affairs Phone: 
Email: 
March 14, 2025 
Faisal D'Souza 
National Coordination Office (NCO) 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
Subject: NEI Comments for Development of Federal Artificial Intelligence Action Plan; Docket 
NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479 
Dear Mr. D’Souza, 
On behalf of the Nuclear Energy Institute’s (NEI)1 members, we are pleased to offer comments 
regarding development of the federal Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan, as outlined in President 
Trump’s signed Executive Order 14179 (Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial 
Intelligence), on January 23, 2025.   
The recent AI boom has resulted in surging demand for reliable electricity, primarily due to the rapid 
deployment of data centers and the need for more advanced computational power, which consumes 
significant amounts of energy. In the United States, data center demand is expected to account for 12% 
of total power consumption by 2030 (a 3x increase from current levels). Meanwhile, large hyperscalers 
and other data center developers have placed an emphasis on increasingly clean power for their 
operations with aggressive targets.   
Nuclear power is uniquely situated to meet this moment as the nation’s largest source of clean, 
reliable power. 
Our nation’s 94 operating nuclear units play a vital role in ensuring a safe, reliable, and affordable 
electric grid to serve customers across the United States. Collectively, our fleet is pursuing 3 GW of 
power uprates, and 3 GW of historic plant re-starts, the equivalent of adding approximately six large 
light-water-reactors to the grid, which would power over 5 million homes. In addition, the majority of the 
operating fleet is planning for life extensions out to 80 years, as demand from large energy consumers 
and customers skyrockets.     
1 The Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI) is responsible for establishing unified policy on behalf of its members relating to matters affecting the 
nuclear energy industry, including the regulatory aspects of generic operational and technical issues. NEI’s members include entities licensed 
to operate commercial nuclear power plants in the United States, nuclear plant designers, major architect and engineering firms, fuel cycle 
facilities, nuclear materials licensees, and other organizations involved in the nuclear energy industry. 


Mr. D’Souza 
March 14, 2025 
Page 2 
 __________________ 
*This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential information.
Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without
attribution .Nuclear Energy Institute 
In the last year, several U.S. tech companies have signed contracts for advanced reactors to support 
their significant data center growth, with deployment plans as early as 2030. In fact, new nuclear 
partnerships with tech customers totals nearly 30 GWe of commitments. In addition, some tech 
companies are also turning to existing nuclear assets to help power their operations through Power 
Purchase Agreements. In some cases, large energy consumers are forging new business models by 
partnering together to aggregate their demand for advanced nuclear technologies. Clearly, there are 
different approaches to integrating nuclear power, but the commonality is that nuclear power is being 
valued for its 24/7, clean, reliable attributes by large electricity customers.   
President Trump has made clear that global AI dominance is a national security imperative and priority. 
This will be achieved by nations that can secure the largest volumes of reliable power, with speed to 
market, paired with a robust private sector and dominant manufacturing capabilities. Nuclear power can 
uniquely meet this demand, while also contributing to mutual goals of economic competitiveness, 
energy dominance, and domestic job creation. The nuclear energy industry is seeing a significant 
resurgence as shown by strong bi-partisan support, the passage of key legislation at the federal and 
state levels, and opportunities for new partnership. Such partnership will extend beyond technological 
advancements and allow for broader global strategic influence in the global AI race against Russia and 
China. Further, recent geopolitical conflicts have forced nations to see nuclear with new eyes, and 
several dozen countries (including the United States) pledged to triple nuclear power by 2050. The time 
to honor that pledge is now. 
The signal to the marketplace is clear: demand for nuclear is strong and growing. As officials across the 
interagency begin to develop the AI Action Plan as a matter of national priority, we urge you to consider 
the fundamental role that nuclear power will play, in meeting the power demands to build out the 
nation’s technological capacity and leadership.   
Thank you for your consideration of our comments. If you have any questions or would like to discuss 
further, please contact me, or Hilary Lane (
Sincerely, 
John Kotek  
Senior Vice President




