PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-nl3r-lyoz
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2556
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Deejay Jones  
General Comment
This entire docum ent is a farce, and a waste of Am erican resources and tim e. Not only that, but it's results could be DISASTROUS. AI is
not anything useful, besides for creating deepfakes which could greatly harm  our inform ation sector. We have seen the basis for current
"AI" technology, and it is literally the sam e exact thing process that bots have been running on for well over a decade. There is no "race"
for AI, because there is no goal to win. It is utterly useless to the governm ent besides for the creation of propaganda. Now, Elon Musk is
invested in AI and therefore would love to have m onetary conflicts of interest in pushing his agenda forward and rem oving restrictions
from  his work, but this is flagrantly going against the will of the Am erican people. Am ericans do not want AI in their day to day.
Am ericans do not want AI copying their work. Am ericans do not want AI confusing the public discourse. Nobody cares about this
except Elon Musk and a handful of tech com panies who get m oney from  Gen AI providers. Further, as an Am erican Businessperson
whose livelihood is threatened by AI which *has already* scraped m y work and produced fake versions of things i have m ade, it is
insulting to think that m y president wishes to m ake this situation worse for m e and his hardworking constituents like m e.
Im agine AI running ram pant with no regulation! Star Wars, in it's entirety, posted everywhere, but because an AI trained itself on the film s
and TECHNICALLY produced it's own new shots, there can be no copyright lawsuit over it. Historical art by prolific creators now dead,
overshadowed by fake im itations of their technique, until nobody knows the difference. Every job posting, court record, Wikipedia article,
and historical docum ent from  here on out is largely written by AI, and therefore is actively PLAGIARIZING the hard work of actual
em ployees, journalists, and governm ent workers. Am erica not only has less jobs in a world with ram pant AI, the jobs it has are constantly
being copied by AI which shares that job in another sector. This is the only thing AI can do. It is not intelligence, it is PURELY artificial. It
steals work and presents said work. Every Am erican would have to undergo a dedicated and constantly updating training regim en to be
able to tell the difference between reality and fake news. This is a HORRIBLE idea that is only being put forth to benefit billionaires-
especially Musk. There is no other reason. It is, again, useless to this adm inistration and all future adm inistrations. 
Please do not do this.


