PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-z2j2-eytg
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5498
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Ken Burnside   
Email: 
General Comment
It is especially telling that som e of the world's wealthiest people (Sam  Altm an, Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg) are desperately trying to
steal the livelihoods of artists and writers who are barely scraping by, by utterly ruining the concept of copyrighted works as a source of
building personal wealth.
If you asked them  to give up their patented works, why, it'd be Maoist Socialist Fascism  all the way down. I m ean, that's their response if
you ask them  to pay the sam e tax rates that a self-em ployed writer or artist pays; the roughly 10% extra that we pay m aking up the
"em ployer" contribution to incom e taxes since we're self-em ployed.
Even *after* ruining the ability of sm all, self-em ployed creatives to earn an incom e, their prom ises of Generative AI don't work.
Perhaps whom ever is reading this has heard of the AI 'hallucination' problem . It's because AI is very cleverly written autocom plete with no
actual understanding of its subject m atter. AI fam ously can't count the num ber of "r" characters in "strawberry" and m akes up case
citations when used to sum m arize legal docum ents for lawyers.
That 'hallucination' problem  is fundam ental to Generative AI m odels. While it's taken as an article of faith that "feeding m ore data into the
m odels" will eventually (don't ask how, it's AI m agic!) solve the problem , the reality is that OpenAI now wants to access four tim es the
data than has ever been put on the entire Internet, and, no, please, don't charge *poor little us* while we set 11 billion dollars of
investm ent m oney on fire to generate 4 billion dollars in revenue, not that we're being open about how m uch revenue we're generating, we
need all of hum an knowledge! For the FUTURE!
If there m ust be a form al plan of action for AI, beyond "shut the scam  down," it's this:
If your AI com pany isn't using its own product to write its quarterly earnings reports to regulators and investors, then it's a scam . 
Maybe you should ask Sam  Altm an why he isn't using his own software to replace those expensive accountants and attorneys.
Instead of asking sm all creative businesses to be happy about the com ing AI future by giving up their ongoing rights to intellectual
property.


