PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-wy8a-6h5n
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4310
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Jam es Barker
General Comment
Generative AI has been an EXTREMELY controversial topic especially in the increasingly-oppressed artist com m unities I've been in.
While I do not own a visual design business, countless frustrated artists have lost their jobs because of AI and the senseless billionaires
pushing it into everything. MICROSOFT even did a study on it and found using it degrades critical thinking skills alarm ingly quickly. Read
the attached letter for m y full thoughts!
Attachments
Letter to the Governm ent About the Dangers of AI


From: 
James William Barker 
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
I am an everyday American who is a hobbyist artist and takes commissions, mostly from friends. 
Like many of my friends, commissioners or otherwise, I'm completely and consistently outraged 
at the abrupt rise of Generative AI on the internet, scraping through even private medical 
records to attempt to accumulate every image on the internet and putting other everyday 
people out of their beloved jobs. 
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google 
threaten to d estroy thousands of American small businesses like many I have seen 
online with their recent demand to create special carve outs in copyright law. 
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work made by people. My unique work, and 
the work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators was taken and fed into 
these AI systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest our work, reassemble it 
into a soulless facsimile that many have the gall to refer to as "art", and then sell it back to our 
clients – directly competing with us and cutting us out of the marketplace. 
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. 
They are suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow 
suddenly “fair use”. The way AI just gobbles up any and all images is unfathomably unfair to 
everyone, artists and their clients alike. 
Big Tech corporations' CEOs and the drivers behind this ghoulish technology seem to believe 
that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should be theirs for 
the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to rewrite the law in this 
way, it will stifle American innovation. 
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American co pyright law is to 
protect the incentive to create and innovate.  
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen 
by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new 
innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it 
immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will 
we possibly make a living doing these things? 


Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and 
everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency. 
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition: 
●First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent, so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
●Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that
the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense
economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original
creators, not just Big Tech.
●Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what
content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things, but not… this. We should not sacrifice 
the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans who have made their entire lives work 
because of their wonderful art and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law. Art is as 
human as we ourselves are! 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues. 


