PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 88-v5od-m yta
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1334
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Lucy 
Studebaker  
General Comment
My nam e is Lucy Studebaker and I am  a m em ber of the graduating class of 2025 at Avonworth High School. I com pleted a sem ester
course on AI and Ethics and studied im pacts of Generative AI on Catholicism . EO 14179 will im prove Catholicism  and will support a
policy of education on the Catholic faith. Many AI platform s used to educate people on the Catholic faith, have been seen as both harm ful
and beneficial. An exam ple of this is an AI chatbot known as The Father Justin App, which is used to educate users on Catholicism
through questions and answers. The use of this chatbot caused confusion for som e people and often replied with inaccurate inform ation.
Because AI chatbots are essentially m athem atics and not ethics, it has created a fear for those exploring the Catholic faith. Catholicism
opposes m aking any one person or thing above, or at the level of God, so using technology at the service of the church could be seen as a
m ockery of God. There are Artificial Intelligence platform s that are seen as safe and creating an exciting environm ent for the Catholic
com m unity. One that I have personal experience with is the #1 prayer app, Hollow, which provides the public with prayers, hom ilies, daily
readings, and podcasts. This educates users on Catholic faith accurately and effectively, without the fear of m isinform ation. As said by
Pope Francis, it is im portant to rem em ber our hearts to not allow AI algorithm s to replace what we truly believe in, which in this case is
God. The EO 14179 will hopefully set apart the Catholic faith from  Artificial Intelligence, in a way that can educate users without replacing
true faith in God and taking away what we truly believe in the Catholic faith.


