PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-sap5-ws2w
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3073
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Anonymous Anonymous 
General Comment
While AI technology is helpful for som e tasks there should be an extrem e degree of consideration taken for data privacy in the training of
these m odels. Up to this point it has been clear that AI com panies have no concern for the ethics of the data they have. Many AI
com panies have swept the entirety of the internet and ingested nearly all accessible data to train their m odels giving no concern for the
legality of the data they ingest or the copyright protections of said data. Now with this further order there is a great concern that people's
private data will be used for training. It is not surprising that people do not want large corporations with no concerns for data privacy
having access to inform ation about them . If data ingested is retained without censorship it would in theory be possible to get the AI m odel
to regurgitate part of said data as was done at a hacking convention with a car com pany's public chat bot instance of an AI m odel which
was able to be tricked into revealing custom ers credit card num bers. In the rush to get investor m oney based on innovation in AI m any
com panies have disregarded the ethics of what they do in favor of speed, we should not allow them  access to private data as a reward for
their actions.
Furtherm ore there are m assive concerns as to the energy efficiency of these m odels. While our electricity infrastructure and generation
ability continues to age we are developing technologies that require an extraordinary am ount of power to perform  basic tasks that AI was
not previously used for. For exam ple alm ost every basic google search now pops up Google's AI suggestion, because of this every google
search now requires m uch m ore electricity to perform  as well as m ore water to cool the com puters. It is worth rem em bering that the
resources used for things like this are lim ited to the electricity we can generate, the m ore we buy into it the m ore infrastructure will need to
be generated m aking life m ore expensive for everyday Am ericans. 
AI m odels can be useful, I do agree with that. Alphafold 2 (the AI m odel that has been able to com pute hundreds of m illions of protein
structures easily) has been revolutionary the past 2 years in Biology and we are m aking advances because of it. But these m odels are not
ingesting private data, they only use known protien m odels and chem ical inform ation to train their system  of calculators, and have real uses
that benefit every hum an. It is dangerous to use successes like these to justify handing people's private inform ation to a m odel for unknown
benefits that would likely not help anybody and actively harm  som e people.


