PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-sg32-ci0y
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3094
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Thom as Davdidson  
General Comment
AI action plan com m enting
Training AI on copyrighted works should not be considered fair use. Allowing com panies to continue this practice would be disastrous
both for the econom y and for the individual lives of countless creatives across m any fields. Further, I believe it is unethical, inconsistent
with legal precedent, and would lead to further long-term  consequences.
Consider what would happen if these AI m odels were to continue im proving, and were legitim ized by this "action plan." Profit-driven
com panies will not pay hum an artists, m usicians, writers, etc. when AI can do the job quicker and cheaper. People who had som ething
unique and valuable to contribute to society will no longer be able to do so; instead they will be forced to do unskilled work or be unable
to find work at all. AI will not create new jobs anywhere near the scale of the jobs lost.
When the econom ic activity of hum an creative work disappears, that also m eans less tax revenue to fund the governm ent. 
It's only a m atter of tim e before this extends to nearly all jobs, creative or otherwise, as businesses seek to cut costs with AI. What
happens when the m ajority of Am ericans are unem ployed?
Generative AI does not com e up with its own ideas; it adds nothing new that it didn't take from  hum ans. However, it will have fewer new
ideas to consum e when hum an artists are unable to m ake a living from  their work and are, again, forced to either do unskilled work or
suffer in poverty. Thus, over tim e I believe hum ankind will creatively and culturally stagnate. 
Finally, I would like to address the criteria typically used to evaluate fair use today as I understand it.
1. Regarding the purpose of the use, it is com m ercial - a point against fair use.
2. Regarding the nature of the works used, m any of them  are novel, copyrighted, and otherwise not helping the case for fair use.
3. Regarding the portion of the work used, the nature of the technology m akes this im possible to m easure. However, it has been
dem onstrated that AI som etim es reproduces im ages it has been trained on nearly identically. I think this should be a point against fair use.
4. Regarding the effect of the use on the m arket for the original work, generative AI unquestionably devalues the works it is trained on.
Why pay an artist when AI can recreate their style either cheaply or for free?
I hope given these factors, the econom ic consequences, and the potential degradation of what m akes us uniquely hum an, you will agree
that training AI on copyrighted works should not be considered fair use. 
I am  subm itting this com m ent a second tim e to include the following:
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.


Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.


