PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-he2r-2r2v
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2117
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
As an artist and researcher, I highly oppose of the increased use of AI (artificial intelligence) in daily life. AI has proven to give false
inform ation and be inaccurate with details when asked. On top of that, AI takes from  artists such as m yself to create fast art (in a sim ilar
vain of fast fashion) ripping off artists and consum ers alike. It also allows for individuals to not do their own research, creating a population
that is m ore prone to lies and deceit. Now do I believe that this adm inistration cares? Not one bit. However, further pursuit of AI will
continue to tarnish the longstanding reputation of the United States to the rest of the world as a center of knowledge and the arts, tarnish
the value of hard work and attention to detail in craft, and, in the end, will turn them  away from  seeing us as leaders of the free world. Is
this som ething that we truly want to adopt? Do we want to see quality or quantity with life and livelihood? Do we want to look sm art or be
sm art? These are things to think about as we m ove into a world where it’s easier to consum e falsehoods rather than do the work to
understand the truth, no m atter how difficult it is to grasp or how difficult it is to change our own m inds. We should not be adopting tools
to m ake art quick, rather pay our artist to m ake beautiful work. We should not be adopting tools to write papers and reports quick, but
rather be learning how to use our own voices. We should not be adopting tools to do their work for us, but rather do the work to fulfill us.
Tools are im portant, but if they are to replace hum an nature, they are not a benefit, rather they allow us to becom e without em pathy. I
highly ask for you to reconsider, from  artists and researchers alike.


