PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1ix4-tagg
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7512
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Leigh Ellison  
Email: 
General Comment
March 14, 2025
From :
Leigh Ellison
Illustrator & Cafeteria Attendant
Lorain, OH
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am  an everyday Am erican who illustrates for a sm all niche custom er base, and have done so for 15 years. I have worked hard for all m y
life to hone the skills and knowledge to build m y business, and have been lucky enough to receive enough m oney from  m y illustrations that
they have helped m e afford to m ake ends m eet.
The AI system s such as OpenAInand Google threaten to destroy thousands of Am erican sm all businesses like m ine with their recent
dem and to create special carve-outs in copyright law.
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. My unique work, and the work of hundreds of thousands of
other everyday Am erican creators was taken and fed into these AI system s without our consent, knowledge, or any com pensation. They
ingest our work, reassem ble it, and then sell it back to unknowing or uncaring consum ers – directly com peting with us and cutting us out of
the m arketplace.
Now these big tech com panies are asking this adm inistration to create exceptions and loopholes to m ake this practice of stealing
Am erican creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a m achine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it
is som ehow suddenly “fair use”. This disregards the reality that the m achines would do nothing without data to train on, and the dataset
would be greatly lim ited if they were to only use work they have perm ission to use and have to pay royalties on. These AI tools would
cease to function if their abuse and exploitation of creatore was deem ed a violation of copyright.
They seem  to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim
that if this adm inistration does not allow them  to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle Am erican innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of Am erican copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate.
If we the Am erican people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by big tech giants, what will be the
incentive to create? Many of us create sim ply because we like it, but to allow free exploitation of our passion, it creates a harm ful
enviornm ent for creativity. Creatives will fear posting their works publicly because they will be stolen unjustly because of the com plete
disregard for the fairness of AI data scraping. If everyday Am ericans create a new innovative piece of com puter code, a new visual
design, or a new piece of m usic only to have it im m ediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How


will we possibly m ake a living doing these things? All of this theft in the nam e of technological advancem ent to pay as few hum ans as
possible. Disgusting and im m oral.
Want to protect Am erican innovation? Protect Am erican creators. Do not create new copyright exem ptions that allow big tech com panies
to exploit and steal from  creators and everyday Am ericans without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency.
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech com panies, but rather on ensuring a fair
m arketplace with com petition:
First, the governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, so that we can decide when and where
our work is used by AI system s. Furtherm ore, that all websites are disallowed to autom atically enroll users in any AI training datasets.
Perm ission m ust be given explicitly, and ease of om itting works should be param ount.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is
preserved. Our work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just big
tech. Everyone who allows their work as data training deserves a continual cut of any and all proceeds generated using their creations.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  big tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their
training datasets, and label what content is AI generated. Each com ponent of the dataset should be paid out plainly with credits and links
that redirect to any given artists' work.
I am  not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am  consistently im pressed by the capabilities of these AI system s, and find them  incredibly useful for
m any things. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Am ericans and give it away to big tech by rewriting
copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to com m ent on these im portant issues.


