PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-fgio-vnqs
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1568
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Aaron Bourque   
Email: 
General Comment
When I was growing up, plagiarism  was considered a BAD thing.
The truth is, it's still considered a bad thing... if you're an individual doing it. For som e backards reason, the USA believes that people with
enough m oney can get away with anything, and in the USA corporations are treated as people. But copyright, though flawed, is the only
protection ordinary people have against the greed of others who will use m aterial and art created by artists in whatever way for their own
ends.
And now, the current m assive source of greed of those who want to use art for their own ends is so-called Generative AI, colloquially
called Plagiarism  Machines.
These com panies have m ade m assive investm ents (or wagers) in these Plagiarism  Machines, and are pinning their future wealth on
supposed windfalls from  them . But they're trying to force a windfall despite the general public not wanting what these com panies are trying
to sell them , and despite them  trying to illegally gain access to m assive am ounts of art (visual and textual) that they did not create and have
no right to so that their Plagiarism  Machines can m ake m ore convincing forgeries and acts of plagiarism . In a sane world, they would be
broken up and their leaders would be im prisoned for this. At the very least, as per the invisible hand of the m arket, they would rightfully go
out of business.
Instead, they are now begging for assistance they do not deserve and have not earned. They m ade foolish bets, and they lost those bets.
They should at the VERY least, go out of business. To ensure this, they should be blocked from  getting the laws rewritten so that they can
steal and profit from  it.
Copyright laws in the USA are im perfect, and allowing their naked greed to enrich them  would only m ake the laws even m ore im perfect.
We are supposed to strive to m ake things BETTER, not WORSE, and allowing the Plagiarism  Merchants to get rich over fraud will only
m ake things worse.


