PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-28q0-y4jd
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8105
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Jessica Feller
Address: United States, 
Em ail:  
General Comment
AI is not good for the Am erican people and it won't just cost people their jobs, it will do those jobs poorly.
Setting aside the fact that generative AI only exists due to outrageous theft of non-consenting individuals who put tim e and effort into their
craft, a lot of the inform ation given by AI is not just wrong, but confidently wrong, feeding m isinform ation based on the incorrect
STOLEN data.
There is an AI m odel that a stranger m ade that exists entirely off of m y artwork specifically to steal directly from  m e. While I do think it
does a poor job of im itating m y work, this is still a clear threat to m y livelihood and a blatant theft of years of m y growth as an artist.
As a consum er, I am  constantly frustrated trying to navigate the way AI has been constantly shoved down m y throat. I'm  exhausted having
to search for im ages or inform ation, looking for truth, only to stum ble upon AI-written word-salad, or a plethora of AI im ages that are
also incorrect. I've now had to alter m y searches to show only results pre-2020 to avoid bad inform ation.
Having such a flawed system  out there, I can't im agine it being used for anything at this point. To think this is used to incorrectly deny
insurance claim s?
Let's say AI does get itself together by successfully stealing from  billions of hardworking individuals. Many businesses are very eager to
fire all their em ployees in hopes to replace them  with AI in order to cut costs. What will happen when there are no Am ericans left to buy
products? It's now m ore clear than ever that "trickle-down" was a big funny joke, since the job creators are so eager to stop creating jobs
altogether.
There is no place for AI, it exists on theft, and it can't even get THAT right.


