PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-yjaf-lm u7
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5100
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
Genera l Comment
AI art has been nothing but a waste of time and money. it has added nothing to any of my experiences whenever its been added into a
system. Wors e still it is ruining the lively hood of countless citizens. Let me be blunt: if you have to steal to make your business work then
you shouldn't be in business. giving a failing business model free reign to keep stealing is just a absolutely stupid idea and that money could
be used on literally anything else. furthermore id be motivated to make sure to never vote for anyone that supporte d to give AI tech
company's more money. they failed to deliver anything that could be considered more then a novelty or a cheap toy. those cheap toys at
least don't suck up rivers and stupid amounts of power unlike AI which takes and takes and gives barely anything of worth that a human
could do just fine.
if you support ai your lazy or stupid or both. stop wasting your time with this garbage it had its chance and it has failed to deliver even
rem otel y on the future it was prom ising. stop f&^% over your own peopl e for a baubbl e that as it is is happy to tell peopl e eating 
glue isfine for you. its stupid and the peopl e that are making it are stupid.
Artists deserv e to keep thei r ability to protect thei r art. making art has been part of th e human experience from th e get go. by giving 
it over to machines with no ability to understan d art you are say ing that vast parts of th e human experience don't matter. an d that is 
bull&^%. id rather my tax dol lars go to things that matter like infrastructure an d trying to fix stuff not som e glorified chat bot.


