PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zhlp-qxo2
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6136
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Joshua Phelan  
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Com m ent on NSF's Developm ent of AI


March 15, 2025 
From: 
Joshua Phelan 
Software Engineer 
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
I’m a software engineer who has been active in the industry for nearly 20 years. I’ve seen 
technology flourish with many incredible breakthroughs. I’ve also seen it abused to enrich some 
at the expense of others.  
The so-called Artificial Intelligence technology we’re seeing now falls squarely into the latter 
category. It’s fed the hard-work of numerous creators and artists without any compensation and 
regurgitates pale imitations devoid of life or meaning. It’s despicable, and the thought of giving 
these companies carte blanche to unbound legal theft is even more despicable still. 
Giving these tech companies, such as Google and Microsoft, the go-ahead to steal the work of 
others won’t usher in a new era of artistic creation, but the opposite. It will stifle true artistic 
creation in favor of a bland mish-mash of second-hand ideas.  
Instead of supporting the horrific acts of these companies the government should be 
safe-guarding t he works of individuals. Any “AI” model trained on a person’s work without their 
consent should be held legally accountable. It is theft on a massive scale. 
Thank you for considering my comments, and I hope you see reason on this matter. 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or conf idential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
1 


