PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-rzit-ai1l
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3076
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Applied Intuition
General Comment
Applied Intuition welcom es the opportunity to respond to the National Science Foundation and the Networking and Inform ation
Technology Research and Developm ent National Coordination Office’s Request for Inform ation on “Developm ent of an Artificial
Intelligence Action Plan.” Please see the attached com m ent.
Attachments
Applied Com m ents on NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479 AI Action Plan


March 14, 2025 
Dr. Lynne Parker 
Principal Deputy Director 
Office of Science and Technology Policy 
Executive Office of the President 
Eisenhower Executive Office Building 
1650 Pennsylvania Avenue 
Washington, D.C. 20504 
Re: Docket No. NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479 “Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action 
Plan” 
Dear Dr. Parker, 
Applied Intuition welcomes the opportunity to respond to the National Science 
Foundation (NSF) and the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development 
National Coordination Office’s (NITRD NCO) Request for Information (RFI) on “Development 
of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan.” As a company focused on improving safety through 
advanced artificial intelligence (AI), Applied Intuition appreciates the ability to provide context 
for how AI-defined technologies, including autonomous vehicles (A Vs) and advanced 
driver-assistance systems (ADAS), can revolutionize our defense and transportation systems. Applied Intuition is a vehicle software supplier that accelerates the adoption of safe and 
intelligent machines. Founded in 2017, the company delivers the AI-powered ADAS/A V 
toolchain, vehicle platform, and autonomy software to eighteen of the top twenty, non Chinese, 
global automakers. Applied Intuition serves the automotive, defense, trucking, construction, 
mining, and agriculture industries. The company is headquartered in Mountain View, CA, with 
offices in Ann Arbor and Detroit, MI, Destin, FL, San Diego, CA, Washington, DC, Stuttgart, 
Munich, Stockholm, Seoul, and Tokyo. Applied Intuition Defense, a business unit of Applied Intuition, is a strategic software 
supplier that accelerates the deployment of next-generation autonomous capabilities to the 
warfighter. Today, Applied Intuition Defense provides rapid, agile software development best 
practices from the commercial automotive industry to major programs across the Department of 
Defense (DOD). Current defense customers include the Air Force, Navy, Army, DARPA, and the 
Chief Digital and AI Office (CDAO). Applied recently acquired EpiSci, a leader in AI and 
trusted autonomy software, which positions Applied Intuition Defense as the premier autonomy 
software developer across all domains-land, air, sea, and space. 1 


In the RFI, the NITRD NCO seeks further information on the highest priority policy 
actions that should be in the new AI Action Plan. As a dual-use AI company, Applied Intuition 
supports the Administration’s efforts to “enhance America’s position as an AI powerhouse and 
prevent unnecessarily burdensome requirements from hindering private sector innovation.”1 
Highlighted below are critical applications of AI technologies that should be prioritized and 
corresponding policy recommendations. 
I. Opportunities of AI in Defense
AI has critical national security benefits for the U.S. military such as supporting rapid
analysis in intelligence; providing early threat warnings through advanced sensing; utilizing 
autonomous vehicles for military logistics; and enabling human-machine teaming. Autonomous 
systems, which rely on AI and machine learning (ML) technologies, can increase mission 
effectiveness, reduce collateral damage, lower costs, offset personnel shortages, and increase 
warfighter safety. Autonomous capabilities that are properly trained and tested have unique 
advantages since computers can operate without fear, bias, or fatigue, reducing the likelihood of 
fatal decisions. In the future, any high-end fight with a near-peer adversary will involve a rapidly 
changing battlespace, a vast number of targets, and new, never-before-seen autonomous 
platforms with software deployed to the edge.2 To maximize these national security benefits, 
AI-empowered autonomous systems must be continuously tested and validated to ensure their 
safety, trustworthiness, and performance before they are fielded. Thousands of "dumb drones" 
are easily defeated; fully-networked, autonomous, and rapidly upgradable drones ensure our 
warfighters will be able to continually adapt to evolving battlefield conditions. A key example of 
the impact of AI software is the war in Ukraine. Russian forces placed tires on their aircraft in an 
attempt to spoof loitering munitions.3 Without a rapid AI retraining pipeline, Ukraine’s 
perception software would have been unable to recognize and destroy Russian assets.  Virtual testing software enables users to evaluate the performance of an autonomy stack 
in limitless scenarios that would otherwise be too difficult, unsafe, or costly to replicate in 
real-world testing. The AI Action Plan should support the DOD’s utilization of an 
enterprise-level, all-domain software development and testing pipeline to drive trusted AI and 
autonomy adoption at the speed of relevance. 
3 Helen Regan and Irene Nasser, “Russia Is Putting Car Tires on Aircraft to Protect Them from Ukrainian Drone Attacks,” CNN, 
September 6, 2023, https://www.cnn.com/2023/09/06/europe/russia-aircraft-car-tires-ukraine-drones-intl-hnk/index.html . 2 U.S. Department of Defense, 2022 National Defense Strategy, Nuclear Posture Review, and Missile Defense Review , 4. 1 Public Comment Invited on Artificial Intelligence Action Plan, The White House, (Feb. 25, 2025), 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/02/public-comment-invited-on-artificial-intelligence-action-plan/ . 
2 


II. Opportunities of ADAS and A Vs in Transportation
ADAS and A V technologies represent an important application of AI-enabled
technologies that are poised to revolutionize transportation. 
a.ADAS
ADAS technologies assist drivers in a number of ways, though they do not take full 
control of the vehicle and always require human monitoring. These AI-powered technologies 
include blind spot and forward collision warnings, lane departure warnings, rear collision 
warnings, automatic emergency braking (AEB) and pedestrian AEB (PAEB), adaptive cruise 
control, and lane centering and lane keeping assistance.4  
Utilizing advanced AI algorithms, ADAS technologies can improve roadway safety by 
reducing the possibility of human error and providing a driver with warnings and course 
corrections they may otherwise have missed or failed to take. A NHTSA study showed that lane 
keeping assist-equipped vehicles are 24 percent less likely to be involved in fatal road departure 
crashes compared to non-equipped models.5 The wider adoption of ADAS can prevent over 
20,000 deaths a year, and prevent or mitigate 1.69 million injuries, based on an analysis by the 
National Safety Council.6  
ADAS technologies are growing increasingly common in passenger and commercial 
vehicles. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) finalized a rule that 
mandates the inclusion of AEB and PAEB in new light-duty vehicles starting in 2029,7 and has 
proposed a similar mandate for heavy-duty vehicles.8 These mandates will greatly expand the 
deployment of ADAS technologies and bring the safety benefits of the technology to millions of 
Americans.  
b.AVs
A Vs are vehicles equipped with an automated driving system (ADS) capable of 
performing the entire dynamic driving task on a sustained basis.9 ADS-equipped vehicles 
9 SAE International, Taxonomy and Definitions for Terms Related to Driving Automation Systems for On-Road Motor Vehicles , 
J2016_202104 (2021), https://www.sae.org/standards/content/j3016_202104/ .  8 Heavy Vehicle Automatic Emergency Braking; AEB Test Devices, 88 Fed. Reg. 43174 (Sept. 5, 2023).  7 Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards; Automatic Emergency Braking Systems for Light Vehicles , 89 Fed. Reg. 39686 (May 9, 
2024) (to be codified at 49 C.F.R. pts. 571, 595, 596). 6 National Safety Council, Occupant Protection: Advanced Driver Assistance System, NSC Injury Facts, 
https://injuryfacts.nsc.org/motor-vehicle/occupant-protection/advanced-driver-assistance-systems/data-details/  (last visited May 
16, 2024). 5 H. Scharber, Estimating Effectiveness of Lane Keeping Assist Systems in Fatal Road Departure Crashes, DOT HS 813 663 
(Dec. 2024) https://crashstats.nhtsa.dot.gov/Api/Public/ViewPublication/813663 . 4 Driver Assistance Technologies , National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 
https://www.nhtsa.gov/vehicle-safety/driver-assistance-technologies  (last visited March 14, 2025).  
3 


navigate the world with a suite of sensor systems, including cameras, radar, and lidar, using AI to 
process the collected data to help plan the vehicle’s route, avoid obstacles, and safely interact 
with other vehicles and pedestrians.  
With nearly 40,000 people killed in motor vehicle traffic incidents last year10 and 
pedestrian deaths on the rise,11 significant improvements to roadway safety are needed now more 
than ever. By removing the potential for human error, whether due to fatigue, intoxication, or 
distraction, A Vs are positioned to reduce roadway deaths and injuries. NHTSA’s own research 
has shown that 55% of all people injured or killed in fatal accidents tested positive for one or 
more drugs, including alcohol.12 Distraction from cell phones is another major factor in roadway 
incidents; drivers using handheld cell phones are two to six times more at risk for a crash.13 A Vs, 
which are incapable of driving drunk, distracted, or otherwise impaired, can reduce roadway 
deaths and other incidents. 
When properly tested using modeling and simulation, in addition to real-world testing, 
ADAS and A Vs are vital applications of AI-enabled transportation technologies and are worthy 
of inclusion in the AI Action Plan. 
III. Policy Recommendations
Advanced AI technologies like A Vs need additional regulatory certainty to improve the
competitiveness of the domestic industry. Current regulatory environments are often very 
restrictive in an effort to address each system’s risks individually. The following 
recommendations would provide clear guidance to U.S. industry, increase roadway safety, ande 
also effectively deregulate certain burdensome aspects of the current regulatory environment that 
are stifling innovation. 
a.DOD Manhattan Project for Autonomy
Despite the fact that software-defined autonomous systems are redefining the modern 
battlefield, the U.S. DOD is underinvesting in autonomy. Despite pressure on service programs 
to respond to this dramatic shift, the DOD struggles to deliver production-ready autonomous 
platforms to U.S. warfighters. Meanwhile, DOD’s existing AI investments are overindexed for 
workflow efficiencies, such as the use of large language models (LLMs), instead of enabling 
13 Distracted driving, Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, https://www.iihs.org/topics/distracted-driving  (last visited March 
14, 2025).  12 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation, DOT HS 813 399, Alcohol and Drug 
Prevalence Among Seriously or Fatally Injured Road Users, (2022), 
https://rosap.ntl.bts.gov/view/dot/65623/dot_65623_DS1.pdf .  11 Governors Highway Safety Associations, Pedestrian Traffic Fatalities by State January - June 2023 Preliminary Data, (2023), 
https://www.ghsa.org/resources/Pedestrians24 . 10 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Early Estimate of Motor Vehicle Traffic Fatalities for 
the First 9 Months (January–September) of 2024, https://crashstats.nhtsa.dot.gov/Api/Public/ViewPublication/813670 .  
4 


autonomous platforms with tactical capabilities. Furthermore, the data to enable command and 
control workflow improvements will not exist without software-defined and autonomous 
capabilities collecting data at the tactical edge. 
Therefore, the AI Action Plan should support efforts to establish a “Manhattan Project for 
Defense Autonomy” with robust funding and authority to deploy software systems at Silicon 
Valley speed. This effort should harness a software development and testing pipeline to ensure 
interoperability of autonomous systems across domains and vendors, while also ensuring 
software can be rapidly updated and tested. Not only will this require significant funding, it will 
require special hiring authorities to staff up quickly including those from industry.  
b.Software acquisition modernization
Given the importance of software on the modern battlefield, it is critical that DOD not 
treat software the same as hardware. Software is never finished. It continues to live and grow as 
conditions rapidly change. Unlike hardware, its evolutions occur in weeks, not years, and if the 
software does not evolve at this speed of relevance, it becomes obsolete. DOD recognizes this 
fact in its Software Modernization Strategy, which states: “fighting and winning on the next 
battlefield will depend on DOD's proficiency to rapidly and securely deliver resilient software 
capabilities.”14 Applied also supports the intent of Secretary Hegseth’s memo, "Directing Modern 
Software Acquisition to Maximize Lethality," issued March 6, 2025 to accelerate software 
acquisition across the enterprise .15 Currently, many of DOD’s largest legacy investments are dependent on a single vendor. 
As a result of past issues with “vendor-lock,” DOD often seeks to own the software it procures. 
This overreaction is counterproductive because the agency lacks the incentive to continuously 
improve and innovate the software it owns and thus relies on outdated software. Instead of 
owning the software, Applied recommends that DOD owns the data it collects from its sensors. 
This data will enable DOD to develop a common operating picture that can be shared across 
domains and areas of responsibility. Conversely, DOD should license software from multiple 
commercial vendors to ensure that DOD gets the best software based on evolving battlefield 
conditions.  
15 U.S. Department of Defense, Modern Software Acquisition to Speed Delivery, Boost Warfighter Lethality , (March. 10, 2025), 
https://www.defense.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/4114775/modern-software-acquisition-to-speed-delivery-boost-warf
ighter-lethality/ .  14 U.S. Department of Defense. Department of Defense Software Modernization Strategy. February 3, 2022. 
https://media.defense.gov/2022/Feb/03/2002932833/-1/-1/1/DEPARTMENT-OF-DEFENSE-SOFTWARE-MODERNIZATION-
STRATEGY .PDF. 
5 


The AI Action Plan should support modernizing the means by which DOD acquires 
software, such as splitting defense hardware & software acquisition for AI-enabled unmanned 
systems, and owning its data while licensing commercial software.  
c.National AV Framework
A V companies are currently burdened by a patchwork of varying state laws for testing 
and deployment on U.S. roads. Applied strongly supports establishing a national framework that 
sets standards for the design, construction, and performance of A Vs and preempts state laws. 
This national framework should also enhance the U.S. DOT’s current data collection efforts 
beyond the current Standing General Order to preempt varying state requirements and to 
improve safety across the industry. The framework should also encourage NHTSA to modernize 
its test infrastructure to ensure A V and ADAS systems are deployed safely.  
IV . Conclusion
Applied Intuition appreciates the chance to provide context on the opportunities for
AI-enabled technologies in defense and transportation. We look forward to continued 
engagement with the Administration to provide subject-matter expertise on the benefits and 
opportunities of AI technologies. This document is approved for public dissemination. The 
document contains no business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may 
be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution. 
Sincerely, 
Nicholas Kazvini-Gore 
Head of Government Affairs, Applied Intuition 
6 


