PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3ob8-ffkd
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9342
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
AI dom inance wont happen if you allow the fuel to leak freely from  the engine.
Whether you need dom inance is another question entirely driven by greed, short sighted viewpoint, lackadaisical understanding of the
subject m atter and general ignorance of econom ics.
To resolve the form er you cannot elim inate content creators and then bem oan the lack of source m aterial for training. You also m ust
understand that regardless of prom ises to the contrary from  corporations with vested interest in over inflating claim s so secure investm ent
(from  both the gullible and the greedy who do recognize a pum p and dum p when they see one), scaling as an approach to AI is
plateauing. It is a copy m achine, a lossy com pression of what it is trained on. It does not extrapolate. It does not exceed. You wont get
"AGI", "ASI" or anything else that grants tactical or technological lead from  scaling ML m odels alone, it cannot be m ore hum an than a
hum an and thats all your leading ML technologies have been trained to do. China has already shown with Deepseek that the investm ent in
m uscle is poor com pared to investm ent in brains. Throttling that for a skeleton crew in an AI corporation rather than leveraging your full
open source and world wide resource is kneecapping yourself.
AI as a business m odel has failed to generate revenue. Has failed to deliver on its prom ises and will continue to do so. Do not be the out
of touch old m en scam m ed out of your country by slick sm ooth talking snake oil salesm en. Make no m istake, this is what you are dealing
with.
AI as im agined by Silicon Valley m agnates cannot turn real profit. It's raiding the till. Even if it ever were to reach the low end of the
potentials prom ised the disruption alone would cripple the econom y with next to zero profits, sim ply accreting all resource to a tiny group.
Their solution? Offload the problem s onto the governm ent that wont be able to afford it.
Within governm ent you will find cham pions for AI's dystopian aspects. Surveillance and disinform ation, autocratic gains. Not for existential
threat but internal. Tantam ount to declaring war on your own population and building big brother. Your job is to represent not rule, and
learn from  the cautionary tales especially presented by those who lived the hell that m an can create - we have not progressed. Those who
see the potential in these nefarious uses of technology cannot be sm art enough to realize that they would only be the patsy to these
corporations, opening a door that results not just in the elim ination of all that annoying bureaucracy bellow them  but in the elim ination of
their own role. That what they see as protection of their governm ent is in fact a sedition, abdication to m ultinational businesses with no
allegiance. They should instead be concerned with protection of their country.
Worse financially while the killer applications of disinform ation, disruption and surveillance m ight seem  solid business m odel, this m akes a
tiny m arket. Once "solved" there's no incentive to pursue other avenues. The system  you build will disincentivize such disruption. You will
both elim inate 80% of the GDP & jobs and stultify your entire intellectual econom y for prom ises that cannot m anifest with this tech stack.
In effect, you will ironically destroy the US AI lead if there is any such thing.
If you pursue the lie of AI m aking prim ary profit you will doom  your country to being a long way from  the top.
All is not lost though! There is only one solution that protects the country. Protects the econom y. Ensures an Am erica First agenda and
you're not going to like it because all of your pies in the sky will com e crashing down around AI. Sure that will happen anyway, but it feels
m ore painful when they're not realized :


Elim inate the prim ary profit m otive, incentivize the secondary.
Secondary benefits from  AI are all within productivity and technological progress, thus econom ic. Unfortunately m ostly it's elim inated by
prim ary profits because innovation requires opportunity, and positive innovation that actually generates GDP and progress requires lawful
opportunity. The other path elim inates innovation and lawful opportunity.
If however you rem ove that prim ary profit m otive, taxing all profit derived from  AI and its content at 100% (which m ight seem  incredibly
hare-brained and scary until you understand the econom ics of what's going on and how this is the single path towards econom ic and
technological dom inance), you will open up the use of AI as augm entation to people and in turn industry. To the academ ic and open
source worlds which have far m ore m inds with far greater potential than m erely those who cannot even build profitable product. Open to
optim ization.
To save the US and its governm ent you will find you m ust constitutionally ban governm ent use of AI.
The econom ic benefit isn't from  m aking AI in any case, it's from  serving it. That's where you create advantage.


