PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-04ot-4tiy
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6364
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Brian Delaney   Email: 
General Comment
To whom  it m ay concern,
I am  a software engineer who has proficiency in ML algorithm s, the type of which are scaled and refined into products such as ChatGPT.
I am  in a better position than m ost to argue that this technology cannot m eet the utopic prom ises of its investors, and that carving an
exception in copyright law for AI firm s, as a likely reading of "unnecessarily burdensom e requirem ents," would do nothing for this country
and everything for gutting the cultural output of our entertainm ent sector and individual artists alike.
We characterize statistical m odels such as generative software via m easures such as specificity and sensitivity, or a m easure of whether the
m odel's output assigns unnecessary im portance to irrelevant detail or m isses im portant detail, respectively. Modern generative algorithm s
score well on the latter, but struggle in the form er. Measurem ents around 0.75-0.8, taken as a proportion of 1, are com m on. In other
words: prom pt a m odel to com m ent on 5 benign scenarios, and it will likely see a warning in 1 where no such concern exists.
Furtherm ore, generative AI suffers from  a "black box" problem , where there is no effective way to reverse-engineer a m odel's outcom e
into hum an-intelligible reasoning, yet such m odels are trusted specifically because they are designed to produce a persuasive, confident
result. "Truthiness, not truth," I've heard said. To trust AI is to give in to staggering statistical error, yet to trust AI, its carefully engineered
prose and sci-fi prom ise of godly intellect lowering our defenses against lies, is hum an. This is not a technology we should stake our energy
grid, defense industries, or any other aspect of Am erican governm ent on.
Yet AI exists and is coddled and fed, due to the incredible m arketing of a sm all num ber of big tech firm s sitting on a half-functional
product, pulling tricks as devious as outsourcing Indian and Moroccan labor in real-tim e to regulate m odel output away from  its irrational
and potentially dangerous extrem es. Research Am azon's "Just Walk Out." Som e of them  are likely bribing this adm inistration and the
architects of this regulation, hungry for an excuse to plunder the intellectual fruits of every Am erican around them , all for what every m odel
suggests will be a m arginal im provem ent. The Chinese DeepSeek m odel has accom plished a sim ilar result without nearly as m uch scraping
of the Internet's cultural output as com panies like OpenAI claim  to depend on. And what of our m ovie scripts, our novels and art, our
research and internal docum ents even? Gristle for the pigsty, replaceable and com m oditized.
Ultim ately, they don't believe in the hum an spirit, m uch less the Am erican spirit. They don't need a free people, their love and duty and
expression, only a balance sheet in the black - did I m ention their investm ent capital isn't sustainable? I im plore m y elected representatives
to protect our people from  a nonfunctional m odel and its greedy investors.
Thank you,
Brian Delaney
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.


