PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2qso-o25f
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8820
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: David Musto
General Comment
Allowing carve outs in copyright law for Big Tech com panies will only encourage them  to harvest m ore work from  hardworking
Am ericans without consent or com pensation, entirely to line their own pockets. 
These AI com panies are largely unprofitable even as they steal thousands of Am ericans' work, and have not provided a genuinely
widespread and tested use-case for their products. This is an attem pt to keep them  afloat as the AI tech bubble begins to burst.
Attachments
AI Action Plan Com m ent


From: 
David Musto 
Translator 
Re: National Science Foundation ’s Request for Information on the Development of an 
Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
I am an everyday American who works as a media and entertainment Japanese to 
English translato r. I have been in this industry for almost a decade, and a professional 
translator for even longe r, and I have seen for myself what rampant usage of AI 
systems will do to hardworking Americans.  
AI systems have been a standard in translation for a decade, and though they have 
they beneﬁts, they have largely been used to devalue language expertise and 
translation skill to pursue low costs and high proﬁts at the expense of the translato r. 
Media and entertainment industries in particular are being infested with poorly 
translated and produced AI editions that make it harder and harder to turn translation 
into a caree r.  
I outline this niche example from my own situation to illustrate a case study in what 
will happen if Big Tech companies are given special carve outs and loopholes in 
copyright laws to allow them to train their AI systems on the work of thousands of 
creators without consent or compensation. These AI systems ingest our work, 
reassemble it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly competing with us and 
cutting us out of the marketplace. 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will 
be stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday 
Americans create a new innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a 
new piece of music only to have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why 
bother creating it in the ﬁrst place? How will we possibly make a living doing these 
things? 


 
 
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new 
copyright exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators 
and everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency. 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues. 


