PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-fi12-2m sa
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1572
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Gusto
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Gusto_NISTCom m entonAI.docx


1 
March 14, 2025  
Office of Science and Technology Policy Executive Office of the President Eisenhower 
Executive Office Building 1650 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20504 
RE: Request fo r Information on Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan 
To Whom  It May Concern: 
Gusto1 is a platform that provides payroll, human resource, benefits, and other products 
designed for small-and-medium sized businesses. We currently serve over 400,000 businesses 
nationwide across all industries, with our typical customer having fewer than 25 employees. 1 in 
6 new businesses in the US choose Gusto to hire their first employee, and we remain 
committed to providing technology solutions to entrepreneurs.   
Our mission is to make entrepreneurship a viable path for every single person in the US, and as 
part of our product suite we offer AI powered tools that solve pain and extend new capabilities to 
small businesses so they can focus on whatever they do best.   
Gusto welcomes the opportunity to respond to the RFI on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence Action Plan, and how the right approach can unlock business formation and growth.  
If you have any questions, please contact me via email at 
Sincerely,  
Steve Abbott  
Head of Government and Regulatory Affairs  Gusto  
1 w w w . gus t o.c om  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 


2 
Small Business are using Generative AI: 
Small Businesses are integral to the American economy, accounting for approximately 44% of 
U.S. economic activity and employing nearly half of all American workers. However, these 
businesses have historically lacked the resources, technical expertise, and capital that larger 
corporations can deploy to adopt new technologies. At Gusto, we are committed to bringing tech 
solutions to small businesses, so they can focus on what they do best, whether it be graphic 
design or hair styling, and the administration of running a business can be largely automated, 
requiring less time and cost.  
Key findings on the use of Generative AI from Gusto’s State of Small Business Survey2 
conducted last year:  ●Almost half of all Small Business owners started using AI in the last year.  Gusto’s
forthcoming 2025 survey of new business formation shows that 47% of all businesses
started using AI in the last year.  Furthermore, in contrast to the 2024 survey, we see no
difference in usage of generative AI between Gen X, Millennial, and Gen Z owners.●Businesses that used GenAI had an easier time hiring. Among businesses that tried
to hire, those that use GenAI were 45% more likely to report that they could fill open
roles than businesses that did not use GenAI. Companies using generative AI
experience fewer difficulties in hiring compared to those that do not. Specifically,
businesses in the community and personal services sectors see substantial benefits.●Employees at businesses that use Generative AI are much more likely to exceed
expectations. GenAI helps reduce workloads, particularly for repetitive tasks, allowing
employees to focus on more impactful business-building activities. That may be why
businesses that use Generative AI report that their employees are significantly more
likely to exceed expectations compared to those that do not use AI. Following the pandemic the US saw a drastic increase in new business starts reversing a 
decades long decline. Technology solutions invariably played a part in unlocking 
entrepreneurship as a viable choice for economic autonomy reducing the time, cost, and 
complexity of the administrative work that owning a business requires. AI lowers the barrier to 
entry for people to start a business, which could cause more people to become entrepreneurs 
with the goal of scaling a company, or more likely an increase in solopreneurs and contract 
workers who traditionally would have been full-time employees.    If Generative AI proves to be the transformative tool we expect, then this should 
continue with implications for our broader economy.  
2 h t tp s: // gus t o.c om/ c ompan y -ne w s/ smb s-using-ai-2024 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 


3 
Policy Principles 
1.Create a Small Business AI Adoption Framework
The AI Action Plan should include a simplified, accessible framework specifically 
designed for small businesses to evaluate, adopt, and implement AI solutions. This 
framework should: 
●Provide clear guidance on identifying appropriate AI use cases for different business
sizes and sectors●Include simplified risk assessment tools proportionate to small business operations
2. Establish AI Technology Access Programs
To democratize access to AI technologies: 
●Create tax incentives specifically for small business AI adoption
●Develop a "Small Business AI Toolkit" with pre-vetted, secure AI applications
●Support the development of open-source AI tools designed for small business needs
3. Address Skills and Knowledge Gaps
Small businesses face significant challenges in acquiring AI expertise: 
●Leverage existing programs through the Small Business Administration to provide
education and resources for small business owners●Support new and existing Small Business Development Centers and the creation AI
hubs where small businesses can access expertise and resources
4. Ensure Reasonable Regulations
Any regulatory framework must consider the unique constraints of small businesses: 
●Implement tiered compliance requirements based on business size and AI application
risk●Ensure that compliance costs don't create unreasonable barriers to entry
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 


