PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0pi1-1kvv
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6809
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
Since AI is trained on the collective work and languages that hum anity has built, any profits from  AI should be collectively divided up
am ong all hum anity present and future. A dividend of ALL profits stem m ing from  AI should be distributed evenly. There should be no
private ownership of AI tools that were trained on data for which they don't have explicit perm ission from  every single source who
contributed. 
All AI m odels should be public and non-profit and unable to charge for their use if they are trained by any source for which they do not
have explicit expressed perm ission (not a default option on a public website or the like). I consider anything else plagiarism  and theft. Why
should som eone be able to profit from  stealing the collective work of hum anity at the expense of others? 
I am  additionally concerned about biases inherent in the data on which AI is trained and its propensity to generate false answers. We need
safeguards in order to ensure we m ove towards a m ore true, just and rational understanding of the world.
I think we need to think carefully and deeply about how to support the growth and developm ent of hum ans in relationship to AI tools.
What processes do hum ans need to engage in to build the kinds of expertise that allow them  to critically and creatively assess the output
of AI? 
I personally do not feel our society is ready to handle the com plexities that are em erging with AI, but at the sam e tim e I do not believe it is
som ething we can reasonably stop. Thus we need to ensure we have a process for assessing harm s (e.g., biased output that leads to
increased surveillance of som eone,lessens their likelihood to be selected for a job). It is im portant to recognize that AI is built on the backs
of everyone who has every spoken, written or created anything in any language or form  and thus any benefits or profits should be
distributed evenly and fairly. I am  am bivalent about whether AI will be beneficial to society, but I am  sure it will not be if we don't actively
work to m ake it free, fair and for our collective benefit not private gain.


