PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-60im -geya
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1423
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  IEEE
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
IEEEUSA_Response to NITRD RFI March 2025


15 March 2025 
To: Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National 
Coordination Office (NCO), National Science Foundation 
In re: Response to the Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan 
IEEE welcomes the opportunity to provide comments to the Networking and Information Technology 
Research and Development, National Coordination Office and the White House Office of Science and 
Technology Policy on the priorities that should be in the new AI Action Plan. 
IEEE-USA represents approximately 150,000 engineers, scientists, and allied professionals living and 
working in the US. Our members are a diverse group of technical engineers, scientists and artificial 
intelligence (AI) governance specialists who develop and work with the emerging technologies used in 
artificial intelligence systems. 
IEEE SA is a globally recognized standards-setting body that develops consensus standards through an 
open process that engages industry and brings together a broad stakeholder community to develop 
approaches and solutions for the pragmatic application of AI systems (AIS). 
To prioritize national security and global dominance in the development and use of AI and AIS, the 
United States Government (USG) should commit to an approach which optimizes current resources, be 
they human or material, and ensures that future resources are developed for continued and guaranteed 
productivity and growth. AI and AIS are multifaceted systems developed by interdisciplinary teams 
across many cross-functional domains. As such, IEEE recommends that the USG: 
1) Enable AI dominance through urgent development of a dedicated AI infrastructure, and use of
standards which ensure AI and AIS interoperability, performance and reliability. 
2) Accelerate AI and AIS innovation through market-driven competition and innovation by
democratizing technologies for national use and investing in emerging technologies and next-
generation technological ventures. 
3) Ensure America’s AI-enabled dominance for future generations by modernizing and creating a
productive and efficient workforce. 
If you have any questions, or wish to discuss the input provided below, please do not hesitate to contact 
Erica Wissolik,  or 


2 1) Enable AI dominance through urgent development of a dedicated AI infrastructure, and use of
standards which ensure AI and AIS interoperability, performance and reliability. 
Require  existing expert bodies, such as OSTP, NITRD and other relevant entities, to conduct a 
thorough assessment of the nation's infrastructure backbone to find where novel infrastructure 
for AI and AIS must be developed or improved. OSTP and NITRD should elicit recommendations 
and comments from public, private, and academic partners for developing novel AI-ready infrastructure, 
or improving existing infrastructure. The infrastructure improvements in question could be related to 
energy or operational efficiency, or secure networking and communication, but we recommend focusing 
primarily on emphasizing the need for a novel infrastructure for AI and AIS networking and 
communication. 
The complexities of a dedicated infrastructure for AI and AIS networking and communication 
can be managed through development of standards. Standardization provides a common language 
for technological innovation and enables developing and implementing complex solutions at efficient 
cost structures. The USG should support standards development for interoperable, performant, and 
reliable AI and AIS. 
IEEE recommends the following: 
1a) AI Infrastructure: The USG should develop an urgent plan for leveraging scalable and resilient 
networking and communication frameworks for AI and AIS. The goal should be development of 
autonomous AI and AIS communication networks along with development of tools with human-centric 
design for system controls and implementation of safety measures. Human-centric design ensures 
having interfaces and protocols which will make it easy for human controllers to monitor, adjust, and 
take over, if necessary, while maintaining oversight even as AI and AIS operate autonomously. 
Existing critical communication and networking infrastructure should be protected in 
conjunction with oversight from USCYBERCOM, and other relevant agencies. The USG should 
seek to implement, via public and private partnerships, a strong digital identity for secure data 
transactions across existing communication networks. The goal should be to revitalize and safeguard 
infrastructure for national security. 
1b) Technical Standards: The USG should require relevant agencies to use clear, adaptable, and 
trustworthy standards for AI and AIS which ensure interoperability, performance, and reliability 
of AI and AIS networking and communication in an interconnected AI infrastructure. The 
adaptability of standards should not sacrifice reliability, performance or security. Interoperability can 
face challenges due to differing standards across systems. Thus, building a dedicated infrastructure for 
AI and AIS requires clear, adaptable and trustworthy standards to ensure performance and reliability of 
different technologies and components. The goal should be to ensure efficient, yet performant, AI and 
AIS so that interconnected systems can be scaled reliably and securely. 
IEEE recommends that the USG require the use of clear, adaptable and technically sound 
standards and frameworks that help ensure AI systems are effective, reliable and aligned with 
broader economic and national goals. Technical standards provide the necessary technical foundation 


3 to help support evidence-based policymaking, regulatory consistency and industry alignment. 
Standards: 
•Establish common definitions, methodologies and benchmarks for AI systems, helping to
ensure consistency across (sectoral, industry vertical) policy frameworks;
•Define parameters for risk assessments and classification frameworks, including providing
testable criteria for AI performance, safety and accountability;
•Help enable global AI interoperability and scalability by contributing to the definition ofbenchmarks for AI performance, robustness and security; and
•Strengthen public-private AI collaboration as they facilitate dialogue between AI developers,regulators and policymakers–helping to ensure that AI policies are practical and technically
feasible.
Technical standards help promote the innovative, trustworthy, and secure development and use of AI 
and AIS. The collaborative processes in which standards are developed support commercialization and 
diffusion of technologies by building consensus on information flows and enabling interoperability of components, manufacturing, and service requirements. Developed through public-private partnerships, 
they provide the foundation for trustworthy, scalable and effective AI systems that drive economic 
growth while supporting national security, technological advancement, and responsible implementation. 
1c) AI Procurement: IEEE recommends that the USG systematically identify areas where agencies 
implement and use AI and enable federal agencies to strengthen their requirements for AI procurement (defined as any process by which entities engage in determining which systems to 
purchase and use for their organizational and productivity needs). Public procurement systems are not necessarily ready for the challenges of procuring AI systems. The multilayered complexity of AI 
systems, and the data sets on which they are built, challenge the staff responsible for procurement, who 
may not understand the systems they are purchasing and deploying.  Most federal agencies have not yet 
adapted their procurement processes and rules to address the emerging complexity. 
IEEE recommends the use of tools that offer complementary how-to-guidance that can be applied 
to a variety of processes, including pre-solicitation and contract monitoring. As part of a broader 
risk management strategy – as recommended in the NIST AI Risk Management Framework (RMF) – 
standards such as IEEE P3119 (Draft Standard for the Procurement of AI and Automated Decision 
Systems,) help strengthen AI procurement approaches with due diligence processes to help ensure that federal agencies are critically evaluating the kinds of AI services and tools they acquire. IEEE P3119 
provides agencies with a method to require transparency from AI vendors about associated risk and can 
also help the USG to use their procuring power to shape the market. This could increase demand for 
trustworthy AI solutions. 
2) Accelerate AI and AIS innovation through market-driven competition and innovation by creating
Centers of AI Acceleration and investing in emerging technologies and next-generation 
technological ventures. 
The USG should incentivize both private and public sector investment for the creation of 
incubators and accelerators to create technological hubs in all parts of the country.  The benefits of 


4 market-driven competition and innovation are obvious but require a carefully balanced and managed 
interplay between public, private, and academic entities for investing in promising technologies, and 
enabling the growth of market-ready ventures. 
The USG should continue to seek out and invest in high-risk, but high-reward, emerging 
technologies which may not be economically feasible or practical for private companies or academia to 
pursue. 
Lastly, the USG should ensure that US regulatory and public policy frameworks do not hinder  
bringing technological innovation to the market. IEEE recommends the following:   
2a) Centers of AI Acceleration: Incentivize the creation of novel technologies, which may open new 
markets. Centers of Excellence are an existing model for the development of Centers of AI 
Acceleration; note that the model for Centers of AI Acceleration should not be only data centers. For 
technologies which promote national or homeland security, the USG should encourage the creation of 
private or academic incubators and accelerators partnered with federal agencies such as the Department 
of Defense or the Department of Homeland Security. However, there is also a need for Centers of AI 
Acceleration for the development of technologies and services which are not meant for defense or 
security. The goal of Centers of AI Acceleration should be to identify research and ideas which can 
address market needs in a targeted manner. 
2b) Future Investments: Empower DARPA, IARPA, and other federal funding agencies to pursue 
research and development in emerging technologies, such as artificial general intelligence (AGI), 
quantum and neuromorphic computing, human-machine information synthesis, advanced robotics, or 
advanced stem cell therapy. DARPA should also create a program for R&D of autonomous systems 
which can withstand extreme environments for enabling deep space exploration via autonomous AI; the 
Arctic region, thermal vents, or the Moon, can serve as useful test beds for developing rugged, all-terrain 
AIS. Deep space exploration will open new economic opportunities for the U.S., e.g., via mining of 
minerals rare on Earth. However, an autonomous network of AI-managed satellites will add both 
security for American national interests, and extend AI and AIS networked communications to space.  
3) Ensure America’s AI-enabled dominance for future generations by modernizing and creating a
productive and efficient workforce. 
The USG should seek guidance on developing a plan for human flourishing which includes 
development of skills necessary to use and deploy AI/AIS. A recent Pew Study found that 52 percent 
of surveyed workers worry about AI use in the workplace [ 2]. The U.S. economy may suffer if 
Americans are wary of innovation or unaware of how to use AI. Prior transformational shifts in the 
economy, e.g., during the rise of Internet and digital technologies, demonstrated that new economies are 
created once an existing workforce gains an understanding and trust of new technologies. IEEE believes 
that governmental, private sector, and non-governmental institutions all play a crucial role in 
maximizing opportunities for students and workers in the emerging AI economy, and in mitigating the 
negative impacts on individuals. To support increased AI and AIS use in the workforce, IEEE 
recommends the following: 


5 3a) Productivity and Flourishing with AI and AIS: The USG should develop a coalition of public, 
private, and academic partners and stakeholders to plan for upskilling workers in different 
domains; upskilling should includ e agentic AI. The American workforce may find it easier to manage 
and trust AI and AIS decisions if consequential decisions are made transparent via the use of Explainable 
AI (xAI) models and frameworks. To optimize physical or manual labor, a coalition of stakeholders 
should determine how to enable safe human-machine teaming AI-enabled tools, such as exoskeletons, 
or augmented vision (for example: firefighters using exoskeleton footwear to combat muscle fatigue). 
3b) Preparing for the Future: The USG should task a coalition of stakeholders to identify 
foundation skills related to working and living with AI and AIS. Ensuring homeland and national 
security in the age of AI and AIS use requires building foundational skills for identifying both normal 
and abnormal AI and AIS behaviors. Some examples of foundation skills related to working and living 
with AI and AIS include managing risky AI behaviors (e.g., when chatbots give bad advice), managing 
AI overreliance and under reliance, identifying automation abnormalities, and understanding how to be 
safe when using such systems. The goal should be to enable effective and safe AI literacy, along with 
targeted upskilling for using, managing, and understanding such systems. 
Secondly, domain-specific opportunities and risks for human-AI partnership should be identified. 
Americans will attain greater productivity by knowing how to navigate their existing work requirements 
with the help of AI and AIS, and how to safely partner with AI and AIS for future work requirements 
and environments. Some examples of domain-specific human-AI partnerships include data center 
automation and management, scientific research and development, managing and controlling 
transportation, and managing and controlling energy efficiency and resources. 
In summary, IEEE recommends: 
1) Enabling AI dominance through urgent development of a dedicated AI infrastructure, and use of
standards which ensure AI and AIS interoperability, performance and reliability, where: 
•a dedicated infrastructure enables AI and AIS networking and communication;
•standards ensure AI and AIS interoperability, performance and reliability;
•AI procurement procedures safeguard both economic and national security; and
•required technical and frameworks are clear, adaptable, and trustworthy.
2) Accelerating AI and AIS innovation through market-driven competition and innovation by
democratizing technologies for national use and investing in emerging technologies and next-
generation technological ventures where: 
•the creation of Centers of AI Acceleration promotes AI and AIS innovation and creates new
economies for future growth and productivity, and
• the US pioneers innovation and technology in emerging fields by enabling high risk, but highreward, endeavors.
3) Ensuring America’s AI-enabled dominance for future generations by modernizing and creating a
productive and efficient workforce where: 


6 •a coalition of public, private and academic partners and stakeholders plan for upskilling America’s
workforce via AI and AIS, and
• we identify the foundational skills all Americans need to be productive in a world with all types of
AI and AIS.


