PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0k6v-iscz
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6698
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Ashley 
McCam mon 
Email: 
General Comment
As a creative professional and teacher, I've spent the last several years increasingly concerned about generative AI scraping and stealing
from  m y body of work and those of m y students and peers. It's incredibly alarm ing to witness the push for that theft to be m ade legal,
unfettered or even condoned by our governm ent. The fad around AI is just that - a fad, a speculative m arket no different on a broad scale
than the NFT grift or cryptocurrency have been over the last decade. And in that fad, these program s provide poor/inaccurate results, and
their process is terrible for our already-strained power grids. AI will not provide a secure ground to build on for the US as any kind of
"powerhouse". It is, at best, a very sim ple tool with lim ited realistic uses at scale, and being full of snake oil salesm en as it is now, it has no
clear place at any technological forefront. 
If its use is a m atter of "national security" for whatever reason, like OpenAI m ight claim , then they and com panies like them  can and should
negotiate with creative workers directly, and pay us fairly for the privilege. Because our copyright protections are not "unnecessarily
burdensom e requirem ents" - it is a privilege for them , that all of our hard work would be saving their businesses and allowing them  to
rem ain com petitive. I do not want m y career, m y hard work and years of education, or that of m y students or m y peers, to be used to
bolster som e failing corporation and their flash-in-the-pan tech fad that claim s to be innovative. Real innovation does not require theft.
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.


