PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-xr9e-09pu
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4597
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Marisa Miller
General Comment
Hello,
I write today from  several perspectives. First, as a citizen, all com panies involved with AI m ust be regulated with accountability to
preserve and protect the data and privacy of that data for every citizen and all groups. As an educator, com panies involved with AI m ust
be prevented from  stealing ('training AI' is stealing if the com pany does not have perm ission to use the m aterial) m aterials and
incorporating inaccurate and disinform ation sources. Too m any of the students I deal with are exposed to profoundly wrong and false,
often entirely m ade up, m aterial. The source of these terrible outputs are derived from  garbage inform ation as source m aterial. As a writer,
I require our governm ent to ensure the strictest standards for the use of m aterials for 'training'. Opt-in should be the only standard and
failing that, all com panies involved with AI should restricted from  using copyrighted sources and the significant efforts of individual people
who do not create art, writings, curated inform ation, and so for the indiscrim inate and illegal taking by AI com panies. I have heard that
CEOs of AI com panies have said their product cannot be profitable if they have to pay people for their m aterials. That is not the
governm ent's problem . What is the governm ent role is to ensure copyright, data privacy, the right to the chosen use of a person's own
work without it being copied and used without perm ission or recom pense, and all other activities are protected for individuals, groups, and
businesses.
Sincerely,
Marisa Miller


