PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-8t3o-tf64
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1445
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Governm ent Agency Type:  Local
Governm ent Agency:  Los Angeles County Chief Sustainability Office
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
AI Action Plan Com m ent Letter 3-15-25


County of Lo s Angeles 
Chief Sustainability Office 
Kenneth Hahn  
Hall of Administration  
500 West Temple Street, Suite  383 
Los Angeles, CA 90012  
Telephone:  
(213)
Board  of Supervisors  
Hilda L. Solis 
First District  
Holly  J. Mitchell 
Second District  
Lindsey  P. Horvath 
Third District  
Janice Hahn Fourth  District  
Kathryn Barger 
Fifth District  
Executive Officer  
Edward Yen 
Chief  Sustainability  Officer  
Rita Kampalath  
March 15, 2025 
Faisal D’Souza 
National Coordination Office 
2415 Eisenhower Ave. 
Alexandria, V A 22314 
Re: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
Dear Mr. D’Souza, 
The County of Los Angeles Chief Sustainability Office respectfully 
writes in strong support of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
that prioritizes reducing AI’s energy consumption and increasing 
energy and water efficiency . This document is approved for public 
dissemination. The document contains no business-p roprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution. 
As AI continues to advance, its growing energy demands must be 
addressed through strategic policy action. Implementing energy-
efficient practices, such as optimizing computing workloads and 
utilizing low -power hardware, will significantly reduce unnecessary 
energy use and lower emissions. Without intervention, AI’s 
escalating energy demands could undermine our broader 
sustainability efforts.  According to a study, by the year 2030, data 
centers may be responsible for up to 21 percent of the overall global 
energy demand when accounting for the cost of delivering AI to 
customers1. Moreover, the negative effects of AI on grid reliability are 
a concern. AI data centers require significant power, and its 
continuous energy use could increase peak load stress, making the 
grid more susceptible to not being able to deliver energy to all who 
rely on it, not just AI data centers. 
A key policy action in the AI Action Plan should be the transition of 
AI infrastructure to 100 percent renewable energy sources, such as 
solar and wind, ensuring net-z ero emissions across all AI-r elated 
operations. Data centers and cloud computing facilities must actively 
mitigate their carbon footprint by integrating energy storage 
solutions, improving cooling technologies, and participating in clean 
energy procurement programs. Strong regulatory measures and 
incentives will drive the adoption of sustainable AI practices while
________________ 
1 AI has high data center energy costs  — but there are solutions | MIT Sloan  


foster ing innovation in energy -efficient AI development. By embedding energy efficiency 
and clean energy use as core principles of AI policy, we can harness AI’s potential without 
compromising our climate goals and commitments.  
Lastly, the  impact AI can have on water demand and usage and energy affordability must 
be carefully managed through sustainable practices and responsible policies. Given that 
AI requires significant computational power and that data centers can consume large 
amounts of electricity, energy costs for consumers, particularly those in areas with significant AI infrastructure, may face increased energy costs. Energy costs in California have increased significantly over the past several year s
2, outpacing the rate of inflation 
by some measures. Additionally, data centers for cooling purposes also consume significant amounts of water. Utilizing water -conscious cooling solutions, including air -
based cooling mechanisms, can help reduce the dependence on water and decrease the strain on water resources. Overall, avoiding unnecessary or wasteful AI applications and user education could be solutions to the potential problems of grid reliability, water demand, and energy affordability.  
Thank you for your consideration.  Should you have any questions regarding this letter, 
please contact me at 
Sincerely,  
Rita Kampalat h, Ph.D., P.E.  
Chief Sustainability Officer  
County of Los Angeles  
2 Rising Electricity Rates in California  


