PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2qb7-2vu3
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8523
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Kyle Gardner  
General Comment
I can't im agine a worse dereliction of duty than to grant these A.I. com panies the ability to com pletely evade the current system s put in
place to protect the rights of artists everywhere. Seem s quite clear that, if granted, this will be nothing m ore than a blatant attem pt to
create a two-tiered system , one set of laissez faire rules for m oneyed interests, who will be allowed anything they want, and strict "Stay
out of these protected gardens" lim its for the hoi polloi. 
I can only predict that this will lead to m any unpredictable outcom es, as it will becom e a fight for creative, financial, and personal survival.
Speaking entirely as a writer who records and shares his writing online, lacking a local social network, it m ay force a shift away from  the
digitally connected future and towards m ore analog, disconnected m ethods. Various digital services have already been so cluttered by the
presence of generatively created garbage as to severely degrade their usability. If actual people start to pull out, if the Internet becom es a
tool of oppression, it will eventually be abandoned; the digital age com ing to an end.
After all, the thieves can only steal what they can grab, what they have access to. If they require m y output to hone their infringing
plagiarism  tools, then I shall deny them , even if doing so lim its m y reach. Whatever dam age is done will be a sm all thing next to the greater
extent I shall avoid. If you think the various sub and counter cultures which com prise the core of the internet will not m ake sim ilar
preservative m easures, than you are chronically offline and are in way over your head.


