PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-xwj9-6og1
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4685
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Anonymous Citi zen 
General Comment
I am  a private citizen. I studied history through school. I write stories and books in m y spare tim e; with the hopes I m ight becom e a
professional som eday. I have friends who are artists, writers, videographers - all varying between levels of sm all-tim e hobbyist to full tim e
successful career.
And I firm ly believe that the United States Governm ent should not allow AI developm ent com panies to circum vent US Copyright Law to
scrape increasing am ounts of data under the guise of "Fair Use".
Under the protection and security of copyright, both Arts and Academ ia have reached scope and capability unseen anywhere else on this
planet any other tim e on this planet. It should be the policy of the US Governm ent to preserve this advancem ent and foster it, not carve
that belief apart to allow private sector com panies access to dissect and, quite literally, copy those works.
It should instead be the onus of those AI developm ent com panies to find new ways to advance. The advent of DeepSeek just earlier this
year should m ake it apparent that their m ethodology isn't the only way forward; with less inform ation and less investm ent cost, DeepSeek
were able to produce an AI com petitive with the furthest iterations of Am erican system s. The solutions Am erican com panies have com e
up with as an answer to this challenge is easily paraphrased as: "We need to do m ore of the sam e of what we're doing to get ahead." 
An adage com es to m ind. "A room  full of m onkeys and a typewriter will eventually produce a play by Shakespeare."
This has been the developm ent process of Am erican AI. They found that shoving m aterial into their system s to find patterns that produce
coherent sentences worked at first - and it worked so well that there was no need to discover any reason to m ove past it. Opening up the
ability for them  to get even m ore data to shovel now doesn't solve the inevitable wall that will com e with their m ethodology when
everything has been fed in. Their m odels don't "learn" anything m ore than how to take what's put in and recreate it word for word.
Copying and Learning are two im m ensely different processes, and the AI Industry's inability to differentiate that fact is leading them  to fall
behind in developm ent by their own volition.
The culture and knowledge of Am erica - the beating heart of what it m eans to be an Am erican - should not be put on an operating table to
be soullessly duplicated by a m achine that is incapable of actually understanding it. To dem olish any respect and agency given to the
people in our nation who create will stifle growth or advancem ent in those sectors, and it'd be solely for the sm all term , single iteration
boost in a new m odel.
Maybe, just m aybe, in their hunt to produce another play by Shakespeare, AI developers should look to actually innovating upon their
system  instead of trying to take another 1000 room s worth of m onkeys.


