PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-cnsg-2pkq
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1909
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Click Therapeutics
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Click Therapeutics - AI Action Plan Com m ent


T. 80 White St 3rd floor,  
New York, NY 10013  1 March 15, 2025  
Sethuraman Panchanathan  
Director  
National Science Foundation  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Attn: Faisal D’Souza, NC  
Subject: Comments on Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (Docket Number: 2025 -02305)  
Dear Director Panchanathan,  
Click Therapeutics ("Click") appreciates the opportunity to provide comments on the Request 
for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan. We strongly 
support the Administration's efforts to sustain and enhance America's  leadership  in AI. As a 
leader in the development of prescription digital therapeutics (PDTs) leveraging AI, we 
believe that fostering innovation in highly specialized and value -add areas of AI, such as 
medical technology, is crucial for maintaining a competitive edge.  
Founded in New York City  in 2012, Click is redefining modern medicine with patient -centric 
digital treatments. Operating at the intersection of biology and technology, Click combines neuroscience with the power of software, creating a new way to treat disease.  We develop, 
validate, and commercialize software as prescription medical treatments for people with unmet medical needs.  Our products are patient -facing mobile applications where the 
software is the treatment; they are not telemedicine. As such, Click develops its PDT 
products in compliance with
 U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations  for 
software -as-a- medical -device (SaMD)  therapeutics . 
As the Trump Administration develops its AI Action Plan, we offer the following 
recommendations:  
1.Awareness and Consideration of PDT Use Cases:  We urge the Administration to
recognize and consider the unique use cases of AI in PDTs, including the application
of generative AI and the utilization of large language model (LLM) foundational
models and agentic AI in deploying patient- facing treatments . This specific area of
AI application requires tailored guidance and regulatory frameworks that are distinct
from what might apply to other AI-enabled  devices, such as image analysis and
pattern detection software in radiology and cardiology;


2 2.Maintaining the Integrity of Regulated PDTs:  A regulatory environment needs to be
established with clear boundaries  that prevent  non- device companion, wellness, or
FDA- exempt software  (including exempt clinical decision support software)  from
expanding their indications, functionality, or marketing claims in a manner that
undermines the rigor and clinical validation of regulated PDTs , which are designed
and indicated to treat disease (i.e., improve clinical outcomes) . It is essential to
preserve the integrity of clinically validated medical devices  to ensure the safety o f
the American public and to provide the trust necessary for wide -spread adoption of
these technologies by clinicians . If implemented in a commonsense manner, c lear
regulatory  boundar ies will allow both categories – non- device and device – to thrive;
and
3.Regulatory Flexibility for AI Innovation in PDTs:  While we believe regulation of AI
technologies for medical uses will ultimately foster American leadership in AI, it must
be fit -for-purpose and commonsense. For regulated medical device software, the
Administration should implement added flexibility to enable the innovative use of AI
without burdensome on -market requir ements. This would include modifying change
control requirements and the criteria for when new pre -mar ket filings are required.
To ensure patients can benefit from the full value of AI in regulated software, aregulatory system that allows for advanced AI featu
res such as personalizing  the user
experience or treatment plan based on individual patient needs , is paramount. This
flexibility should be predicated on a risk -based approach with appropriate controls
and safeguards and should apply both to regulated  SaMD  as well as software for use
in combination with drugs (e.g., prescription drug use -related software).
We offer greater detail on these recommendations and additional policy considerations 
below.  
Supporting American AI Health Industry Competitiveness  
In general, in the context of AI -driven health solutions, we believe that commonsense 
regulation can catalyze innovation and American competitiveness in the global economy. In 
the context of health AI, b y clearly defining the boundaries between , on the one hand,  
generalist, wellness and administrative AI products and , on the other hand,  regulated 
medical devices like PDTs, this Administration can create distinct categories that encourage 
focused innovation. This delineation allows for the development of two thriving sectors: one focused on rapid iteration and broad accessibility in non- regulated categories, and the other 
on rigorous  evidence -based clinical validation for safety and effectiveness in medical 
devices tailored to specific patient populations. This clarity enables U.S. companies to compete globally in both arenas, leveraging the strengths of each category.  


3 Moreover, patient and physician trust is paramount for the successful adoption of any 
medical solution, particularly those incorporating AI. Premarket validation of clinical safety 
and effectiveness by companies for FDA clearance/approval , as is already required  for most  
novel regulated PDTs, is essential to establish and maintain that trust. This regulatory oversight both safeguards patient well- being and provides crucial credibility to enhance the 
marketability and global acceptance of U.S. -developed PDTs. In particular, FDA 
clearance/approval is often either a requirement or can accelerate entry into foreign markets for products that are regulated as medical devices in those jurisdictio ns. In this way, 
thoughtful regulation acts as an enabler, fostering a robust and tru stworthy ecosystem for AI 
innovation in healthcare.  
Commonsense Regulatory Approach  
We believe that achieving the necessary levels of innovation and competitiveness in med tech requires a balanced regulatory approach. This approach should strike a balance 
between ensuring adequate assurance of safety and effectiveness and fostering agile 
regulatory policies that support rapid innovation.  
Specifically, Click encourages the Administration to : 
●Maintain premarket review requirements for AI -based technologies meeting the
definition of a medical device, including requiring clinical validation of nov
el
therapeutic products to establish a baseline for each product’s safety and
effectiveness, to ensure a threshold of product quality and to protect patient safety
as conditions for market ing; and 
●Enforce compliance requirements for AI -based products with a medical device
intended use, such that non -validated non -device products do not ‘drift’ into
regulated indications . This may require clear labeling requirements  and/or product
design guardrails  that clearly delineate validated medical device AIs from non -
validated wellness or administrative AIs (this may require provisions beyond FDA’ s
current authority and/or enforcement by other Departments or Agencies). This will
ensure two distinct product categories are maintained - medical device and non -
device AI - which is essential for securing patient and provider trust and advancing
U.S. competitiveness in medical AI globally.
We believe that establishing clear regulatory boundaries between medical device and non -
device AI will provide consistency for patients, providers and businesses, and creation of a 
level- playing field within each category, allowing for rapid innovation wit hin each product 
type. 
For maximal impact, this regulatory clarity should be combined with greater flexibility for 
medical device AI to encourage the development of cutting -edge AI -powered PDTs. This can 
be achieved with:  


4 ●In the near -term, a  broader interpretation of the Predetermined Change Control
Plan (PCCP) to facilitate iterative improvements and adaptations of AI -driven PDTs ;
●Increased flexibility in change control and prior authorization processes for AI -
driven modifications, provided that these changes adhere to predefi ned
specifications and risk mitigation strategies ; and
●The ability to make AI -driven changes that may impact therapeutic safety and
effectiveness without prior authorization (in contrast to existing requirements for
new marketing submissions). New, innovative  controls for higher risk changes, such
as real- world canar y testing prior to full roll- out and/ or in silico  model -based
testing , could be established to enable these reforms.
We believe it is a worthwhile area for regulatory reform to achieve these changes within FDA 
policy, including any enabling legislation, so long as these reforms retain the right -sized FDA 
regulation and premarket validation requirements for PDTs that are essential for the 
category to remain competitive, a focus of innovation, and an area of U.S. leadership in AI.  
Conclusion  
Click is committed to working with the Administration to develop an AI Action Plan that 
fosters innovation, ensures patient safety, and strengthens America's position as a global 
leader in AI- driven medical technology. We believe that by focusing on specia lized areas like 
PDTs and adopting a balanced , commonsense regulatory approach, the U.S. can fully realize 
the transformative potential of AI in healthcare.  
Thank you for your consideration of these comments.  
Sincerely,  
Click Therapeutics  


