PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 13, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 87-evbo-b105
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1179
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Greta O'Brien  
General Comment
My nam e is Greta O'Brien and I am  a graduating senior at Avonworth High School. I researched the im pact of generation AI on high
school girls' basketball for a sem ester course and recently studied this adm inistration's viewpoint on AI regulation. Based on m y two
m onths of studied research, I think that AI is a powerful tool that can take over if no controls or lim its restrict AI abilities and
enhancem ents. Many aspects of basketball are changing with the introduction of AI, and com puter vision has had the biggest im pact
overall. Scouting apps like Hudl bring a new level of advanced statistics, reports, and gam e/player analysis. This has been very beneficial
for coaches to feel prepared to play against their opponents without dedicating hours of deep-diving articles and websites. Shooting
m achines are also taking a sturdy position in not only being a catch and release to help shooters get m ore reps, but they have now
advanced to personalizing workouts; Dr. Dish is one of the m ost advanced shooting m achine distributors. All of those aspects of the gam e
are very helpful for advancing your gam e, however, the conflict with bringing AI into high school girls' basketball is bringing AI to gam es.
AI-Generated Referees can be the turning point of the gam e. If you play com petitive basketball, you know that one of the m ost gam e-
changing and exciting (or detrim ental) parts of the gam e was the calls the refs were calling, it can either help or hurt. If AI is introduced
that will com pletely shift the gam e from  a free, fun, exciting gam e, to being highly calculated. As an Am erican we are blessed to be in a
free country with such sm art people who put their skills to use and change the world, however, there needs to be lim its. If som ething as
sm all as high school basketball will be affects by AI then m illions of other aspects of life will be changed aswell.


