PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zah0-z8nh
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5692
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I am  aginst the current form  of "AI" being pushed into a m ainstream  usage and letting it go uncontested with no protections to those it
takes from . As som eone who does work and in ties with others who work on im agery and text works, we have an interest in not letting
"AI" take our works into its system  that we do not approve of nor consent to use. 
Below I will list som e things that are problem atic with "AI":
--Letting "AI"/corporate entities pushing for its unrestrained usage, have such free reign would be extrem ely dam aging to creatives and
current organizations that are creating art and other works. This would bypass copyright laws and lead to thefts of peoples hard work.
This is because the current form  of "AI" being pushed is not a actual form  of Artificial Intelligence, rather a program  that takes existing info
fed to it and give results that are close to what the one who asks wants. It does this by taking the creations in both im ages and words of
others(individuals/groups/organizations) without their consent and credit. It crushes and m ixes it together through large power usage and
puts through a product, that is a shadow of the works used. 
--Som e com panies who have gone into this form  of "AI" are starting to realize that the long term  use of it is not profitable nor is it popular,
ones who continue it usage can give unwanted results, even in som e search engines give dangerous results. 
--When it hits copyright not m any individuals would not have m uch to defend aginst such open theft, the larger groups and organizations
would have definitely have issues. Outside of The US, com panies and groups would be further driven away with doing business if
unrestricted "AI" usages steals their assets and there is no protections. Within the country the back and forth usage will cause a self poison
of the "AI" program s and put out unexceptional "work" or dangerous info/im age results.


