PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zej8-tw5m
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5793
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I do not believe the route AI is going will hold a place in the US. Generative AI is an overhyped algorithm  that guesses what words should
follow each other. I fail to see why com panies that specialize in this, like OpenAI, should be given such free reign to take any data they
want. 
Allowing OpenAI to bypass copyright will only harm  countless Am ericans em ployed in m any creative fields. Not being com pensated for
their work being used as training data is harm ful to the livelihoods of m any, especially those who cannot afford the lengthy legal battle of
fighting for their copyrights. If the trend continues, we could easily see m any em ployed creatives and hopeful, artistic children lose out on
job opportunities to a soulless com puter because it costs less. 
This is decidedly NOT a brighter future for these Am ericans.
If these com panies have such problem s with gathering training data, why not hiring consenting creatives to m ake various works for them ?
Or field responses from  the consenting m em bers of the public? I'm  sure there are several would enjoy contributing to AI datasets.
Why steal from  those who do not want AI m im icking their styles?
OpenAI already has partnerships for generating data, such as with Reddit. There is no reason to give freedom  to steal works from
Am ericans. Proponents to this proposal m ay argue that Chinese rivals don't have these lim itations. I would hope those in charge recognize
the value of privacy, ownership, and freedom s that us Am ericans have that Chinese people don't necessarily have. 


