PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-ij1c-va34
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2178
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: John Dziak 
General Comment
Dear President Trum p, National Science Foundation, and AI Action Plan team ,
I urge the President and adm inistration to consider the dangers of advanced artificial intelligence (AI), particularly autonom ous AI agents
and artificial general intelligence (AGI). I am  not confident that they will, or even could, be used as trustworthy tools for the benefit of
people. 
If AGI were developed as m any experts predict, and it could really do all of the intellectual work a hum an being could do, as current tech
corporations hope to achieve, then I think this would be a disaster for m ankind. It would be a disaster even if it was developed in a free
dem ocratic country, although perhaps worse if it was developed in an authoritarian country. The m ost obvious reason is that it would put
hundreds of m illions of people out of work. The second obvious reason is that the electricity and equipm ent required to support these new
system s would cause an im m ense drain on natural resources needed by hum an beings and other living system s.
A potentially worse reason is that an AGI would hypothetically be able to copy and im prove itself, som ewhat analogous to a virus. This
would be a threat unlike any which hum anity has ever faced, although com parable in som e ways to the nuclear arm s race during the Cold
War. It would not be just an issue of Am erica com peting with other nations, but the hum an race as a whole com peting with entities which
could surpass our own abilities. The AGI would not have to be consciously m alevolent like in a science fiction m ovie. Natural entities such
as viruses and hurricanes, and artificial ones such as toxic pollutants, cause im m ense harm  worldwide despite not having any
consciousness or intention at all. Eliezer Yudkowsky, who dedicated his life to studying these issues, says, "Many researchers steeped in
these issues, including m yself, expect that the m ost likely result of building a superhum anly sm art AI, under anything rem otely like the
current circum stances, is that literally everyone on Earth will die. Not as in 'm aybe possibly som e rem ote chance,' but as in 'that is the
obvious thing that would happen.'" 
Fortunately, current AI system s cannot do these things. I hope that they never can, because I want hum an beings to rem ain in charge of
our own future. But even current system s which are called AI, such as ChatGPT, are already causing great harm . Many of them  have
been trained by unethically, and probably illegally, harvesting intellectual property from  the Internet to be processed for use as source
m aterial. Generative AI art program s are already putting artists and graphic designers out of work. Artificial intelligence software is already
being used by tyrannical governm ents to control their citizens. Chatbots are already being used by students to avoid having to learn how to
write clearly, thoughtfully, and articulately. I agree with Karl Sharro that “Hum ans doing the hard jobs on m inim um  wage while the robots
write poetry and paint is not the future I wanted” – but it is the direction in which we are currently headed.
Those with large financial stakes in AI would like to see loosened regulations and increased governm ent support – as any business leaders
would like for their own com pany. But I think we need sensible safety regulation, increased research on safety, and increased cooperation
with other countries on nonproliferation of dangerous system s. At the very least, giant software corporations should no longer be able to
claim  that they can take everyone else's work as "fair use" for their own products. Thank you very m uch for your consideration.
Sincerely,
Dr. John J. Dziak
139 North Main Street, Rear Apt. 2
Old Forge, PA 18518


