PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-erhb-1weo
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1957
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Any form  of AI Action Plan developed, should protect the rights, privacy, and safety of its countries citizens. Prioritizing unhindered
access to large tech corporations like Google and OpenAI, in an arm s race to the bottom , only de-incentivizes the Am erican people's own
incentive for creative innovation. 
The unregulated developm ents of Gen AI system s, have already deeply wounded potential opportunities for work in the creative industry.
Hundreds of thousands of individuals are com peting for far m ore lim ited positions, and no longer able to contribute to this country's
econom y with their unique skill sets, that Google and OpenAI have brazenly scraped, dissem inated, and m ade clear how little respect that
hand crafted works and business by the Am erican people, truly deserve. The entire art team  I was a part of in 2022, was laid off short
after som e of the first burgeoning tech related to Generative AI. Since then, positions sim ilar to the one I had been a part of for 2 1/2
years, are far m ore scarce, and it is only becom ing harder.
There should be explicit transparency for AI generated content under the Adm inistration's AI Action Plan, with an em phasis on a fair and
com petitive m arketplace for the people. Do not let the fear m ongering tactics of a few big tech com panies, m onopolize the interests of the
Am erican people.
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution


