PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-049z-17lf
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6637
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Alex Swift
Em ail:  
General Comment
I firm ly oppose the AI action plan!
1) Generative AI is not a boon to national security – it is a direct threat to it! It m akes creating deepfakes incredibly easy, hypercharging
the proliferation of fake news! I thought this adm inistration wanted to squash fake news – not prom ote it. Giving AI com panies free access
to Am ericans’ personal data will destroy privacy and put everyone in this country at im m ense risk of exploitation.
2) This would be a direct violation of Am ericans’ right to their own intellectual property; there is no valid argum ent for handing private
corporations their creative works and personal data without perm ission or com pensation – ESPECIALLY IF THOSE COMPANIES
WILL CLAIM COPYRIGHT OVER AND MAKE US PAY FOR THE PRODUCTS THEY “CREATE” USING THOSE WORKS
AND DATA!
3) This adm inistration is supposed to serve the Am erican people; not corporations who seek to exploit us for profit without giving anything
in return. AI com panies should not be allowed to reap the benefits of m y hard work for free. I thought this adm inistration was against
freeloading!
Signing this executive order would be a direct betrayal of the Am erican people, including those who voted this adm inistration into office.
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination.
Alex Swift
Attachments
AI Action Plan Response-1


Page 1 
I firmly oppose the AI action plan! 
1)Generative AI is not a boon to national security – it is a direct threat to it! It makes
creating deepfakes incredibly easy, hypercharging the proliferation of fake news! I
thought this administration wanted to squash fake news – not promote it. Giving AI
companies free access to Americans’ personal data will destroy privacy and put
everyone in this country at immense risk of exploitation.2)This would be a direct violation of Americans’ right to their own intellectual
property; there is no valid argument for handing private corporations their creative
works and personal data without permission or compensation – ESPECIALLY IF
THOSE COMPANIES WILL CLAIM COPYRIGHT OVER AND MAKE US PAY FOR THE
PRODUCTS THEY “CREATE” USING THOSE WORKS AND DATA!3)This administration is supposed to serve the American people; not corporations
who seek to exploit us for profit without giving anything in return. AI companies
should not be allowed to reap the benefits of my hard work for free. I thought this
administration was against freeloading!
Signing this executive order would be a direct betrayal of the American people, including 
those who voted this administration into office. 
This document is approved for public dissemination. 
Alex Swift 


