PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-6kq3-8s35
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1424
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
There is no ethical use of AI, and I suspect the current Adm inistration already knows this. AI requires a trem endous energy output, which
will only accelerate clim ate change. I strongly urge this Adm inistration to concentrate its usage of AI solely on those applications which will
directly benefit hum an beings, rather than corporations. 
I advocate strong and sweeping regulation on the usage of generative AI specifically. I ask for legal recom pense to all creatives whose
work was scraped by AI corporations without their knowledge and consent, and without any com pensation given to them  for the labor of
training LLMs which are now being used to replace them  and steal their livelihoods. I ask that restitution be given to all individuals from
the Global South who were paid poverty wages to ensure these LLMs were free from  im ages of violence and abuse before these
generative AI services were unleashed upon the general public.
I ask for regulations preventing AI chatbots, sum m arizers and assistants from  being stuffed into every software service and the price
gouging that accom panies these unwanted "upgrades." I ask that just as we have right to repair legislation, that we now as individuals be
given the option to deactivate and rem ove all AI from  software, from  browsers and from  social m edia sites. 
I dem and laws requiring explicit and clear labeling of AI content on all platform s, and legal penalties for those who continue to spread
dam aging m isinform ation through the use of AI-generated im ages.
If the United States wishes to be a leader in the AI sector, then I encourage the United States to thoroughly investigate any and all AI
service providers, not solely from  an ethical standpoint, but to vet the accuracy of these providers' claim s regarding what their services can
actually do (versus what these com panies hope or wish AI m ight som eday do). I encourage the United States not to em barrass itself nor
to be deceived in its rush for suprem acy in a technology that m ay be nothing m ore than lies and em pty prom ises.


