PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-20ej-xtfm
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8222
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Pornsak Pichetshote  
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
AI letter


March 14, 2025 
From: 
Pornsak Pichetshote 
Writer  
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence ( AI) A ction P lan 
I am a n everyday A merican w ho works as a writer in the film, TV, and c omic b ook industry. I 
have work ed hard for years to devel op the skills and knowl edge to build my business, and have 
been lucky enough to make a decent living and support my family, however: 
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google 
threaten to destroy thousands of American small businesses like mine with their recent 
dema nd to create special carve outs in copyright law. 
AI systems can only be produced by first t raining on work made b y people. My unique work, and 
the w ork o f hundreds o f thousands o f other e veryday A merican c reators w as taken a nd fe d into 
these A I systems w ithout our c onsent or a ny compensation. They ingest our work, reassemble 
it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly competi ng with us and cutting us out of the 
marketplace. 
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to make this practice of steali ng Americ an creators’ copyright ed work legal precedent. 
They are suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow 
suddenl y “fair u se”.  
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regard less of who owns it – 
should be theirs for t he taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to 
rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation. 
Instead, it w ill have t he o pposite e ffect. The p urpose o f American c opyright la w is t o 
protect the incentive to create and innovate.  
Want to protect Ame rican innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemption s that allow Big Tech compani es to exploit and steal from creator s and 
everyd ay American s without permission, compensation, or transparency. 
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator c ontent to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition. The government should 
ensur e that creators and everyday Americans give effectiv e consent , so th at we c an decide 
when and where our work is used by AI systems. Furthermore, the A I Action P lan should r equire 
transparency from B ig Tech c ompanies, requiring th em to d isclose w hat material i s in their 
training d atasets, and l abel what content is AI generated. 
I am not anti -technology  and find  AI systems  can be  incredibly useful for many things. But we 
should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to 
Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.  


 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.  
 
	


