PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0ibd-px0r
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6660
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Sam  K
Address: 
Em ail:  
General Comment
As som e who Jason both their m ain and side incom e under threat due to the advancem ent of GenAI (I call it GenAi to seperate it from  the
concept of actual artificial intelligence), I hope the people elected to represent us will have our ability to work and provide for ourselves
m ore protected from  a technology that is decim ating workforces, both creative and non, across the nation. Tens of thousands are
struggling to survive because com panies so m ore worth in saving m oney with sub par technology than investing in workers with talents and
experience that GenAI could never com prehend and achieve.
GenAI com panies have successfully lied about the capabilities of GenAI, and what it is at its core. It is an advanced agrigator, which
m eans it can only collect from  inform ation already out on the internet, which m eans it is vulnerable to incorrect inform ation and the bias of
whatever data set its pulling from . This cam  lead to dangerous results as m ore people take it for gospel than learn how to properly
research and educate them selves on the m atter. 
GenAI m ust not be allowed free jurisdiction when it com es to finding inform ation for its data sets. The right of people to claim  their work
as their own should not be set aside for people who aim  to destroy entire industries for m oney. I hope our representatives have we, the
people's, best interests at heart and do not side with invasive technology tram pling over our ability to work and enjoys our hobbies
securely. We are not farm s for m achines to take everything we m ake and spit out a worse copy, especially not for free, and not without
the threat of legal action to keep such insidious technology in check.


