PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-yedm -f2nt
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5000
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Allison Mu lder 
General Comment
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.
Hello,
I am  writing in defense of copyright protections, without which whole industries the Am erican public benefits and profits from  would face
great difficulties.
I do not believe AI holds a place in the future of the US, particularly in creative industries. The results of AI are still extrem ely low-quality
and error-prone, costly, and proven to be a turn-off to so m any Am erican consum ers. We have already seen com panies backing away
from  data center leases and other deals after seeing a lack of profit or interest by Am erican consum ers. And the am ount of intellectual
property you would need to feed AI to see any m arked im provem ents sim ply does not exist.
Training AI steals from  Am erican livelihoods on both ends, refusing to com pensate people for what they have created, and threatening
Am erican jobs and incom e in the future as skilled fields are devalued. It profits off of theft, and the hype surrounding it is already crashing
as the initial novelty wears off.
I do not believe the Am erican public wants m ore AI, and in m any ways people are already going out of their way to get as far away from
it as possible.
From  sm all individual creators to m assive corporations with an interest in protecting their IP, allowing AI com panies to transgress on
copyright (particularly without com pensation) is bad for everyone. It's enabling grift, and harm ing the industries that m ake this country
great.
Thank you.


