PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-m p3r-0qo5
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2486
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Anonymous Anonymous 
General Comment
Allowing com panies and m onopolies to have an exem ption from  copyright infringem ent will absolutely destroy the Am erican econom y in
ways that will take years to recover from , if it is not stopped. These com panies have been claim ing they can replace workers with AI, but
workers are essential to the econom y. If no one works, no one can earn m oney to spend m oney. These com panies don't want to spend
m oney to pay workers, but people will not be able to buy their products if AI is used to replace them  out of a job; the m oney m ust flow
and com e from  som ewhere.
Furtherm ore, this risks m aking Am erica's soft power and creative industries rife with subpar creations, weakening Am erica's industry
im age. There is absolutely no need to replace the creative industry with som ething that cannot replace it in the first place. Furtherm ore, AI
poses as a great threat to journalistic integrity, which is already weakening. If com panies are able to freely use any copyrighted m aterials,
they will be able to create fake "actors" from  other people's faces; the possibility of never needing another hum an actor is there, and is that
what we want? 
Quite frankly, these com panies' so called plans for AI are incredibly ignorant of how the rest of the econom y and industries work outside
of Big Tech, but it is trying to reach far beyond it's authority. Other sectors m ust be consulted and there are m any opposing voices in m any
of the industries they are claim ing to underm ine. If this m oves forward then Am erica will have lost it's creative power and the
consequences will be unim aginable.


