PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-m yu0-ib1m
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2504
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Anonymous Anonymous 
General Comment
The solutions suggested do not provide any feasible input for the betterm ent of Artificial Intelligence in Am erica. Com m ercial solutions for
artificial intelligence are being forced without consideration for large scale deploym ent, without careful planning will ultim ately result in
collapse and recession before any goals can be reached.
Am erica lacks critical infrastructure with redundant m odels for producing Artificial Intelligence m odels. The existing solutions com e from
data centers currently owned by individual corporate interests, who as we speak are divesting their Am erican interests in favor of
Am erica's rivals.
Further, current m odels being presented for the general public are built on theft of intellectual property. Make no m istake that other
industries in Am erica are actively being poached, and their work is being stolen. Continuing violations of these rights will create public
distrust in AI Models as a whole - trust which is necessary for the consum ption and continued success of these m odels.
This, com bined with saturation of the m arket that will advance as a result of looser regulations on artificial intelligence, will result in the
rapid deterioration of quality of results produced. 
These holes in artificial intelligence coverage are well understood, and disregarded by industry leaders who, as stated earlier, do not have
the future of this country as the forefront of their interests. 
But enem ies of Am erica are fully aware and ready to exploit these shortcom ings to ensure our failure in the field of Artificial Intelligence,
while their own m odels succeed unim peded.
The success of Artificial Intelligence in Am erica and our positioning as leaders in the upcom ing race for AI requires full trust, investm ent,
and approval from  the public first and forem ost. That will require decisions be m ade that go against the better interest of industry; if those
cannot be m ade clearly and with strict consequence, then Am erica will see our lead deteriorate as the rest of the world develops these
solutions for them selves, with careful acceptance and regulation from  participating countries, using the infrastructure that we lack.


