PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0x5u-5g61
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7284
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
March 15 AI Warning


March 1 5, 2025  
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artiﬁcial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
I am an Ame rican who owns a small visual design business which serves clients in the 
entertainment industry. I have worked hard for years to develop the skills and knowledge to build my business, and have been lucky enough to make a decent living and support my fa mily – 
until recently.  
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to 
destroy thousands of American small businesses like mine with their recent demand to create 
special carve outs in copyright law.  
AI systems can only be produced by ﬁrst training on work made by people. My unique work, and 
the work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators was taken and fed into these AI systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest  our work, reassemble 
it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly competing with us and cutting us out of the 
marketplace.  
Now t hese Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal 
precedent. They are suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted w ork, it is 
somehow suddenly “fair use”.   
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to 
rewrite the law in this way, it will stiﬂe American innovation.  
Instead, it will have the opposite eﬀect. The purpose of American copyright law is to protect 
the incentive to create and innovate.   


If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be 
stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a 
new innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new pi ece of music only to 
have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the ﬁrst place? How will we possibly make a living doing these things?  
Want  to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.  
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:  
•First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give eﬀective
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
•Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the
incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economicvalue, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not
just Big Tech.
•Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what
content is AI generated.
I am not anti -technology or anti- AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and ﬁnd them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacriﬁce the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to B ig Tech by rewriting copyright 
law. 


Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.  


