PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2nz3-qwu6
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8762
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Dan Jones    
Email: 
General Comment
My com m ent is attached; thank you.
Attachments
PublicCom m entOnAI


Dan Jones
3D Artist
Re: National Science Foundation's Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
As an artist wh o ha s worked for the past 18 years in television, film, and video games, and as an avid fan 
of technology in general, I have watched the rise of Generative AI wi th great interest.
While there is clearly potential for these system s to do interesting things (though I would argue they 
have, a s of yet, failed to materialize as anything close to what has been promised) they have alway s been 
a non-starter for me, simply because all of the heavy hitters' models are based on tremendou s amounts 
of theft.
The United States is the center of the entertainment universe, and that is made possible, in part , by our 
copyright system and our protections of intellectual propert y. It ha s never been appropriate to us e 
anothe r artist or author's work for profit without first seeking the legal rights to do so, which would 
typicall y include cr edit and compensation. Any rookie artist in the entertainment industry can tell you 
that they would lose their job in an instant if they took another artist's imagery or an author's words and 
tried to use it in a film o r a television commercial. And yet we have wealthy CEOs (who should and do 
know better) arguing that they sh ould be allowed to use millions  of a rtists' images and authors' written 
word for their own p rofit.
Their defense? "Because we did it alread y. And our business model wouldn't work if we had to 
compensate people for the content we stole."
Well, if your business doesn't w ork without theft, yo u do n't ha ve a b usiness; you have a racket.
That's really all there is to it. If you can't run a GenAI business without theft, you s houldn't be allowed to 
run it.
It really doesn't matter that dozens of tech-lords have already s unk billions of dollar s into a failed 
venture. As the saying goes, "Play stupid game s; win stupid prizes."
As embarrassing as it might be for som e of our biggest tech companies to have egg on their face by 
being forced to start their models over ethicall y, using data they've properly secured the rights to use, 
that is far better than the alternative where we sacrifice our long-lived and robust copyright system in 
service to an as-yet unproven (not to mention incredibly energy-hungry) technology that may or may not 
ever fulfill any o f the lofty promises.


I urge all parties to exercise caution and retain the very necessary copyright guardrails to protect the 
thriving American entertainment industry, and not to be swayed by a handful of rich guys trying to dazzle 
you with glittering fantasies of future benefits that may never arrive.
Thank you,
Dan Jones


