PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-5jug-qgp5
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1417
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  The Institute for Fam ily Studies
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
IFS_AI-RFI-Com m ent


The Future Is Family  
P.O. Box 1502 Charlo1esville Virginia, 22902  
  |  
www.ifstudies.org  
March  14, 2025 
Mr. F aisal D'Souza 
National Coordination Office 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development 2415 Eisenhower Avenue Alexandria, VA 22314  
Subject: AI Action Plan 
This document is a response to the Office of Science and Technology Policy’s request for 
information regarding its development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Plan.
1   
In times of revolutionary technological change such as our own, it is challenging to preserve and 
extol what is distinctly human. This is especially the case when the technological change is state-
sponsored, as AI is becoming under the Trump Administration. In his recent executive order, 
President Trump stated that his administration seeks “to sustain and enhance America’s global AI dominance in order to promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security.”
2 We praise the Trump Administration for foregrounding human flourishing as a primary 
policy objective in its quest for AI superiority and for seeking to direct federal efforts to promote its advancement. 
Though promoting human flourishing is first on the list of priorities for how to sustain and enhance 
America’s global AI dominance, much of the deepest thinking around AI has focused on the 
administration’s latter two policy goals, i.e., economic competitiveness and national security. While these three goals are fundamentally interrelated, human flourishing cannot be simply reduced to economic and military dominance.  
Our comment seeks to offer guidance regarding the administration’s first AI policy goal: the promotion 
of human flourishing. As we and others have outlined in “A Future for the Family: A New Technology 
Agenda for the Right,” a statement that has garnered the support of dozens of eminent conservative 
leaders alongside prominent technologists, human flourishing depends on a culture of thriving 
families.
3 The family begets human children, and it is unmatched in its natural ability to raise them to 
1 National Science Foundation, “Request for Information on the Development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action 
Plan,” Feb ruary  6, 2025, 90 FR 9088.  
2 President Donald Trump, “Executive Order No. 14179: Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artiﬁcial 
Intelligence,” Jan uary 23, 2025, 90 FR8741.  
3 Michael Toscano, Brad Littlejohn, Clare Morell, Jon Askonas, and Emma Waters, “A Future for the Family, A New 
Technology Agenda for the Right,” First Things , January 29, 2025,  See: Appendix 1. https://ﬁrstthings.com/a -future -for-
the-family -a-new-technology -agenda -for-the-right/ 


The Future Is Family  
P.O. Box 1502 Charlo1esville Virginia, 22902  
  |   
 www.ifstudies.org  
be healthy and productive. In other words, there can be no policy to promote human flourishing 
that does not have the objective of empowering and advancing the well-being of families. Conversely, any technological program that undermines the family is opposed to human flourishing. We echo Vice President Vance’s hope that AI can “make people more productive, more prosperous, 
and more free,” as he put it in his February 11, 2025, speech at the Artificial Intelligence Action 
Summit in Paris, France. But as the president’s executive order underscores, ensuring that human flourishing is advanced in the era of AI will require the government to make deliberate policy choices.  
Human flourishing must be a concrete policy goal in an era of technological change, especially when 
the government itself is working to drive the technical revolution. This is one of the fundamental lessons of the digital age. As the first Trump Administration acknowledged in its National Artificial 
Intelligence Research and Development Strategic Plan: 2019 Update, investments by the U.S. Federal 
Government have produced “revolutionary technological advances [that] we depend on today, including the Internet, GPS, smartphone speech recognition,” and more.
4 But while the smartphone 
has offered Americans innumerable conveniences, it has also wreaked havoc on the American 
family. Screen and social media addiction,5 an adolescent mental health crisis,6 hardcore pornography 
made readily available to children,7 and declining literacy rates8—these are just a few of the 
smartphone’s devastating effects on the family. Today, a massive social movement of parents and 
lawmakers has been awakened to rescue children from the harms of screens. It is morally 
unconscionable that parents across the country have been forced to protect their children from 
technologies generated by their own government. While technological innovation often has unforeseen consequences, we strongly believe that a number of these devastating effects could have been mitigated had the federal government taken more responsibility to ensure that the most 
beneficial commercial uses of smartphones were not saddled with predatory add- ons.  
The Trump Administration need not repeat these same mistakes with AI. Today, AI poses 
significant challenges to the family—and, by necessity, human flourishing. AI companies are 
developing 21st century ed tech (which may or may not benefit the family), commercializing AI 
sexual companions, making social media algorithms manipulative and addictive with AI, and advancing new techniques for gene editing and embryo selection. Likewise, some predict that AI and 
4 Executive O ﬀice of the President, The National Artiﬁcial Intelligence Research and Development Strategic Plan: 2019 Update , 
June 2019, pp. 5.  
5 Vaishnavi S. Nakshine et al., “Increased Screen Time as a Cause of Declining Physical, Psychological Health, and Sleep 
Patterns: A Literary Review,” Cureus  14, no. 10 (2022), e30051 . https://doi.org/10.7759/cureus.30051  
6 Jean M. Twenge, “The Mental Health Crisis Has Hit Millennials: Why It Happened and Why It’s Bad for Democracy,” 
After Babel , April 23, 2023 . https://www.afterbabel.com/p/the -mental -illness -crisis- millenials  
7 Michael B. Robb and Supreet Mann, Teens and Pornography  (San Francisco, CA: Common Sense, 2023 ). 
https://www.commonsensemedia.org/research/teens -and-pornography   
8 Dana Goldstein, “American Children’s Reading Skills Reach New Lows,” New York Times , January 29, 2025. 
https://www.nytimes.com/2025/01/29/us/reading -skills-naep.html  


The Future Is Family  
P.O. Box 1502 Charlo1esville Virginia, 22902  
  |   
 www.ifstudies.org  
robotics have the potential to replace millions of American jobs. If such developments are permitted 
without any mitigation, they could have devastating effects on marriage rates and family well-being, as research has shown that access to good jobs increases the marriageability of men in particular.
9 
These are just a few examples in which AI, for better or worse, will have intrinsic effects on the 
family. It is our belief that, like the smartphone, the best of what AI can offer the American family 
will be crippled by allowing these irresponsible outcomes to advance. With AI the Trump Administration should apply the lessons of recent history and choose to guard against family-unfriendly outcomes that undermine human flourishing. By developing a policy framework up front 
that prioritizes the family in its development and governance of AI, the Trump Administration can 
protect and strengthen the American family with AI and keep it from potentially exploitative uses.  
We do not believe that AI is fated to diminish marriage and family life. But without the leadership of 
this administration to ensure that AI is a tool to strengthen the family, it almost certainly will be left 
free to do extraordinary damage. The administration’s AI Action Plan should therefore develop an approach to governing AI to prioritize, protect, and augment the well-being of the family. To help 
realize this positive vision for guiding AI toward human flourishing by way of the family, we 
recommend the following five policy actions: 1) establish the President’s Council on Technology 
and the Family; 2) require family impact and opportunity assessments; 3) incorporate a family-focused strategy and personnel in AI research and development; 4) balance automation with investments in job recovery and skill development; and 5) protect minors from AI-related harms.   
1. Establish the President’s Council on Technology and the Family
The President should establish a President’s Council on Technology and the Family to advise the 
executive branch, including research and development efforts, on how to harness technological 
innovation—including, but not limited to AI innovation—to strengthen families and encourage family formation, how technology-related job losses within certain industries could affect marriage rates, and how to protect families and children against harmful uses of technology. 
The President’s Council on Technology and the Family would be designed specifically to advise the 
executive branch on how to promote human flourishing through technology and to monitor technological threats to family well-being emanating from AI and other advanced technologies. 
2.Require Family Impact & Opportunity Assessments
Federal agencies involved in the research and development (R&D) and/or regulation of AI should 
conduct regular assessments regarding the impact of AI technologies on American families. A good 
9 Grant Martsolf and Brad Wilcox, “Good Jobs, Strong Families: How the Character of Men’s Work is Linked to Their 
Family Status,” The Institute for Family Studies and University of Pennsylvania’s Program for Research on Religion and 
Urban  Civil Society, April 2025  (forthcoming) , pp. 14. https://ifstudies.org/report -brief/good -jobs-strong- families -
how-the-character -of-mens -work -is-linked -to-their-family -status  


The Future Is Family  
P.O. Box 1502 Charlo1esville Virginia, 22902  
  |   
 www.ifstudies.org  
starting point for such assessments would be the statutory language provided by Section 654 of the 
Treasury and General Government Appropriations Act of 1999.10 Using this or similar language, 
agencies should evaluate how or whether a particular AI research project subsidized by the government’s R&D expenditures:  
•strengthens or erodes the stability or safety of the family, including marriage;
•strengthens or erodes the authority and rights of parents in education, nurture, and
supervision of their children;
•helps the family perform its functions or outsources those functions;
•increases or decreases disposable income or poverty of families and children;
•has benefits that justify its financial impact on the family; and/or
•establishes implicit or explicit policy concerning the relationship between the behavior andpersonal responsibility of youth and the norms of rationality.
These assessments should be annually submitted to the subgroups overseeing AI R&D as well as the 
President’s Council on Technology and the Family. 
3.Incorporate Family-Focused Strategy and Personnel in AI Research andDevelopment
Strategy. To ensure that the federal government’s development of AI promotes human flourishing, the administration should expand its strategy to evaluate the impact of AI on the family and develop standards and benchmarks to ensure that AI serves the flourishing of the family. In the prior Trump Administration’s June 2019 National Artificial Intelligence Research and Development and Strategic Plan, the 
Select Committee on Artificial Intelligence of the National Science and Technology Council outlined 
a number of strategies for AI R&D. Among these were strategies to “understand and address the ethical, legal, and societal implications of AI” as well as “measure and evaluate AI technologies through standards and benchmarks.”
11 The federal government should incorporate human 
flourishing, with an emphasis on family well-being, in its strategies and benchmarks. By doing so, this ongoing focus would clearly differentiate the Trump Administration from the previous administration, which did not include such critical assessments in its strategic plan.  
Personnel. To direct AI R&D for the purposes of human flourishing, the administration should 
include in its relevant committees, subcommittees, or working groups personnel who can expertly advise the AI R&D efforts of federal agencies on how not to negatively harm the family. The prior Trump Administration established three committees or subgroups to direct, implement, and 
coordinate AI R&D efforts: The Select Committee on AI, The NSTC Subcommittee on Machine 
10 5 USC § 601 note (Assessment of Federal Regulations and Policies on Families) . 
11 Executive O ﬀice of the President, The National Artiﬁcial Intelligence Research and Development Strategic Plan: 2019 Update , 
June 2019, pp. iii.  


The Future Is Family  
P.O. Box 1502 Charlo1esville Virginia, 22902  
  |   
 www.ifstudies.org  
Learning and Artificial Intelligence, and the AI R&D Interagency Working Group. Should similar 
committees and subcommittees be established during the second Trump Administration, we urge the administration to select members who can speak to the ways that technology can empower or hinder families. 
4.Balance Automation with Investments in Job Recovery and Skill Development
The implementation of AI and automation into American industry offers great promise for the 
reshoring of manufacturing, increasing worker productivity, and growing the economy overall. Yet, 
while extraordinary economic opportunities will be made possible by AI and robotics, such technologies will not benefit all; many, indeed, will be negatively affected, especially families.  
Access to good work has a direct bearing on marriage rates in America, and so this fundamentally 
implicates family well-being.
12 Take trucking as a prime example of the potential for crisis. The 
industry employs millions of working-class men around the country, and as Martsolf and Wilcox show, it fosters relatively high marriage rates for working-class men, especially compared with post -
industrial alternatives in the health-care, retail, and food-services industries.
13 As Jon Askonas and 
Michael Toscano recently wrote in National Affairs , “Firing a host of American truckers in the span 
of a few years would destroy millions of families—a massive negative externality.”14  
Similar concerns have been voiced by this administration. In Vice President Vance’s speech at the Artificial Intelligence Action Summit in Paris, France, he said “We will always center American workers in our AI policy.” He added,  
We refuse to view AI as a purely disruptive technology that will inevitably automate away our labor force. We believe and we will fight for policies that ensure that AI is going to make our workers more productive. 
We applaud the Trump Administration’s recognition that if the federal government is going to 
subsidize AI’s expansion, then it is also responsible for the effects on the American worker, and, in 
turn, the American family. 
In this spirit, we recommend the following actions to help American workers adjust to AI and 
automation within their industries. 
•The President’s Council on Technology and the Family should submit an annual report to
the president on how AI and automation could affect industries that offer “good jobs” to
12 Op. Cit., Martsolf and Wilcox. 
13 Ibid. See: Appendix 2.  
14 Jon Asknonas  and Michael Toscano, “Technology for the American Family,” National Aﬀairs  62 (Winter 2025) . 
https://www.nationala ﬀairs.com/publications/detail/technology -for-the-american- family  


The Future Is Family  
P.O. Box 1502 Charlo1esville Virginia, 22902  
  |   
 www.ifstudies.org  
workers, which foster high marriage rates among American workers, e.g., trucking and 
manufacturing. 
•The Trump Administration (TAA) should urge Congress to renew and expand the TradeAdjustment Assistance program (which expired July 1, 2022). The renewed TAA should
establish a Technology Adjustment Assistance program at the Department of Labor (DOL)
to provide aid to workers who lose their jobs or whose hours of work and wages are reducedas a result of technology-related job losses and disruptions.
•The Trump Administration should direct the DOL’s Employment and Training
Administration to assess how it can provide companies with grants for employee retraining
in industries heavily affected by technology-related job losses, to upskill their workers andkeep them employed.
•The administration should direct the Department of Commerce to assess how it can awardregional development grants to areas hardest hit by technology-related job losses.
•The administration should have the Secretary of Labor issue guidance clarifying that
individuals whose primary occupations are at high risk of automation or AI displacement
qualify for Dislocated Worker services under Title I of Workforce Innovation andOpportunity Act (WIOA).
•The administration should further direct Workforce Development Boards (WDBs) to
incorporate data on AI-related displacement risks into their local plans as required by 20
CFR § 679.560.
•The Employment and Training Administration (ETA) should work to initiate notice -and-
comment to update WIOA performance accountability provisions under 20 CFR Part 677
toward developing standardized metrics for tracking reemployment outcomes in AI -
impacted industries (see: 29 U.S.C. 3141).
•Local WDBs should be instructed to prioritize short -term AI upskilling programs, including
micro-credentials and AI literacy training, as allowable under 29 U.S.C. 3174 (Adult and
Dislocated Worker Employment and Training Activities) as well as state-level "rapid
response" programs.
•The Secretary of Labor should use its discretionary authority over demonstration grants andpilot programs (29 U.S.C. 3224) to pilot an AI Reskilling Demonstration Grant program for
jumpstarting AI-assisted forms of accelerated education and retraining in collaboration with
WDBs, community colleges, and private technology companies.
•The administration should direct the DOL to reprioritize existing grants and education and
training programs to favor AI-robust occupations, trades apprenticeships, etc.
•The Trump Administration should encourage blanket WIOA waiver requests under 29
U.S.C. 3249(i), provided they present an AI-focused reform strategy.
We encourage the Trump Administration to treat these policy actions as mere starting points for 
deeper policy engagement on how to ensure that AI and automation benefits the American worker 
and strengthens the American family. 


The Future Is Family  
P.O. Box 1502 Charlo1esville Virginia, 22902  
  |   
 www.ifstudies.org  
5.Protect Minors From AI-Related Harms
AI poses unique harms t o minors who, due to their ongoing development, lack the maturity to use 
advanced technologies with discernment and responsibility. This is true not only in matters of 
education, where AI shortcuts the learning process and entices students to plagiarize. It is also true socially and relationally. Today, partial or complete images of minors have been used to create AI-generated deep-fake child sexual abuse material (CSAM).
15 Some companies are even marketing apps 
that can AI-generate videos of one kissing his or her “crush.”16 Innocent-minded minors may think 
nothing of this, but bullies and bad actors have leveraged such AI to criminally harm others by generating CSAM. Likewise, in an era such as ours, where human interaction is mediated principally through screens, AI intelligence and chatbots can easily appear indistinguishable from human beings, 
especially to minors. Consider the case of 14- year-old Sewell Setzer who was encouraged by a 
Character.AI chatbot to take his own life.
17 Children who grow up in homes without their married 
biological parents are especially at risk. As research from the Institute for Family Studies has shown, 
young adults from non-intact families are much more likely to be open to AI friendships and 
romantic partners.18 More generally, research by the IFS finds that 25% of American young adults 
(ages 18-39) believe that AI has the potential to replace real-world relationships. This despairing 
view of what AI could portend could have a devastating effect on marriage rates (and therefore, fertility), as desires to marry and have kids are directly connected to hope for the future. For that 
reason, the Trump administration should fundamentally oppose the commercialization of romantic 
relationships with AI and robots.
19 
The administration should work with Congress and direct relevant federal agencies to monitor AI-
based plagiarism and AI-related criminal activity as well as to take steps to ensure that minors are 
protected from AI-generated CSAM, AI chatbots marketed as “friends” or “romantic partners,” and other AI-related harms. In general, AI sexual or romantic companions are predatory and should not be permitted to come to market in the United States. Within AI regulation and R&D, potential AI-
15 David Thiel, “Investigation Finds AI Image Generation Models Trained on Child Abuse,” Stanford Cyber Policy 
Center, December 20, 2023 . https://cyber.fsi.stanford.edu/news/investigation -ﬁnds -ai-image -generation -models -
trained -child- abuse  
16 Michael Reed, “AI Software Creates Fake Kisses, Sparks Concern Among Experts,” Glass Almanac , Feb ruary  24, 2025. 
https://glassalmanac.com/ai -software- creates- fake-kisses -sparks- concern- among- experts/  
17 Kevin Roose, “Can A.I. Be Blamed for a Teen’s Suicide,” New York Times , Oct 24, 2024, 
https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/23/technology/characterai -lawsuit -teen-suicide.html  
18 Ken Burchﬁel, Jared Hayden, and Michael Toscano, “Young Adults from Intact Families Are Less Comfortable with 
AI Relationships,” Institute for Family Studies, Feb ruary  12, 2025. https://ifstudies.org/blog/young -adults- from -intact -
families -are-less-comfortable -with-ai-relationships  
19 Wendy Wang and Michael Toscano, “Artificial Intelligence and Relationships: 1 in 4 Young Adults Believe AI 
Partners Could Replace Real -Life Romance,” Institute for Family Studies, Nov ember  12, 2024. 
https://ifstudies.org/blog/artificial -intelligence -and-relationships -1-in-4-young- adults- believe- ai-partners- could -replace-
real-life-romance 


The Future Is Family  
P.O. Box 1502 Charlo1esville Virginia, 22902  
  |   
 www.ifstudies.org  
related harms to minors should be a critical part of any Family Impact and Opportunity Assessment 
(see above) and should be annually reported to the subgroups overseeing AI R&D, as well as the President’s Council on Technology and the Family. 
Conclusion 
We commend these policy actions to the Trump Administration as essential to the development of a 
policy approach to AI that promotes human flourishing. They will enable the administration to 
evaluate and monitor AI’s effect on the family on an ongoing basis and recommend further policy 
actions that can empower families with the benefits of technology and protect them from technological threats.  
Respectfully, 
Michael Toscano 
Director, Family First Technology Initiative 
Institute for Family Studies 
Jared Hayden 
Policy Analyst, Family First Technology Initiative  
Institute for Family Studies 
Enclosed:  
Appendix 1: Michael Toscano, Brad Littlejohn, Clare Morell, Jon Askonas, and Emma Waters, “A 
Future for the Family, A New Technology Agenda for the Right,” First Things, Jan 29, 2025. 
Appendix 2: “Table 6: Adjusted rates of married family formation rates by industry,” from Grant Martsolf and Brad Wilcox, “Good Jobs, Strong Families: How the Character of Men’s Work is Linked to Their Family Status,” The Institute for Family Studies and University of Pennsylvania’s 
Program for Research on Religion and Urban Civil Society, April 2025 (forthcoming).  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential 
information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution. 


A new era of  technological change is upon us. It threatens to supplant the human person and make the family 
functionally and biologically unnecessary . But this anti-human outcome is not inevitable. Conservatives must 
welcome dynamic innovation, but they should oppose the deployment of  technologies that undermine human goods. We must enact policies that elevate the family to a primary constituency of  technological advancement. Our aim should be a newly re-functionalized household for the twenty-first century .
Technology is meant to empower the human person. We have seen, however, that if  left ungoverned, technological 
advancement too easily comes to hinder human flourishing and threatens the human person and the family . Many of  the most important political questions of  our day have been prompted by the moral implications of  new technol -
ogies: Should human life be artificially created or destroyed? Can people change genders? Should digital obscenity be accessible to all age
s in the name of  free speech? Should jobs that sustain families be automated? We must discern 
prudent ways to govern technology in order to keep the human person, human dignity , and the common good as the central goals of  our politics. We must ensure that new technologies serve human life and the human family , not the other way around. 
Our present technologies are not, however, designed to serve the family . They were developed to accomplish military , 
bureaucratic, and corporate purposes, without regard to effects on families. American technology has undermined the moral authority of  parents, the procreative potential of  spouses, and the ability of  families to shape their commu -
nities; it has commodified the data, relationships, and bodies of  children; and it has enabled the out-sourcing of  jobs that once supporte d 
a healthy marriage culture among the poor and working class. This crisis affects almost every as -
pect of  our national life. The family generates society , and a culture of  thriving families is an indispensable condition of social health. A nation that  is host
ile to the family is hostile to itself.
Conservatives should push for policies that support economic dynamism and innovation, but we must recognize that the market has failed to produce a technological order that uplifts the family . Rather, that order too often attacks it at the root. 
As scholars, writers, and policy experts, we believe that public policy should direct technology toward the flourishing 
of  the family and the human person. Our laws and regulations must seek to form a technological order that provides a functional economic role for the household, protects human sexuality , rewards marriage, enriches childhood, pre -
serves parental and communal authority , enables the practice of  liberty , and ennobles our common life. These human A FUTURE FOR THE FAMILY
A New Technology Agenda for the Right


2goods are fundamental for thriving families and they must be guarded and advanced amid revolutionary technologi -
cal change. To these ends, we offer the following ten guiding principles for empowering families through technology:
1.Respect the natural cycle  of  mortality by healing or mitigating chronic disease rather than pursuing radical life
extension, and palliate the suffering of  terminal illness rather than artificially accelerating death.
2.Support women in their natural ability to conce ive, gestate, birth, and nurture children, rather than seek to bypass
or short-circuit the female body or reduce it to organs for rent.
3.Protect human sexuality from ongoing commodification and dehumanization by violent pornography , digital
prostitution, child sexual abuse material, deepfakes, AI sexual companions, and sex robots.
4.Work to wrest childhood from the  grip of  social media and smartphones and encourage free play and personal
interaction in their place; hold companies accountable for designing platforms to undermine human well-being
and exploit the most vulnerable phases of  childhood development; and remove screens from the center of  theclassroom while restoring physical books and the mechanical arts.
5.
Oppose the political economy of  addiction embedded in t he software and user interfaces of  smart devices, which
capitalizes upon compulsive use, surveillance, and disembodied relationships. Encourage the growing market
of  smart devices that offer tools for productivity and connectivity only , while ensuring that smartphones are notrequired to fully participate in our economy or society , but remain a true consumer choice.
6.
Legislate toward a restore d republican culture in a digital age by giving citizens ownership over their own data;
protect privacy by blocking the transformation of  everyday appliances into surveillance systems; and requireplatforms to build robust tools that give users transparency and choices about the algorithms that construct theirfeeds.
7.
Favor technologies that  enhance local and familial autonomy through right-to-repair laws, open-source software,
and open-platform designs, all of  which make technology less reliant on distant power centers. Oppose the impo -
sition of  universal technological changes, such as the EV mandate, that undercut the capacity and responsibilityof local actors.
8.
Favor technologies t hat enhance human skill and improve worker satisfaction over those that degrade or replace
human labor, thereby increasing productivity and growing working-class wages. Balance the pace of  automation
by investing in job recovery and skill development to buttress a family wage in the most affected industries, espe -
cially those that foster higher marriage rates.
9.Accelerate the transition t o a new household economy , clear away policy restrictions on home production, and
shape labor laws and tax policy to adopt flexible work models that strengthen families and reinvigorate communi -
ties, while also taking measures to protect the home from managerial overreach and the disruption of  family life.
10.Launch projects that encourage man’s cultivation of  the natural world and elevate the human spirit, such as a
renewed manned spaceflight program and the tech-enabled rewilding of  parts of  the American West. Dismantlegovernment incentives that push the American people toward artificial or virtual substitutes to embodied life,such as subsidies for lab-grown meat and a liability regime that punishes embodied industries and activities.
These guiding principles will lead to deep and needed reform of  our existing technological order. Whenever technol -
ogy ceases to supplement other human goods and threatens to become a substitute for them, we are in danger, all the more so when technolog y a
ttacks human life at its root by subverting and replacing the family . The family plants the 
seed and forms the foundation of  the future, through the begetting and raising of  children who will carry the human project forward. As such, the family , technology , and a dynamic and fruitful future are intrinsically connected, and the 


3present conflict between them must be overcome. To undermine the family is to undo the future; to strengthen the 
family is to fill the future with possibility , invention, and hope.
Affiliations are for identification purposes only.
AUTHORS:
Michael T oscano, executive director, Institute for Family Studies; director, Family First Technology Initiative.
Brad Littlejohn, fellow, the Ethics and Public Policy Center’s Technology and Human Flourishing Project.Clare Morell, fellow, the Ethics and Public Policy Center; director, Technology and Human Flourishing Project; 
author of  the forthcoming book The Tech Exit (June 2025).
Jon Askonas, assistant professor of  politics, The Catholic University of  America; senior fellow, 
Foundation for American Innovation.
Emma Waters, senior r e
search associate in the DeVos Center for Life, Religion, and Family at The Heritage 
Foundation.
SIGNATORIES:
Ryan T . Anderson, president, the Ethics and Public 
Policy Center.
Erika Bachiochi, fellow, the Ethics and Public Policy 
Center; editor in chief, Fairer Disputations.
Oren Cass, founder and chief  economist, American 
Compass.
Miriam Cates, GB News presenter, senior fellow at the 
Centre for Social Justice and former Member of  Parliament. 
Matthew B. Crawford, senior fellow, the University of  
Virginia’s Institute for Advanced Studies  
in Culture.
Christopher DeMuth, Distinguished Fellow in American 
Thought , The Heritage Foundation;  
Chairman, National Conservatism Conference.
Patrick J. Deneen, professor of  political scie nce, Univer-
sity of  Notre Dame.Robert P . George ,
 McCormick Professor of  Jurispru -
dence, director of  the James Madison Program  
in American Ideals and Institutions, Princeton  
University .
Mary Harrington, author of  Feminism Against Progress.
Y oram Hazony , chairman, Edmund Burke 
Foundation.
Yuval Levin, director of  social , cult ural, and constitutional 
studies, the American Enterprise Institute.M. Anthony Mills, senior fellow and director of  the
Center for Technology , Science, and Energy at theAmerican Enterprise Institute; senior fellow, PepperdineUniversity’s School of  P ub
lic Policy .
Joshua Mitchell, Department of  Government, Georgetown University .R. Albert Mohler Jr .,  preside nt
, Centennial Professor
of  Theology , the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary .
C. C. Pecknold, associate  professor of  theology , The
Catholic University of  America.Nathan Pinkoski, research fellow, Institute for 
Philosophy , Technology , and Politics.
Ramesh Ponnuru, editor, Na
tional Review.
R. R. Reno, editor, First Things.Kevin Roberts, Ph.D., president, The Heritage Foundation.Christine Rosen, senior fellow, the American 
Enterprise Institute.
Leah Libresco Sargeant, aut hor of
 The Dignity of  
Dependence.Ari Schulman, editor, Th e Ne
w Atlantis; fellow,  
Cosmos Ventures.O. Carter Snead, Charles E. Rice Pr ofe
ssor of  Law
and Concurrent Professor of  Political Science,
University of  Notre Dame; fellow, the Ethics andPublic Policy Center.
Eric Teetsel, executive  vice pr
esident, Center for  
Renewing America.Carl R. Trueman, professor of  bib
lical and religious 
studies, Grove City College; fellow, the Ethics and  
Public Policy Center.
Andrew T . Walker, associat e professor of  Christian ethics 
and public theology , the Southern Baptist  
Theological Seminary; fellow, the Ethics and Public Policy Center.
Brad Wilcox,  Me
lville Foundation Jefferson Scholars 


4Foundation University Professor of  Sociology ,  
University of  Virginia; Future of  Freedom Fellow, Institute for Family Studies; and nonresident se
nior fellow, the Amer-
ican Enterprise Institute.
Jared Hayden, Policy Analyst , The Institute for 
Family StudiesWes Hodges, Acting Director of  T e
ch Policy , The Heri-
tage FoundationJaron Lanier, Scie nt
ist, author of  Who Owns the Future, 
pioneer of  Virtual Reality technologySpencer Cox, Governor of  UtahJohn Stonestreet, President, Colson Center for Christian 
Worldview
Audrey Tang, Cyber Ambassador, TaiwanBenjamin Olson, Advisor at AI & Faith, Head of  Re -
sponsible AI for Windows at MicrosoftE. Glen Weyl,  Resear c
h Lead, Microsoft Research Plural
Technology Collaboratory; Founder, RadicalxChange Foun-
dation and Plurality Institute
Tim Goeglein, VP of  Go vernment Relations, Focus on 
the FamilyGeorge A. Dunn, Indiana UniversityKaty Faust, Founder and President, Them Before UsKeith Rothfus, Former Member of  CongressKyle Washut, President, Wyoming Catholic CollegeJake Meador, Editor-in-Chief, Mere OrthodoxyJames R. Wood, Assistant Professor of  Religion 
and Theology at Redeemer University
Andrejs Berdnikovs, Re sponsib
le Technology Catalyst
Mark R. Kremer, Publisher, Mere Orthodoxy;  
Executive Director and consultant with the Institute 
for Christianity and Common Life
Mary Wakefield, Commissioning Editor , The 
SpectatorMichael Naughton, Director, Ce nt
er for Catholic 
Studies, University of  St. Thomas (MN)Mois Navon, National Advisor on Art ificial
 Intelligence 
Policy and Regulation National Advisor on Artificial  
Intelligence Policy and Regulation Ministry  
of  Innovation, Science and Technology , Government of  Israel; Lecturer, Ethics in AI, Ben Gurion Univ e
rsity
Nathanael Blake, Fellow, Ethics and Public Policy Center
Roland Millare, Vice President of  Curriculum,  
St. John Paul II Foundation
Charles Carman, Catholic Univ ersity of  America
Emily Harrison, Writer & Speaker, DearChristianParent.
Substack.com
Steve Watters, FamilyMakingNeil White, University of  Colorado, Boulder, Laboratory 
for Atmospheric and Space Physics, RetiredAlex Duvall, MD, Family Physician, Georgetown, SC
Joseph Green, Student Benedictine CollegeGrayson Quay , Author of  The Serpent’s Promise Greg Scott, President - Messaging WellSamuel O. O. Ofili, University of  Nigeria, NsukkaC. Ben Mitchell, PhD, Professor and author
Michael W . Stajduhar, Commissioner, Cass County 
Indiana
Dr . Mark W . French, Professional EducatorT . J. Gentry , Sr. Pastor, First Christian Church, West 
Frankfort, Illinois
Dan Van Syoc, Col, USAF , MC (ret)Dr . Elizabeth Y oumans, Chrysalis InternationalShane Walters, God’s Missionary Church James A Hutson, Living Waters MinistryJudy Stewart Dick, Hilltop Christian FellowshipLuke Daniel Batty , Ph.D., Postdoctoral Researcher, 
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals
Jan Frederic Dudt, Grove City College Professor of   
Biology , and teaching required course Studies in Science 
Faith and Technology 
Shane Gr een,
 Ratio Christi; Colson Fellows
Randy Bosma, Zion Christian School - Byron Center, MIDaivd English, Former Director of  Global OpportunitiesJose Ziebarth, Founder of  Alliance AletheiaAdrian J Reimers, Holy Cross College Rev. Camilo P Alcomendras, MD, MPH, Logos 
Christian Ministries, Inc.
James Osborne, Pastor
Rick Ha rig
, Legacy Resources, L.C.C.
Tim Park, SBCZach Michel, Colson Fellow In-TrainingWill Orr-Ewing, Smartphone Free ChildhoodMarilyn J Williams, Retired TeacherDan Hoekema, Christian Reformed ChurchSr Mary Murphy , Servants of  the CrossKen Schilf, Lutheran Church—Missouri SynodDr . Paul R Isensee, Retired Pastor and Professor Nathan Carter Johnson, New College Franklin Peter Costea, Attorney (Houston)Donald Keyes, Village Church of  MariemontMarcus Johnson, Moody Bible InstituteStephen H. Cartwright, Elder, Athens (TN) church 
of  Christ
Gina Scheer, SocialRe je
cts.org
Kent Beebe, Harvest ChurchJohn D. Koch, Jr ., Rector, St. Luke’s Anglican Church


5Christopher Berndt, Teacher
Nathan Stenzel, New St. Andrews CollegePhilip D. Bunn, Assistant Professor of  Political 
Science, Covenant College
G. Shane Morris, The  Colson Ce
nter for Christian
WorldviewJason Adkins, Minnesota Catholic ConferenceHerman Middleton, You Are Not A MachineEmile Doak, Chelsea AcademyK.Nelson, Classical EducatorTerry Leigh Perrine, Director, WRGN, a local,  
listener-supported, non-commercial Christian radioCharles Rickey , Grace House  Minist
ries
Dr . Jonathan Len Vowell, PhD, The Center for 
Western Studies (Memphis, TN)
Jacob A Rogers,  Associa te Priest at Saint Luke’s 
Anglican ChurchKyle Sheets, PAPA Missions
Andrew Noble ,
 What Would Jesus Tech
Joseph Andrew Heurion, Discipleship Pastor Brad Sears, Deacon, Presbyterian Church in 
America 
Richard Anthony Gallenstein, Catholic  
Univ e
rsity of  America 
Rowena Easton, Artist , Art Director ROSA 
MagazineSheila Vamplin, Licensed Marriage and F amily 
T
herapist, DMin Spiritual Formation
Patrick Trepanier, American R estraint
Jo Smith, BitcoinLance English, Calvary Baptist ChurchBrian Burnett, PhD StudentJanet Stewart, RNC-MNNJoy Durand, EFCAMark R Scanlan, MDDennis L. McCurley , PhDKathy Morrison, R.N.Julie N. Hartman, PhD Odilon ConservaLarry MayerLinda A MacMullenGilberto C. LopezMark RossLarry KirklandRichard McFarlanePaul BelligAngela PeelerJeff RowbothamDennis KistnerCynthia AlbertFrank CorahDeborah Lock T om Mandt Jeff Koshoshek Eric Bezko Paddi Fairclo  
William R Pittman Frank Hester Dana St JohnRob SchripsemaPeter G FullerPhil MeadeRonald KruegerCraig CliffordShon PanDavid Mark GreavesCheryl Jontz Christopher CoombsDon ParishMatthew Erwin Laura LewisMargaret ParksDouglas HepnerErik Andrew AftonRick LindsayMark RobbBrad BellRon RyndersCaroline IannucciJeff CrosbyDale HeuerNancy CatañoDon BurmeisterRick KuhnBob ConardJoshua J. BowmanJohn MelilloAlexander Tyndall Kun Keith Klundt Matt Brodie


 


