PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-xm 5t-kg7w
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4510
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: David Mariotte  
General Comment
The conversation around AI and it's role in our daily lives is em barrassing. I work in the creative industries as a com ics editor and writer. I
com e across copyright every day in m y work--from  acquiring titles and filing copyrights with creators, to m aking sure that copyrights are
printed correctly on work for the sake of individuals and com panies, to having to know what exists under copyright and what is already in
the public dom ain. It is a huge part of m y livelihood. And as a creator m yself, it is m assively im portant that the things I m ake rem ain under
the copyright laws we have now. 
Generative AI has done nothing to benefit anyone. The com panies that're chasing it, like OpenAI, have yet to post a profit--because AI
doesn't m ake m oney. They've also said that they won't m ake a profit, unless they're allowed to dism antle our copyright system  for their
training. Good. There's no reason for their business to exist. It doesn't work with the law as it is. The AI com panies have either openly, or
in the process of m any legal proceedings already, adm itted to intellectual property theft. Many system s have had to be shut down for
giving m isleading inform ation--both the inconvenient, like system s that were practically giving away cars, and the dangerous, that provided
inaccurate and harm ful m edical inform ation. Consum er trust goes down when AI are added to system s, in large part due to the
inaccuracies. 
Sim ply put, our AI Action Plan should be com plete divestm ent. Am erica doesn't need to be the leader in a scam  that, again, so far doesn't
even accom plish it's goal of m aking the wealthy wealthier. To develop a plan to infringe upon copyright, privacy, and the interests of
businesses both large and sm all is sham eful. 


