PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-m 7tw-m w6s
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2450
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: BRIAN REYNOL DS 
General Comment
I have spent m y life working in the creative arts and I am  deeply troubled by the reckless advance of AI efforts without heed to the
consequences. I have seen the developm ent of AI that is trained on the hard work and talent of experienced artists which then renders
their work devalued and the future of the creative arts in general endangered. All of this technological advancem ent is built on the notion of
being first and claim ing all the benefits in the nam e of exclusive ownership, but the costs of such advancem ents com e from  the individuals
whose livelihood his dam aged in the process. There HAS to be som e tem pering effort to this advancem ent. A level of recognition that just
because we *can* m ake AI happen that m aybe we should proceed with caution. Already the developm ent of AI has had an im pact on
m y career where the job opportunities of skilled creative experience is being supplanted by m ediocre AI approxim ations and I fear for the
future when people just throw up their hands and say “you can’t stop progress”. Is this progress? Replacing hum an talent with AI
approxim ations? What about future generations of artists who never realize their potential because it’s so easy to just push buttons in a
com puter and have som ething “good enough” be produced?
That’s not even touching on the vast resources of power and infrastructure that is being spent to power these developm ents. The am ount
of m oney and energy put into these efforts could be used to support the wellbeing of thousands or m illions of people. Real people’s lives
could be im proved with that effort. The cost of living could be reduced. 
We should seriously be paying attention to the consequences of all this effort instead of recklessly pursuing it in the nam e of capitalism  that
benefits the few while harm ing m any.


