PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-xfm d-ygo6
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4615
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
I’m  the sole proprietor of what you m ay call a sm all business, and I specialize in drawing and writing stories that m any Am ericans find
entertaining, inform ational, and even inspiring. The pay isn’t as great as what people outside m y industry expect for the am ount of work
and resources I put into it, but I have worked hard for years to develop the skills and knowledge to build m y business. I’m  proud of the
books I’ve created as well as the sm all life I’ve created for m yself. I’m  also proud to have m entored rising artists in hopes of giving them  a
better perspective of our ever-changing industry in publishing.
The AI system s m ade by Big Tech com panies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy thousands of Am erican sm all
businesses like m ine with their recent dem and to create special carve outs in copyright law.
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. My unique work, and the work of hundreds of thousands of
other everyday Am erican creators was taken and fed into these AI system s without our consent or any com pensation. They ingest our
work, reassem ble it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly com peting with us and cutting us out of the m arketplace.
Now these Big Tech com panies are asking this adm inistration to create exceptions and loopholes to m ake this practice of stealing
Am erican creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a m achine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it
is som ehow suddenly “fair use.”
They seem  to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim
that if this adm inistration does not allow them  to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle Am erican innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of Am erican copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the Am erican people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the
incentive to create? If everyday Am ericans create a new innovative piece of com puter code, a new visual design, or a new piece of m usic
only to have it im m ediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly m ake a living
doing these things?
Want to protect Am erican innovation? Protect Am erican creators. Do not create new copyright exem ptions that allow Big Tech
com panies to exploit and steal from  creators and everyday Am ericans without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency.
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech com panies, but rather on ensuring a fair
m arketplace with com petition:
• First, the governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, so that we can decide when and
where our work is used by AI system s.
• Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is
preserved. Our work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just
Big Tech.
• Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their
training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.


I am  not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am  consistently im pressed by the capabilities of these AI system s, and find them  incredibly useful for
m any things. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Am ericans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting
copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to com m ent on these im portant issues.
Attachments
Re NSF's Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an AI Action Plan


March 15, 2025
From:
Ru Xu
Independent Artist and Author
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request fo r Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI ) Action Plan
I’m the sole proprietor of what yo u may c all a smal l busines s, and I specialize in draw ing and 
writing s torie s that many Americ ans find entertaining, informatio nal, and e ven inspi ring. The 
pay isn’t as great as what people outside my industry expect for the amount of wor k and 
resources I put into it , but I have worke d hard for year s to develo p the skills and knowledge to 
build my business. I’m pro ud of the book s I’ve create d as we ll as the sm all life I’ve create d for 
mysel f. I’m also pro ud to have mentore d rising artist s in ho pes of giv ing t hem a  better 
perspective of our ever-c hanging in dustry in p ublishing.
The AI systems mad e by B ig Tech companies lik e OpenAI (Microsoft) and Goog le th reaten to 
destroy thousands of American sma ll businesses lik e mine with their recent demand t o create 
specia l carv e outs in copyright la w.
AI system s can only be produced by first tr aining on w ork made by people. My unique wor k, and 
the wor k of hundreds of tho usands of other everyday Americ an creator s was taken and fed into 
these AI systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest our wor k, reassemble 
it, and then sell it bac k to our client s – directly competing wit h us a nd c utting us out of the 
marketplace.
Now these B ig Tec h companie s are asking this administratio n to create exceptions and 
loophole s to make this practice of stealing Am erican creator s’ copyrighte d work legal 
precedent. They are suggesting that if a m achine ingest s and r eproduce s copyrighted w ork, it is 
somehow suddenly “fair use .”
They seem to believe that anything and ev erything on the internet – regardless of who ow ns it – 
should be their s for the taking. They claim that if t his administratio n do es not allow them to 
rewrite the law i n this way, it will stifle Americ an inno vation.


Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to protect 
the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be 
stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a 
new innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to 
have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? 
How will we possibly make a living doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday 
Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective 
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the 
incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic 
value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not 
just Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, 
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what 
content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard 
work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright 
law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


