PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-gy3l-i3il
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2110
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Save Our Standards
General Comment
Com m ent from  the Save Our Standards Coalition attached.
Attachments
SOS Response to AI Action Plan RFC


The Save Our Standards Coalition’s Response to the Request for Information on 
the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
Submitted March 15, 2025 
I. Introduction
Save Our Standards is a broad-based coalition of innovators, small businesses,
associations, academics, and consumer groups dedicated to reinforcing the voluntary FRAND 
licensing commitment and its important role in technical standards to enable competition and 
innovation that directly benefits consumers. We work to educate decision-makers and 
stakeholders on policies that allow all innovators to thrive through pro-competitive practices and 
the reinforcement of fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory licensing terms for 
standard-essential patents. SOS welcomes the opportunity to provide feedback responding to the 
Request for Information (90 FR 9088) on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan1.  As it formulates an Action Plan, SOS respectfully requests that the Administration 
consider the following points: ●A critical challenge to U.S. leadership in standardization,2 and particularly the use of
technical standards, is the ready availability of injunctions or exclusionary relief in
certain courts and administrative bodies for standard essential patents (SEPs). SEPs are
patents that have been voluntarily contributed to industry technical standards by their
owners, who make binding commitments to license them on fair, reasonable, and
non-discriminatory (FRAND) terms.  Yet some of these owners – most of whom are
foreign entities targeting U.S. companies – renege on their FRAND commitments. They
leverage injunctions and exclusionary relief to impose excessive, non-FRAND royalties
on licensees.  This behavior disadvantages U.S. companies, chills standards adoption by
U.S. industry, inhibits technological innovation and harms the standardization process
itself.●The United States should lead the way in curtailing such SEP abuse by supporting efforts
here and abroad that decrease this behavior.
II. The Value of Standard Setting in AI Development and the Need for American
Leadership
The potential benefits of industry standardization for AI development are well
recognized.  In the first Trump Administration, Executive Order 13859 on Maintaining American 
Leadership in Artificial Intelligence outlined how the “United States must drive the development 
of appropriate technical standards and reduce barriers to the safe testing and deployment of AI 
2 For the purposes of this submission, “standardization” refers to the formal process of developing and establishing 
technical standards through Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) where contributions and FRAND 
commitments are voluntarily made. 1 The consensus views expressed in this submission do not necessarily reflect the specific individual organizational 
positions of each member. 


 
technologies in order to enable the creation of new AI-related industries and the adoption of AI 
by today’s industries.”3   
Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick recently testified at his confirmation hearing, 
standards are “the right model” for advancing American interests in AI:  “Set those standards so 
the world heeds our standards and goes with our standards, would be very important for America 
and something I’m going to try to drive.”4  Likewise, Michael Kratsios, President Trump’s 
nominee to lead the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy and Science Advisor 
to the President, observed when testifying before Congress in 2023 about AI governance: 
“Beyond research, the government should convene stakeholders, provide direction, and assert 
American leadership at international standards organizations.”5   
The potential benefit of relying on the participation of the private sector and other 
stakeholders in AI development is that it enables approaches “that are potentially more adaptable 
to the demands of a rapidly evolving technology.”6  American companies have been at the 
forefront of AI development, and the United States must harness and foster their continued 
innovation.  The best system for doing that is by continuing to rely on private industry supported 
by the government. 
While American standardization efforts should be led by the private sector, the U.S. 
government has a critical role to play by participating in and supporting those efforts.  The U.S. 
government should assist industry by providing resources, including investing in research to 
maintain American preeminence in AI, and drive standards contributions.  As outlined below, the 
Trump Administration should also take steps to ensure that AI standardization is not undermined 
by problems that have plagued other technologies, such as cellular and increasingly Wi-Fi.  The 
traditional U.S. approach to standard setting, where the government promotes and supports 
private, voluntary, and consensus-based standard setting, is the right one. III. The Promise of Standard Setting Too Often Falls Short 
For all the potential benefits of standard setting promoting AI development, there are 
clear risks to this approach that are evident from current challenges in standards development.   
A. SEP Injunctions, Particularly from Foreign Companies, Threaten U.S. 
Businesses and Consumers 
Two of the greatest challenges currently facing standardization are unfair SEP licensing 
practices and the availability of injunctions and other forms of exclusionary relief.  The unfair 
enforcement of SEPs has been long recognized as a threat to the adoption and success of 
standards.  In 2013, for example, the Federal Trade Commission recognized that “[s]eeking and 
threatening injunctions against willing licensees of FRAND-encumbered SEPs undermines the 
6 Guidance for Regulation of Artificial Intelligence Applications at 8, OMB Memo 21-06, Nov. 17, 2020.  5 Michael J.K. Kratsios, Statement before the Science, Space, and Technology Joint Investigations & Oversight and 
Research & Technology Subcommittees United States House of Representatives at 5, Oct. 18, 2023. 4 Nomination Hearing – U.S. Secretary of Commerce at 2:08-2:09, Jan. 29, 2025.  3 Executive Order 13859 of February 11, 2019, Maintaining American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence. 
 
- 2 – 
 


 
integrity and efficiency of the standard-setting process and decreases the incentives to participate 
in the process and implement published standards.”7 
All too often, foreign companies use SEP injunctions to target American companies.  
Certain foreign courts have attracted SEP holders as litigants because they are willing to issue 
injunctions on SEPs, despite the fact that the SEP owners have willingly committed to license on 
FRAND terms.  And because these courts are in countries with significant economies, an 
injunction can be devastating to an American company and provide significant bargaining 
leverage.  Foremost among these jurisdictions is Germany, where one study found that of the 171 
global SEP litigations between 2010 and 2023, 122 of those disputes involved an injunction 
request in Germany, of which 90 were at least partially granted.8   
The cost of such foreign SEP injunctions is staggering.  The same study estimated how 
much leverage these SEP holders gain through an injunction by considering the annual cost of 
injunctions issued by German courts.  For example, the study considered the German injunction 
issued against Ford in 2022 at the request of IP Bridge, a Japanese patent assertion entity backed 
by the Japanese government,9 on a patent claimed essential to the 4G standard.  The study 
estimated that Ford would have suffered annual losses of $1.207 to $1.593 billion in foregone 
sales and from recalling and destroying vehicles.  By contrast, IP Bridge was seeking a royalty of 
up to $20 per vehicle for a license to the patent pool in which it was a member, resulting in 
annual global royalties for Ford of about $66.5 million.  The annual cost of an injunction was 
thus about 18 to 24 times higher than the royalty demand.   
In those circumstances, the only rational economic decision is to pay the demanded 
royalties to avoid the debilitating costs of the injunction, even if the demand is well above 
FRAND.  But when that happens, American consumers suffer as increased costs are passed 
through to them and because innovation and competition decrease when the pro-competitive 
benefits of industry-led standard setting are undermined.10 
Ford is not alone in being a target of foreign SEP injunctions.  In 2023, Huawei obtained 
an injunction in Germany against Amazon routers relating to claimed-essential Wi-Fi SEPs, 
which quickly led to a settlement in March 2024.11  Huawei also targeted Netgear routers on 
claimed Wi-Fi SEPs, pursuing cases in Germany and also at the newly established Unified Patent 
Court (UPC) in Europe.  In December 2024, Huawei obtained a seven-country UPC injunction 
against Netgear, which was forced to settle just weeks later.12  In 2022, Huawei also pursued 
German SEP injunctions against Stellantis, a car conglomerate that includes the Chrysler, Dodge, 
Ram, and Jeep brands, which apparently led to a settlement.   
12 Sisvel, Netgear becomes the latest licensee of the Sisvel Wi-Fi 6 pool, Jan, 4, 2025.  11 Huawei, Amazon and Huawei sign global patent agreement, Mar. 5, 2024.  10 A. Doug Melamed & Carl Shapiro, How Antitrust Law Can Make FRAND Commitments More Effective, 127 Yale 
L.J. 2110, 2116 & n.17, 2132 & n.77, 2133 (2018). 9 IP Bridge, IP Bridge Enters Into License Agreements With 10 Companies, Jan. 25, 2019. 8 John Hayes & Assaf Zimring, Injunctions in Litigation Involving SEPs, at 241, GRUR Patent 6/2024. 7 Federal Trade Commission, Analysis of Proposed Consent Order to Aid Public Comment, Matter of Motorola 
Mobility LLC and Google Inc., File No.  at 2 (Jan. 3, 2013).  
 
- 3 – 
 


 
The risk of SEP injunctions is not just confined to Europe.  India’s High Court of Delhi 
held in 2023 that Indian courts “can and should” issue injunctions before a FRAND 
determination has even been made.13  And courts in Colombia and Brazil have been willing to 
grant preliminary SEP injunctions with little opportunity for a defendant to meaningfully contest 
the merits.14 
U.S. courts remain a model for the world, because they have understood that such SEP 
owners in reality are seeking money, not an injunction.15,16  If SEP licensors actually succeeded 
in permanently excluding products containing their SEPs from major jurisdictions, not only 
would the product company fail in that jurisdiction, but the SEP licensors would too – because 
they make their money licensing patents to manufacturers.  Because the whole point of 
voluntarily contributing their patents to a standard is to broadly license those patents for money 
to standards users, it is clear that licensing fees (i.e., money damages) will make SEP licensors 
whole in any case where they can require the product manufacturer to pay.    
Nevertheless, unfortunately, the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) has different 
rules, and has become a favored destination for SEP monetizers—primarily foreign entities 
targeting U.S. companies—to seek a quick exclusion order to use as leverage in licensing 
negotiations.  Although ITC exclusion orders are governed by a “public interest” standard under 
19 U.S.C. § 337, the ITC has yet to recognize the severe harms to the public interest that occur 
when SEP holders leverage the threat of excluding imports of products.   
Notably, that leverage is usually employed by foreign SEP holders.  Since 2013, 14 of 16 
ITC investigations involving SEPs have been pursued by foreign companies—with the other 2 of 
16 pursued by non-practicing entities)—and American companies have been targeted 69% of the 
time.   B. Non-FRAND SEP Royalties Distort Standards Development 
Excessive, non-FRAND royalties can also affect the development of standards 
themselves, risking the inclusion of inferior technology in standards and chilling standards 
adoption, which in turn reduces consumer choice while increasing prices.  The ability to obtain 
above-FRAND royalties creates exaggerated incentives for firms to focus on maximizing their 
SEP counts—rather than ensuring that standards incorporate the most useful or cost-effective 
technology.   
Certain standards participants have been found to engage in “just-in-time patenting,”  
whereby they “apply for patents of low technical merit just before a standardization meeting, and 
then send the patents’ inventors to the meeting to negotiate this patented technology into the 
standard.”17  Another tactic some standards participants have adopted is to seek continuations for 
17 Byeongwoo Kang & Rudi Bekkers, Just-in-Time Patents and the Development of Standards, 44 Rsch. Pol’y 1948, 16 Apple Inc. v. Motorola, Inc., 757 F.3d 1286 (Fed. Cir. 2014) 15 eBay Inc. v. MercExchange L.L.C., 547 U.S. 388 (2006) 14 See, e.g., Ryan Davis, Colombian Court Ends Patent Injunction on Apple 5G Devices, Law360 (Nov. 17, 2022); 
Nokia Interim Report for Q1 2023, at 24 (April 20, 2023). 13 Intex Techs. (India) Ltd. v. Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (Publ), 2023:DHC:2243-DB   85 (High Ct. of Delhi 
at New Delhi Mar. 29, 2023). 
 
- 4 – 
 


their patents after publication of the relevant standard, then tailor those patents’ claims to cover 
the standard after the fact (thus making them “essential”).  Indeed, one study found that 84% of 
SEP continuations were filed after publication of the standard and that standardization leads to an 
80-121% increase in the probability that a continuation will be filed—an effect that “is largest for
firms that collect most of their revenue through licensing.”18  These distortions can have adverse
effects on the quality of standards when companies advocate for inferior or unnecessary
technologies in order to increase their SEP counts and licensing revenues.19
In response to these problems, some aggressive SEP licensors advance a false narrative 
that frames SEP licensors as “innovators” and SEP licensees as “implementers” that simply 
adopt standards into their products without further innovation.  Relying on this false distinction, 
they argue that standards cannot exist if they, the “true innovators,” are not adequately rewarded 
by recouping their investments through patent royalties.  Based on this premise, these SEP 
maximalists advocate for permissive legal regimes that allow them to exert maximum leverage 
against potential licensees—often accompanied by threats that they will withdraw from 
standardization efforts if they do not get their way.   
This rhetoric, however, does not match reality.  A study of 2020 R&D expenditures in the 
smartphone industry estimated that downstream firms accounted for 95% of the $38 billion in 
R&D expenditures related to smartphones, while upstream SEP holders accounted for only 5%.20  It is not, and has never been, the case that only a few companies contribute to standards 
development, such that the above-FRAND royalties that SEP monetizers seek are necessary for 
the standardization system to thrive.  In fact, there are many reasons why companies that develop 
and sell products without seeking to monetize their patents participate in standards development, 
including: (1) ensuring that the standards they support are widely adopted, thereby creating new 
sales opportunities and access to new consumers and geographic regions; (2) developing 
expertise in the standardized technology to ensure that their engineers can create products that 
take advantage of the standard’s features; (3) guiding the development of standards to ensure that 
they meet the needs of the market; and (4) mitigating the risks of a go-it-alone approach to 
expensive R&D endeavors. 
IV . Concrete Steps for the AI Action Plan
Based on the risks outlined above, the Save Our Standards Coalition respectfully submits
that the AI Action Plan include the following steps to ensure that standardization efforts benefit 
America in leading in AI innovation and not become a tool to undermine U.S. competitiveness: 
1.Work with Congress to seek to limit the ability of foreign SEP holders to target U.S.
companies with injunctions abroad.
20 Raphaël De Coninck et al., SEP Royalties, Investment Incentives and Total Welfare, at 3 (2022).  19 Melamed & Shapiro, supra note 8, at 2116. 18 Cesare Righi & Timothy Simcoe, Patenting Inventions or Inventing Patents? Continuation Practice at the 
USPTO, at 2 (Feb. 2022).  1948 (2015). 
- 5 –


2.Exert influence on foreign governments to rein in their courts from facilitating the
hold-up of American companies through SEP injunctions.
3.Take steps in the U.S. to limit SEP hold-up, including (a) reforming the ITC to limit
foreign companies from pursuing costly SEP exclusion orders and (b) opposing efforts to
do away with the Supreme Court’s unanimous eBay decision, authored by Justice
Thomas, which removed the presumption of injunctions in patent cases.
*** 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential information.  Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
- 6 –


