PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-l026-qixv
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2371
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
Several argum ents have been m ade for allowing AI to be freely trained on copyrighted work:
1) Training AI on copyrighted work constitutes Fair Use
2) Training AI is a m atter of national security
Point 1: Training AI on copyrighted work is not fair use, especially in the realm  of creative works.
Per Section 107 of the Copyright Act, “Fair Use” considers the com m ercial effects of using the copywritten m aterial. It takes m oney and
extensive expensive resources (such as servers, electricity, water for cooling, and so on) to train AI, so unless the com panies training the
AI are receiving m assive subsidies from  governm ent sources (which is som ething DODGE and current adm inistration is actively trying to
cut down on) com panies training AI will ultim ately need to recoup their financial losses, which m eans the ultim ate end-goal of AI training is
to create a salable product: a program  that can generate work sim ilar to what it’s been trained on, just faster, cheaper, and m ore prolific.
This isn’t a not-for-profit venture. This directly dim inishes the value of the copyrighted work used in the training m odel.
This is a direct violation of Fair Use.
This is why copyright law requires com panies and other entities to purchase the rights to use copyrighted work. Selling these rights still
provides econom ic viability to the original work. Bypassing this clause destroys the econom ic value of the copyrighted training m aterial.
Furtherm ore, rem oving these protections from  copywritten work will dam age the Am erican econom y as a whole.
Given the EU’s laws on AI, if the USA passes laws that don’t protect the work of Am erican creators then these Am erican citizens will
preferentially sell, ship, and distribute their creative output within EU circles to prevent them  from  being available to US AI training
m odels. This will not only lim it data available to US AI training m odels, it will cool the Am erican production of books, m ovies, gam es, and
other creative works while providing a significant cultural and econom ic boost to the EU. Essentially it will allow the EU to becom e a
bastion of “hum an creativity” and allow them  to corner the m arket of consum ers who want hum an-created products while depriving AI
training com panies m aterial to work with.
If AI is allowed unfettered training access to copyrighted works, Am erican cultural contributions to the arts will virtually disappear.
Hum ans will be discouraged from  developing skills to create m ovies, stories, art, and so on, leaving AI training m odels with less and less
“fresh” m aterial to train on as people sim ply opt out of the act of creation. This also m eans Am erica m edia products will becom e m ore and
m ore AI created m ash that generates nothing new or innovative, ultim ately driving down dem and for Am erican AI products. In short, the
long-term  effect of allowing AI to be freely trained on copyrighted work is the ultim ate loss—not gain—of data for these program s. Yes, it
will require m ore financial investm ent to train AI if they m ust buy rights from  copyright holders to train using their data, but protecting the
rights of creators ensures that there will still be people creating fresh data to be used for training in the future.
To prevent strangling the long-term  availability of training data and handing over econom ic dom inance of art and entertainm ent to foreign
nations we cannot allow AI training to bypass copyright law and protections.
Point 2: Training AI without respecting copyright law creates a national security threat!


As stated above, allowing AI training to ignore copyright laws will econom ically destabilize and displace a large num ber of jobs in
Am erica; such a m ove is very unwise at a tim e where autom ation and robotics are reducing the num ber of jobs available, governm ent
em ploym ent is being reduced, federal funding withdrawals are causing workforce shrinkages, and Social Security is on the chopping
block.
The people who will be displaced by unfettered AI training are people skilled with words, program m ing, navigating legal
structures/ordinance, investigation, and so on. Without jobs these sam e people will be angry, financially desperate, and have lots of free
tim e on their hands—a prim e target for bad actors both foreign and dom estic to incite to action. Keeping these people gainfully em ployed
and feeling grateful that the governm ent is protecting their jobs doesn’t just help m ake Am erica great again, it keeps Am erican soil safer
from  civil war and espionage.
Yes, we do need AI developm ent to help protect us from  AI-driven m issiles, fighter jets, and other m ilitary threats from  abroad, but
teaching com puters how to draw, write a novel, direct m ovies, address the court, or write a news article has no bearing on these threats!
Keep hum ans em ployed, fed, distracted and happy by protecting copyright law so we don’t have to fight a war at hom e.


