PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-y9au-3fg6
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5155
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Shannon Lopez
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
WhiteHouseAI Action Plan Com m ent


March 1 5, 2025 
From: 
Shannon Lopez  
Chemical Engineer  
Re: Nationa l Scie nce Foundation ’s Request for Information on th e Development of an Artificial 
Intelligenc e (AI) Action Plan 
I am an everyday American who supports small visu al design business es that serves 
client s in the entertainment industr y. They hav e worked hard for year s to develop th e skills and 
knowledg e to build their business es, and follow th e American dream to be ab le to support 
themselv es and thei r family through busin ess ownership. 
The AI system s made by Big Tech companie s like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google 
threaten t o destroy thousand s of American small busine sses with their recen t demand to 
create special carve outs in copyrigh t law. 
AI systems can only b e produced by first trainin g on work mad e by peopl e. Those small 
visual design businesses’ uniqu e works, and the work of hundreds of thousand s of other 
everyday American creator s was taken and fed int o these AI systems without their consent and 
without compensation . They ingest copywritten work , reassemb le it, and then se ll it b ack to 
those small busin ess’ client s – directly competing with them and cuttin g them out of the 
marketplace.  
Now these B ig Tech companies are askin g this administration t o create exception s and 
loophole s to mak e this practice of s tealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal 
precedent. They are suggestin g that if a machin e ingest s and repr oduces c opyrighted work , it is 
somehow suddenly “fair use ”.  
They seem to believ e that anythin g and everythin g on th e internet – regard less of who 
own s it – sh ould be their s for th e taking. They clai m that if this administration does not allow 
them to rewrit e the law in th is way, it will stifle American innovation. Instead , it will have the 
opposite effect. The purpose of American copyrigh t law i s to protect the incentive to create 
and innovate. 


If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will 
be stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a 
new innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new pi ece of music only to 
have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? 
How will Americans  possibly make a living doing these things?  
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new 
copyright exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and 
everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.  
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big 
Tech companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:  
• First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective 
consent , so that we  the people  can decide when and where our work is used by AI 
systems.  
• Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the 
incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic 
value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not 
just Big Tech.  
• Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, 
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what 
content is AI generated.  
I am not anti -technology or anti -AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these 
AI systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the 
hard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to B ig Tech by rewriting 
copyright law.  
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.  
Sincerely,  
Shannon Lopez  
 


