PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1fcr-39uo
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7416
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Molly Biddle  
Email: 
General Comment
I am  deeply concerned by the threat that AI poses to Am erican citizens. Large language m odels are built from  illegally processed hum an-
created work. This intellectual property has been stolen and used to train m odels that are so deeply untrustworthy. 
These m odels vaguely m im ic hum an creations. They endanger all of us by encouraging m isinform ation through their inability to answer
questions correctly, and their environm ental im pact will likely prove catastrophic if left unchecked and certainly if expanded. 
The use and further developm ent of these technologies should not be aided, funded, used, or otherwise encouraged by the U.S.
governm ent. In fact, m ore robust protections should be put into place to protect creators and other citizens from  the dangers of this
reckless and unethical technology. 
I am  in support of using existing law to pursue the prosecution of AI com panies for every instance of theft. I also support the developm ent
of further protections requiring these com panies to gain written consent from  the original creator for every item  it wishes to use for m odel
training. I also would like to see m ore protections for children from  this dangerous technology and for regulations that ensure there are
truth standards that m ust be m et before AI continues to be used in web browsers as an integral part of internet searches. I also believe
that every citizen should be able to opt out of the use of AI technology, in relation to both private com panies and federal, state, and local
governm ents to ensure private and personal inform ation is never shared without perm ission with AI system s.


