PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-6am 9-ixys
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1776
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Kamala Codri ngton-Wh ite 
General Comment
I believe that the public use of AI writing and im ages should be strictly lim ited. People are using their jobs because of Chat GPT and
im age generators, and things like Chat GPT and Google AI overview are spreading disinform ation. People, especially children, are losing
skills. How will we be able to com epte with other countries if our children don’t know how to write because they turn in AI-generated
essays at school? AI also uses m ore energy which could better be used to power our country.
AI-generated m edia shouldn’t be able to be copywrited or m onetized to encourage people to continue to give jobs to writers and artists,
who are valued m em bers of society and contribute to the econom y. 
Scraping the internet for things to feed AI is theft of intellectual property, as the owners of that m edia did not consent to their work being
used. 
Now there’s so m uch AI slop online that it’s hard to find anything real. AI cannot m ake anything new or creative, and it’s already starting
to destroy itself on its own m aterial. 
I don’t think generative AI will survive long if this keeps up. Search bars are being replaced with AI prom pt bars which sim ply don’t fulfill
the sam e purpose. The people have stopped trusting anything they see, scanning it for signs of being AI-generated. People have started
boycotting and lam basting com panies that use AI im ages. I don’t think the future is in this type of AI and I don’t want anything to do with
it. 
Other types of AI can be useful, though! Having AI in a Room ba or a videogam e or AI that helps you fill out form s is the way it’s
supposed to be. Robots are m eant to do m enial tasks so we have m ore tim e for leisure. Currently, AI is m aking art for us so we have
m ore tim e to labor. This is as anti-hum an as you can get.


