PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-wdvl-ibs7
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3861
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: J Jones
Address:
Em ail:  
General Comment
As an artist, I find any technology that requires m assive theft to be a technology not worth supporting. This technology, which again,
requires theft from  existing hum an creators, is already being used to push artists out of working roles with creations that in any other
context would be called plagiarism . Technology should exist to m ake the hum an condition better, not to destroy livelihoods and steal
another's hard labor- that is not what Am erica is supposed to be about, is it?
The worst part is that there would be no end to this- the AI database can not just be filled once and it is 'com plete'- it requires constant
feeding of fresh content. That m eans not a one tim e theft of other's works and intellectual property, but theft in perpetuity so that the m odel
doesn't collapse on itself. That alone should tell you that these 'AI' m odels cannot create anything new and that their 'creativity' is an over-
hyped exaggeration based on the ability to regurgitate im ages and text- it m ust be constantly kept fresh by filling it's databases m ore and
m ore. It doesn't get 'better' the m ore you add, it just has m ore of the sam e to throw back at you without you realizing that it's doing the
sam e thing repetitively. Anyone who's worked with generative AIs can tell you that this is exactly the case.
There is no positive benefit of this technology that doesn't only appeal to a niche group of grifters who are already predisposed to lying to
the public about what they can produce and appealing to corporate desires to cut creatives out of the equation. There is no benefit to
Am erica or the Am erican people.


