PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-yx5j-frre
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5372
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
Hello,
I am  writing this com m ent in regards to the AI Action Plan. I do not believe AI holds a place in the future of the US. Though there are
results som e m ay see as beneficial, I believe that they serve in the short-term . This plan would cause harm  in the long-term  by setting a
precedent that theft is an acceptable action and would blur the line of the validity of content shared on social m edia. And not just for m edia
& resources, but for inidividuals as well. AI steals from  m y livelihood as an Am erican and profits off of theft. Art & stories are personal
ventures created by artists & writers. How can AI take that and twist it into som ething it's not supposed to be,especially without m y
perm ission? It devalues the Am erican spirit & lowers the m orale of creative individuals. Instead of celebrating the individual's ability to
create worlds & expand boundaries, AI serves only one purpose: to steal & regurgitate content, robbing us of our cultural im age &
m aking us look hollow & vapid. Lastly, AI is overhyped and is fleecing the eyes of the Am erican public. I believe this is a fad: a trend that
will com e & go. Though it m ay leave, its disdain from  the Am erican public will last longer. Moving forward with this would leave a
lingering contem pt, even if its long gone. And where would that disdain from  the constituents go towards? In conclusion, please reconsider
not m oving forward with this plan. Not just for the Am erican creatives, but for how the world will see you.
Thank you.


