PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-d8m j-7xng
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1521
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Daniel Gore 
General Comment
A.I. com panies have worked with large tech firm s to blatantly violate copyright law and the safe harbor protection that sites like Reddit,
Twitter, and Facebook hide behind to avoid regulation. They have sim ultaneously claim ed no ownership over the data shared on their site
to hold them selves blam eless for any content they fail to m oderate while packaging up this data and selling it to A.I. com panies.
Neither of these group can prove any ownership of any of the inform ation they are using to train their algorithm s and are releasing them
into the world without any regard for the dam age they will do.
They are actively encouraging the destruction of jobs in favor of AI autom ation that provides a worse experience for Am ericans and gives
another layer of deniability for com panies to fail to m eet their obligations when providing a service. It has becom e increasingly difficult to
m ake contact with a hum an at any large tech firm  over the last decade and their us of AI chatbots has exacerbated this problem
exponentially. We are unable to resolve any problem  no m atter it's level of severity as we are never able to get passed the AI chat bot to
engage with a hum an able to understand the actual problem .
We can not allow this continued m alicious incom petence to degrade consum er protections further. 
We need to take AI out of private hands, it is sim ply not a tool that can be used ethically for profit. It has and will continue to rip away at
the ability of our country to function. It is being pitched as both a tool and a weapon to fear m onger us into throwing infinite m oney into
these com panies with the prom ise that they will give us the edge. This is a lie. They know that they will sell anything they m ake to anyone
who will buy it and they know that the real threat AI offers hum anity is in how it's proliferation will disrupt and disable the industries it is
used in. 
To the person reading this, I beg you, please do not believe their m arketing. A.I. will not save us, it will not benefit us. If left in their hands
it is sim ply going to be used to harm  us further and siphon m ore m oney to a handful of billionaires while the rest of us suffer.


