PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-xkdw-1qvq
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4693
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Kris Kn igge 
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
AI Action Plan


March 15th, 2025 
From: 
Kris Knigge 
Freelance Localization Specialist and Adaptation Writer  
Re: Nationa l Science Foundatio n’s Request for Information on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
I am an everyday American who owns a small localization business which serves clients in 
the entertainm ent industry. I have worked hard for years to develop the skills and 
knowledge t o build my business, and have bee n lucky enoug h to make a decent living and 
support my family – unti l recently. 
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google 
threaten to destroy thousands of American small businesses like mine with their 
recent demand to create special carve outs in copyright law. 
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work made b y people. My unique work, 
and the work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators was taken and 
fed into these AI systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest our work, 
reassemble it, and then sell it back to our clients – direct ly competing wit h us and cutting 
us out of the marketplace. 
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal 
precedent. They are suggesting that if a machine ingests a nd reproduces copyrighted work, 
it is somehow suddenly “fair use”.  


They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns 
it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow 
them to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.  
 
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to 
protect the incentive to create and innovate.   
 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be 
stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create 
a new innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new pi ece of music only 
to have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first 
place? How will we possibly make a living doing these things?  
 
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new 
copyright exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators 
and everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.  
 
There are some who are using this letter as a base who will tell you that they are impressed 
by the potential of generative AI, and that they’re looking to you to create a system that 
involves asking creators to consent to their work being fed into these m achines. I am not 
impressed by the potential of generative AI, nor do I want any work fed into them. Any 
technology that cannot operate without stolen material is not worth supporting. I’d rather 
my work be pirated than used to power AI to take jobs from m y colleagues and people 
who will enter this field in the future.  
 
I do not trust Big Tech to do right by creatives. I do not trust them to abide by the law. But if 
you work to uphold copyright, to demand transparency, and to financially reimburse the 
creators whose work they devour, I’ll feel a little less distressed about the future.  
 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.  
-Kris Knigge  


