PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-h561-09hz
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1596
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Thom as Bessette
General Comment
As an author in several networks with other authors, as well as artists, film m akers, and several other creative industries, I strongly urge the
United States governm ent and the Trum p adm inistration to uphold creatives' copyright and IP rights, and ensure that generative AI m odels
cannot train on copyrighted works without proper licensing and com pensation. Generative AI already poses a great threat to workers'
rights and livelihoods in creative industries such as film  and video gam ing. The creative industries of the United States are a cornerstone of
it's cultural exports and econom y, and have done great work over the decades in building Am erica's reputation as a land of econom ic and
personal freedom . This is why it's im portant we protect the rights and livelihoods of the people in these industries, and why we should not
underm ine copyright just for the benefit of the AI industry. Artificial intelligence can and should be a benefit for all sectors of the econom y,
and m any artists and writers wish to leverage artificial intelligence in a way that benefits the arts without harm ing people's livelihoods. By
enforcing copyright licensing for com panies looking to use copyrighted m aterial to train their AI m odels, we can ensure that workers can
continue to produce m edia for the entire world to enjoy while also allowing for technological advancem ent in a way that is m utually
beneficial and positive-sum . The future doesn't need to be a zero-sum  gam e where som e industries are financially ruined by others, but a
m utually cooperative future is only possible by upholding the laws of the country. Copyright law is an im portant cornerstone of the law that
drives innovation in all sectors, but rem oving copyright protections because of tech com panies' dem ands would not only harm  creative
industries, but it would be a m assive blow to all industries that rely on intellectual property in the United States, which in turn would also
harm  its technology industries, including com panies like Google and OpenAI who are lobbying for reduced copyright protections. This is
why I urge the United States federal governm ent and the Trum p adm inistration to uphold copyright law, protect people's intellectual
property rights, and ensure that artificial intelligence is trained and developed in a way that is m utually beneficial for the entire econom y and
does not plunder the intellectual property of other sectors without any com pensation.


