PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2est-se4z
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8255
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Maia 
Kobabe   Email: 
General Comment
My nam e is Maia Kobabe. I am  a full-tim e author/illustrator, and I have m ade art and writing m y full tim e job since 2017, and I am
hopeful that I will be able to do this for the rest of m y life. I am  writing to say I strongly oppose allowing any work, whether written, video,
audio, visual art, or any future m edia created using AI content generators to be eligible for copyright in the United States of Am erica.
Like m any artists, I have watched in fear as the AI im age generators from  DALL-E to Stable Diffusion to Midjourney already begin to
threaten the livelihood of illustrators in this country. We have already seen a book publisher choose to use an AI generated im age for a
book cover that would previously have been illustrated by a hum an (“Fractal Noise” by Christopher Paolini, published by Tor, 2023). Tor
released a statem ent apologizing, saying they had purchased the base im age from  a reputable stock im age website without knowing it was
AI generated; but unfortunately stock websites are getting flooded with im ages, generated by technology trained on m illions of artworks
stolen from  hum an artists. 
David Holz, the founder of Midjourney, stated in a Forbes article that his com pany didn’t even try to get perm ission from  the artists whose
work fed his m achine learning program  because “there really isn’t a way to get a hundred m illion im ages and know where they're com ing
from .” (Quote from  “Midjourney Founder David Holz On The Im pact Of AI On Art, Im agination And The Creative Econom y” by Rob
Salkowitz, Septem ber 16, 2022). I would like to say that he could have put forward an open call for art, and prom ised to pay artists, but
he chose not to. At this point, I think the m ost accurate way to describe these m achine learning algorithm s is plagiarism  software. 
As a writer, I have started to fear that any sam ple of m y work which I post online will be scrapped and used to train an algorithm  which
seeks to replace m e. Several well known m agazines have seen their subm issions inboxes flooded with so m any obviously com puter
generated short stories and articles that they have had to close their subm issions to deal with the issue. Neil Clark, the editor of
Clarkesworld, a prestigious sci-fi m agazine, told Buzzfeed News in February that he was getting “buried” under AI generated story
subm issions. He was forced to close subm issions indefinitely for the first tim e in the m agazine’s history to deal with the m ess. 
The current AI software does not create anything. All it does is regurgitate an am algam ation of what it’s been fed. And what it has been
fed is work, m ade by hum ans, who were not asked or paid for their labor to be used by these m achine learning program s. As such, I do
not think anything produced by any of the current AI program s should be considered eligible for copyright. Artists and writers deserve to
be paid for their work, and it should not be legal to take their work without perm ission to train content generator algorithm s. 
Thank you, Maia Kobabe 


