PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1a6t-54tj
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7604
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Andrew 
Willoughby  Email: 
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Com m entOnDevelopm entOfArtificialInteligence


From:
Andrew Willoughby
Software Designer and Developer
Re: National Science F oundation ’s Request for Information on the D evelopment of an Artificial 
Intelligence (A I) Action Plan
I am an everyda y American who owns a small visual design business which serves clients in the 
entertainment industr y. I have worked hard for years to develop the skills and knowledge t o build 
my business, and have be en lucky enough to make a decent living and support my family – until 
recentl y.
The AI systems m ade by Big Tech companies l ike OpenAI (Microsoft) 
and Googl e threaten to destroy thousands of American small businesses 
like mine with the ir recen t deman d to create special carve outs in 
copyrigh t law.
AI systems can only be produc ed by first training on work made by people. My unique w ork, 
and the w ork of hundreds of thousands of other everyda y American creators was taken and fed 
into these AI systems without our consent or any compensati on. They ingest our work, 
reassemble it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly competing with us and cutting us out 
of the marketplace.
Now these Bi g Tech companies are asking this administration to create e xceptions and loopholes 
to make this practice of steali ng American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent . They are 
suggesting that if a m achine i ngests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow suddenly 
“fair use”. 
They seem to believe t hat anything and everything on the i nternet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be t heirs for the t aking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to 
rewrite t he law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will hav e the oppos ite effect. Th e purpose of American 
copy right law is to protect th e incentiv e to create and innovate. 
If we t he American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online w ill be stolen 
by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive t o create? If everyda y Americans create a new 
innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music onl y to have it 
immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will 
we pos sibly make a living doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators . Do not create new 
copy right exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and 
steal from creators an d everyday Americans with out permission, 
compensation, or transparenc y.


This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big 
Tech companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that
the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense
economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original
creators, not just Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what
content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard 
work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright 
law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


