PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-uqo5-iyor
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3437
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Jonathan Ritchie
General Comment
The precedent this sort of legislature could set am ounts to very m uddied waters. What you call "burdensom e" is an extensive legal
fram ework that has been built for decades, especially as it pertains to how copyright is handled on the internet.
First, we have extensive copyright protections for creators and their works, however abuse-able or oppressive they m ay be. There's
plenty of legal precedent already set as to the legality of distribution of copyrighted works, and effectively throwing out all of that for the
sake of m aking "AI". As such, only that which is specifically classified as "Public Dom ain", in which any previous copyrights have expired
years ago. Failing that, there should be m uch, MUCH m ore effort to get in touch with the creators of these item s which som e m ay use to
train their "AI" m odels, so as to respect the copyright-holder's intellectual property rights. Som e m ay argue that this is "too difficult" or
"would take too m uch tim e", and I find these argum ents m oot in face of the m oral and legal bankruptcy of the current m ethods of
"acquiring" this m aterial which they try to train their m odels on. Just because som ething is "posted online and therefor free" does not m ean
that such m aterial, whether it's literature or other form s of m edia including photos, art, audio and video, is "free to use", especially when it
concerns m onetization of the results of using that m aterial.
Second, the reliance of "AI" training that is centered into a handful of corporations com es into question as these training m ethods/m odels
begin to hit a wall, that no am ount of com puting power can seem  to break through with current m ethods and hardware. This has lead to
"AI" becom ing increasingly funding and energy-hungry, neither of which are sustainable in the near or long term . Fresh water resources are
already becom ing less and less accessible due to pollution, never m ind the am ount needed to cool the data-centers that house these
training system s. Clearing land for renewables or burning m ore fossil fuels solely to power these centers isn't ecologically sustainable in the
long-term . Various regions of this country are experiencing heavy drought, with ground water sources being depleted rapidly from  various
sources as it is, which m akes the "required" water-cooling of these data-centers im practical if not m alicious if they're given clearance to
operate in these regions.
Third, in regards to a point m ade in the second talking point, there needs to be a dram atic change or evolution in not just hardware, but
also in algorithm s and training m ethods, that closed-source system s and m ethods are falling drastically behind on in term s of over-all
training perform ance and accuracy. We have seen this with the industry-shaking release of China's Deepseek-r1, which was trained on
significantly less powerful hardware and for a fraction of a fraction of the cost of other m ajor com petitors like OpenAI (which was
intended to becom e open-source until corporate investors got a hold of it) or Meta. This revealed that investing m ore into obsolete training
m ethods was not worth the slim  returns it was providing, and that a m ore efficient m eans of training can be done.
It's tim e to realize that just throwing tons and tons of data at a m achine and asking it to figure it out on its own has not only proven to be
legally dubious, but is also inefficient. Meta has recently claim ed they didn't pirate any training m aterial, and IF THEY DID, they didn't
"seed" it (allowing others to access the m aterial so that they, too, can download the m aterial in a still legally dubious m anner), which
doesn't m atter when it com es to illegally downloading copyrighted m aterial according to precedent set by the DMCA (Digital Millennial
Copyright Act) and by other copyright-intensive corporations such as Disney and others.
Back in the day, legislators referred to this type of illegal downloading as "piracy" (though it's m ore accurate to call it "counterfeiting" as it
involves illicit copies, not out-right deprivation of goods as in the case of piracy), and m any people were subjected to heavy fines, if not
jail/com m unity service tim e. Som e of the big figures who host these sorts of services have faced a lot of legal scrutiny from  corporations
and legislators the world over, so it's shocking to m e that suddenly we're considering it to be "perfectly legal, so long as we can get a one-
up on China/other com petitors".
As such, I find it necessary to m ore deeply review the m oral, legal, ecological, and energy requirem ents that are "deem ed necessary" to
train "AI", and to find m ore effective m eans of addressing all of these problem s, if the long-term  goal is to "change the world".


