PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-z9fm -8pdm
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5669
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I do not believe this request should be approved. Generative AI is a glorified plagiarism  tool that only operates on stealing and
regurgitating the hard work and soul put into real art, writing, perform ances, voices, etc. created by real artists. GenAI is a grift in a
speculative m arket, sim ilar to NFTs and cryptocurrency, built on false prom ises and em pty words on the results of whatever is m ade from
it. So m any cryptocurrencies and NFTs failed to live up to all of the hype and prom ises the people behind them  m ade because the faults
and lies were plain to see by anyone with any sense on how their respective m arkets operate: genAI is no different from  that. GenAI is a
bubble that has been blown up to unreasonable and unsustainable proportions, due to so m any corporations wanting to use and turn a
profit off of genAI. The people, however, have gotten wise to the problem s of genAI. At best, consum ers do not care for the genAI
im plem ented in all of the services corporations provide and flat out ignore them . At worst, consum ers vehem ently despise the use of genAI
and cease all business with and use of the goods and services provided by those corporations. Nvidia is a prim e exam ple of genAI leading
to ruin, as seen in their $600 billion m arket cap drop. Now im agine just how detrim ental the dam age will be if OpenAI is granted free rein
to plagiarize without any legal protections on copyright holders, how m uch trouble our already fragile econom y face when the bubble
finally bursts. GenAI has already harm ed countless artists through stolen art and stolen job opportunities (also harm ful for our econom y),
there is no sensible reason to allow it to do further harm  on the country as a whole. For the good of the hardworking artists in our nation, I
im plore you to not allow OpenAI to circum vent copyright law, to not allow OpenAI to steal from  innocent artist without due recom pense.


