PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3gx7-hwb5
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9150
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Christian v  
General Comment
I am  writing to you as an everyday Am erican college student who m ajors in graphic design. I am  currently a senior and I have worked
hard for five years through a pandem ic, with an associates degree and soon to be bachelor’s degree in May of 2025. I have dedicated m y
tim e, m oney, and effort to develop the skills and knowledge to build m y professional portfolio, until recently when m y future career is
challenged by the recent advances in AI system s m ade by Big Tech com panies like OpenAI (Microsoft), and Google. These com panies
threaten to destroy thousands of Am erican sm all businesses and future careers with their recent dem and to create special carve outs in
copyright law. Im agine spending thousands of dollars and hundreds of hours to learn a craft that is insanely valuable in our m odern day
and age. Design is found everywhere. Art is found everywhere and it’s som ething that is inherently hum an. No other anim al on this planet
takes part in a culture of the arts as in-depth and as creative as we hum ans do.
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. My unique work, and the work of hundreds of thousands of
other everyday Am erican creators was taken and fed into these AI system s without our consent or any com pensation. They ingest our
work, reassem ble it, and then sell it back to our clients… directly com peting with us and cutting us out of the m arketplace.
Now these Big Tech com panies are asking this adm inistration to create exceptions and loopholes to m ake this practice of stealing
Am erican creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a m achine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it
is som ehow suddenly “fair use”.
They seem  to believe that anything and everything on the internet (regardless of who owns it) should be theirs for the taking. They claim
that if this adm inistration does not allow them  to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle Am erican innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of Am erican copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate.
If we the Am erican people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the
incentive to create? If everyday Am ericans create a new innovative piece of com puter code, a new visual design, or a new piece of m usic
only to have it im m ediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly m ake a living
doing these things?
Want to protect Am erican innovation? Protect Am erican creators. Do not create new copyright exem ptions that allow Big Tech
com panies to exploit and steal from  creators and everyday Am ericans without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency.
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech com panies, but rather on ensuring a fair
m arketplace with com petition:
First, the governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, so that we can decide when and where
our work is used by AI system s.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is
preserved. Our work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just
Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their
training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
I am  not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am  consistently im pressed by the capabilities of these AI system s, and find them  incredibly useful for
m any things. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Am ericans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting
copyright law. We have these protections for artists for a reason and to give AI a free pass is com pletely unjust.
Now all I ask is for sym pathy. Do not side with the billionaire com panies to profit off of the art of the artist who m akes their com pany
what it is today. Google, Adobe, Microsoft, and every single com pany out there with som ething as sim ple as just a logo would be
absolutely and com pletely nowhere as successful as they have becom e without the work and the effort of the artists and designers. Rather,


side with the designers and artists who are constantly told they’ll never m ake a career out of art, side with those who fit the stereotype of
the “starving artists” because frankly the com panies worth billions of dollars do not need ways to profit off of work that isn’t even theirs.
Lastly, I ask for you to put yourself in m y shoes. I’ve spent 5 years, soon to be two degrees, lots of m oney and lots of debt, all to be
prepared to graduate in no m ore than two m onths, only for m y whole industry to be on the verge of replacem ent of AI m odels m ade by
billion dollar corporations. Truly think about it.


