PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3487-flei
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8837
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Christopher Brooke
Em ail:  
General Comment
Com panies m ust absolutely NOT be allowed to indiscrim inately scrape data for free. This governm ent survey is about m aking sure “that
unnecessarily burdensom e requirem ents do not ham per private sector AI innovation.” Copyright and creators’ rights to their own data and
creations is not a “burden” to private industry. Tech com panies don’t get free GPU chips for their AI datacenters just because “paying for
electronics is a burden.” They don’t get to force their program m ers to work for free—ie, slavery—because “paying hum ans to do their
jobs is a burden.” Com panies should not be able to indiscrim inately steal the entire world’s cultural and creative output just because
“acquiring training data is a burden.”
Google, Meta, OpenAI, etc, have already used huge datasets of stolen m aterial to train their AI program s. Meta is currently fighting a
court battle over its decision to torrent a m assive slurry of illegally pirated books to train its program . These com panies have glutted
them selves on billions of stolen im ages and text and m usic taken from  pirated databases and from  their own users, m ostly without
perm ission and without giving those users a transparent and effective way to refuse. Now, these com panies are asking the governm ent to
intercede for them  when these people say “Wait, that’s not fair.”
This is not about scientific AIs or m edical AIs—those advancem ents, which ACTUALLY benefit hum anity, don’t require access to every
fictional novel ever sold on Am azon. These tech com panies want to change the law to allow them selves com pletely unrestricted access to
other people’s inform ation and artwork and creations so they can train chatbots and im age generators and other com m ercial products.
Corporations want a one-sided law to let them  steal other people’s work. Nintendo and Disney can sue sm all-tim e artists for using their
tradem arked characters in fan-art, but now they want AI m odels trained using free access to every drawing I’ve ever created. Many of
these program s, such as art generators like MidJourney, actively put talented and hardworking individual creators out of work and lead
com panies to fire their creative team s. It does not benefit the world, it does not benefit the Am erican people, it does not benefit Am erica’s
com petitive position in the global m arket. All it does is allow a bunch of greedy billionaires to build unnecessary com m ercial software on
the backs of m illions of people’s uncom pensated work. “Unnecessarily burdensom e requirem ents [that] ham per private sector AI
innovation” is just corporate-speak for “having to pay for training data would m ake it harder to m ake billions and billions of dollars for
free.”
The only m odel of AI training that is fair to individuals and to the creative industry is a m odel where AI com panies have to get explicit
perm ission to use data for training and have to fairly com pensate the data’s creators. This is not a “burden”: Google and Am azon can
track every site we visit, every ad we see, every word we type on our phones. Keeping track of where they get their data and who it’s
created by is not a “burden” by any technical definition. It’s only a “burden” because people object to having their data trained on without
perm ission and com pensation.
AI needs to regulated. AI training needs to be legally required to be based on opt-in m odels that properly track and com pensate data
owners who opt in. Anything else is exploitation that m akes a few large com panies wealthy and leaves individual people without jobs. The
US governm ent absolutely m ust NOT shift copyright policies to favor corporations over individuals.


