PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2u8w-5pkh
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8601
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Lyndsey Raney  
Email: 
General Comment
I am  an everyday Am erican who works as a librarian and in m y sparetim e m akes art as a longtim e passionate hobby. I have worked hard
for years to develop the skills and knowledge to m ake art, and have been lucky enough to learn alongside friends who do m ake a living
m aking art. Most of them  earned a decent living via their passions. Until very recently that is.
The AI system s m ade by Big Tech com panies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy thousands of Am erican sm all
businesses with their recent dem and to create special carve outs in copyright law.
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. My personal work and the work of hundreds of thousands of
other everyday Am erican creators was taken and fed into these AI system s without our consent or any com pensation. This happened to
both hobbyists and professionals, robbing them  of their livelihoods. 
They ingest their work, reassem ble it, and then sell it back to clients – directly com peting with creatives and cutting them  out of the
m arketplace. And for lower quality work!!
Now these Big Tech com panies are asking this adm inistration to create exceptions and loopholes to m ake this practice of stealing
Am erican creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a m achine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it
is som ehow suddenly “fair use”.
They seem  to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim
that if this adm inistration does not allow them  to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle Am erican innovation. They behave as if the only
way to bring new ideas to the table of their com panies is to steal them .
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of Am erican copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate. It's to
allow creativity to be worth investing in.
If we the Am erican people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the
incentive to create? If everyday Am ericans create a new innovative piece of com puter code, a new visual design, or a new piece of m usic
only to have it im m ediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly m ake a living
doing these things? 
What im petus will people have to m ake or support new art, to further push boundaries? Particularly in Big Tech, which has stagnated for
years. What Elon Musk prom ises of X is just a sham bling, poorly m ade version of China's Weibo. How creative is that? 
Want to protect Am erican innovation? Protect Am erican creators. Protect Am erican ingenuity and reward them  for their creative efforts.
Do not create new copyright exem ptions that allow Big Tech com panies to exploit and steal from  creators and everyday Am ericans
without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency. They will not innovate with this. They will only gobble up investor dollars to give us
nothing.


This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech com panies, but rather on ensuring a fair
m arketplace with com petition:
First, the governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, so that we can decide when and where
our work is used by AI system s.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is
preserved. Our work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just
Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their
training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
I am  not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am  consistently im pressed by the capabilities of these AI system s, and find them  incredibly useful for
m any things. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Am ericans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting
copyright law.


