PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2jlq-lskg
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8366
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: AJ Brock  
Email: 
General Comment
Generative AI should absolutely not be allowed to be trained on copyrighted m aterial without the explicit perm ission of the original
creator. Use of copyrigted m aterial cannot be categorized as com m entary, search engines, criticism , parody, news reporting, research, or
scholarship. When weighed against the four "fair use" factors:
1. The purpose and character of the use, including whether such use is of a com m ercial nature or is for nonprofit educational purposes;
2. The nature of the copyrighted work;
3. The am ount and substantiality of the portion used in relation to the copyrighted work as a whole; and
4. The effect of the use upon the potential m arket for or value of the copyrighted work.
It's easy to point out that this use fails to pass #1 and #4 as generative AI is very frequently used for com m ercial purposes, if it is trained
to m im ic an artist's existing works, it will directly reduce the m arket for and value of that artist's copyrighted work. One m ay argue that the
generative AI isn't producing exact copies of the work it is trained on, but the fact stands that it CANNOT do what it does and create
sim ilar works without being trained on the existing ones. If the artists explicit concent to use the work is not given, it shouldn't be used to
train a m achine to copy elem ents from  the work to create sim ilar works. This shouldn't be a difficult concept. If the AI corporations want
to train their algorithm s on copyrighted works in order to m ake it create sim ilar works for com m ercial purposes, they should be required
to obtain the original artist's legal perm ission to use the work. Particularly since the use of the generative AI will be in direct m arket
com petition with the original artist.


