PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-vxfu-cayq
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3713
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
If US's governm ent is really worried about AI and its harm s, then you only have two options:
1- Ban fake AI (as known as generative AI) from  the world. Yes, ban. All m ess caused by this technology existence wouldn't happened if
it was banned at all. It was better when never existed.
And no, I'm  not talking about AI in general, but just the "generative" AI (that it's not AI, it's just a m arketing term )
2- Regulate so hard to the point will not cause any harm  anym ore.
Ensure copyright laws protect creators (m ainly sm all creators), ensure transparency and consent to the data and the MAIN POINT:
LIMIT THE QUANTITY OF WORK AND DATA USED. If those program s are just tools like com panies says, so it'll not be a
problem  if there's a lim it of what can use and what can do, right? (for exam ple, m odels only allowed to use 3000 works/data). The lack of
lim it it's one of the m ain things helped to cause all this m ess. And don't forget about not letting a third person put data to the AI (how it'll
know it's the person's data and not som eone else?).
Those two ways can both protect people and not let people lost their jobs.
Many of m y career choices had suffered from  job loss and "AI" com panies aim  to do m ore m odels to different careers, it'll cause m ore
and m ore jobs loss. YES, THOSE COMPANIES KNOW THE HARM THEY'RE DOING. Like, Midjourney and Stability's CEOs
adm itted they knew their m odels existance would cause jobs loss; Sam  Altm an did say he doesn't think people losing their jobs, and so
on.
And I don't need to m ention this technology is causing AI slop and m ore m isinform ation in the internet and HARMING THE
ENVIRONMENT.
I'm  suffering from  anxiety since this started, not just m e, but other people also. More people fear what'll happen to the in the future.
I hope US does the right thing and stop all this in a effective way, otherwise we'll be definitely doom ed


