PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-wa9x-l8dy
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3825
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Lee Taylor
Address:
Genera l Comment
As an artist, I've spent my entire life pouring my soul into my art. It's been a constant companion in my life, and helped me get through 
really hard times in my life, when I didn't have much else. If I had a piece of paper and a pencil, I could express myself. Even if that 
express ion was boredo m, just to pass the time, it's still a human emotion, poured onto paper for all the world to see, or not see, at my 
leisure as an artist.
It helps me communicate with loved ones, and friends. It brings joy to people's lives, including mine. I can cry in my art, be angry in my 
art, express love in my art.
AI takes all of that away. AI just grabs all my love and anger and humanity and throws it in a brutal blender, to be chopped up and spit 
back out based on a few lines of uncaring text. An express ion of a human's soul, their very humanity, torn away in a blink, fed to a 
program that rem oves al l em otion an d humanity from it, to ch urn ou t someth ing slopped together qu ickly.
AI is supposed to help us autom ate th e &^% in our lives so we can spen d more ti me making art an d expressi ng oursel ves. AI 
shouldn't be taki ng the expression away an d forcing us to be wage slaves. You've got it all backwards. I do not support letting 
Open AI or ANY AI just have free ru n of any image they can get thei r greedy corporate hands on . Open AI should NOT be 
protected from thei r unethical theft of artists hard work! A compan y I never gave consen t to use my works is STEALING from 
me to make money of f me without compensati ng me. That should be illegal! Not protected! This is flagran t copyri ght violation if 
nothing else!
Defend and protect human artists! F&^% AI!


