PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-0f4z-iw72
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1373
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
Google and other AI com panies are trying every trick in the book to steal content creators work without paying for using their copyrighted
content. This is not a national security issue but an inform ation heist!
This can be easily proved by the way that Google regurgitates content creators written content to earn m oney either by getting people to
stay on their site looking at ads or by directing visitors to affiliate links which they will get paid for. This isn't about security it is about
m aking m ore m oney.
There is a big difference between training AI and linking to the creators in a m eaningful way who provided the inform ation and stealing
their work and passing it off as their own. 
All that is now happening is that we have a m onopoly such as Google that is out of control who has broken the open web to such an
extent that ordinary creators can barely be found in the search results. The people who are not shown are m ajor corporations or forum s
such as Reddit who Google conveniently struck a deal with. I would expect that once they have sucked that forum  dry of inform ation that
will disappear as well (there is a reason why their share price is dropping like a stone).
Even worse the inform ation that they are providing is incorrect a good percentage of the tim e m eaning that ordinary people are acting on
incorrect and som etim es dangerous inform ation. 
This will of course com e back to bite AI com panies in the end because as creators disappear and stop producing content it will be
im possible for them  to feed their AI with new inform ation. This is a m ore serious national security concern.
It is im perative that we stop a few large technology com panies controlling everything because it won't just stop at content creators but
governm ents as well.


