PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2bom -zq21
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8174
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Britt Anderson
Address: United States, 
General Comment
I do not believe AI holds a place in the future of the USA. AI steals from  m y livelihood directly as an Am erican and profits off of theft of
m y services. 
As a United States citizen, we are taught in our schools that we are a nation with a governm ent form ed of the people, by the people, for
the people. We are told that our governm ent represents the voices of all within its borders. We learn how laws are m ade, and how checks
and balances exist to m ake sure no one branch usurps another. We are touted by our governing body as the superior form  of governm ent
- that our nation is above reproach sim ply because it’s a dem ocracy, and therefore m ust be the best because the voices of the people are
heard, respected, and laws are created to reflect that. And in this m atter regarding AI, I question if that is true.
Prioritizing efforts in using AI to replace and displace people’s livelihoods for corporate profit are m orally reprehensible, and are not
interested in the greater good of their fellow m an. Many close to m e have felt the pain and anguish of seeing their livelihood torn asunder
for the sake of saving m oney. Dozens having their creative works stolen and fed through an AI engine to create what they believe is art
experience a soul-crushing wound in their souls.
The term  art is defined as “the expression or application of hum an creative skill and im agination…producing works to be appreciated
prim arily for their beauty or em otional power”. Note that the key elem ent in all art created is through the hum an condition - anyone could
paint a night sky, but it was the lived hum an experiences and life that Vincent VanGogh had within him  that led to the creation of one of the
worlds m ost fam ous works. Art is irrevocably intertwined with the pain and pleasure of being hum an, and to sanction its subservience to
being fodder for corporate bottom  lines feels like a cruelty m ost inhum ane.
And that terrifies m e.


