PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-ygyf-yjo9
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5059
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Artificial Intelligence (AI) software and technology as it stands can only "Im prove" by scraping inform ation, values, and data from
privatized and copyrighted m aterial. This should speak leagues about how desperate and nonsensical the current form  of AI technology is
at the m om ent, where even with the endless depths of hum an creativity and knowledge, the only way to im prove upon this AI technology
is by downloading MP3's and DVDs off the web and then to scrape those illegal downloads for data and tokens so they can be
repackage as som ething new. Essentially, you can think of it as m aking a "Frankenstein" m onster, using bits and pieces of content already
m ade to m ake som ething sim ilar to it, with out crediting or paying the creators of the source.
Back in 2010, there were a privy of laws saying, "You can't download m usic or m ovie for free off the internet" and doing so could land
you in hot water. These laws still exist. So if these AI developers want to use "Shrek 2" and Metallica's album , "Master of Puppets" they
should be forced to pay for rights to use these as data sources for their AI software. They should also be forced to pay for all the data
they have already taken from  others as well, from  sm all artists to m ajor producers, as that is the only right thing to do.
If they will not and won't, then they should not be able to use any m aterial they do not legally own and should destroy any work they have
created using these illegal possessions and destroy them .
Overall, this request should denied entirely. Not only would it steal copyrighted data and content with out any reprecussions, it would also
put people who's job it is to create art, writings, and reports at risk.


