PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-23w2-jr9h
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8309
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Zachary Savoy
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Artificial Intelligence Action Plan


From: 
Zachary Savoy 
Associate Sales and Client Services Representative  
Re: Nationa l Scie nce Foundation ’s Request for Information on th e Development of an Artificial 
Intelligenc e (AI) Action Plan 
I am an everyday American who own s a small visu al design busin ess which serves client s in the 
entertainment industr y. I hav e worked hard for year s to develop th e skills and knowledge to 
build my business, and hav e been lucky enough t o mak e a decent livin g and support my fa mily – 
until recentl y. 
The AI system s made by Big Tech companie s like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to 
destroy thousand s of American small businesse s like mine with their recen t demand t o create 
special carve outs in copyrigh t law. 
AI systems can only b e produced by first trainin g on work mad e by peopl e. M y uniqu e work, and 
the work of hundreds of thousand s of othe r everyday American creator s was taken and fed into 
these AI systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest ou r work, reassemble 
it, and then s ell it back to our client s – directly competin g with u s and cuttin g us out of the 
marketplace.  
Now these B ig Tech companies are askin g this administration t o create exception s and 
loophole s to mak e this practice of s tealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal 
precedent. They are suggestin g that if a machin e ingest s and repr oduces c opyrighted work , it is 
somehow suddenly “fair use ”.  
They seem to believ e that anythin g and everythin g on th e internet – regard less of who own s it – 
should b e their s for th e taking. They claim that if th is administration doe s not allow th em t o 
rewrit e the law in this wa y, it will stifle American innovation. 


Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to protect 
the incentive to create and innovate.   
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be 
stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a 
new innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new pi ece of music only to 
have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? 
How will we possibly make a living doing these things?  
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday 
Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.  
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:  
•First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
•Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the
incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic
value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not
just Big Tech.
•Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what
content is AI generated.


I am not anti -technology or anti -AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard 
work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to B ig Tech by rewriting copyright 
law. 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.  


