PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-lro9-qcvn
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2420
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Philip Trujillo
Em ail:  
General Comment
I believe that if generative AI is to becom e a fixture in our society it will need to be subjected to m uch m ore intense scrutiny and
regulation. As it currently stands even the founders and leaders of this em erging technology adm it that it is built off the back of copyrighted
works both written and illustrated alm ost entirely without com pensation to the original producers or copyright holders of said works. It is
and should be unlawful for any person or com pany to take copyrighted works without license and use them  to sell their own com peting
product. Whether the output of generative AI m odels is a form  of fair use is irrelevant at this stage, as the nature of that output being
predicated on unlawful theft of m aterial should be considered as m aking the output fruit of the poisonous tree. Further, the nature of these
m odels is harm ful to the industries they function within. Now, rather than com pete against other writers and artists within a local area, often
with strictly lim ited availability that prom otes com petitive practices and a healthy diversity of providers, this technology instead seem s to be
tailor-m ade to pool consum ers towards a handful of m onopolistic com panies with global reach at the expense of entire industries. If it is in
any way allowed to be ruled fair use for these m odels to freely take copyrighted work for their com m ercial purposes, it is then not a
m atter of if industries will collapse into AI-controlled m onopolies, but a m atter of when. Additionally, this technology com es with a not
insignificant energy expense tied to its active use. It is only right and fair that this too should be subject to scrutiny and regulation as any
other com pany is. The lack of a physical product does not excuse it from  responsibility for its very physical waste, typically in the form  of
energy consum ption and em issions.


