PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-10rj-9pwu
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7035
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Sohrab Rahmani 
General Comment
A.I. in its current unregulated form  has caused so m uch pain to our society and cannot be allowed to have any m ore access than it does
already. Let m e tell you som ething. I have a cousin who dropped out of school because the boys in her grade generated lewd A.I. photos
of her. I cried when I found out about this. How careless and reckless A.I. has been brought out. How the tech industry just doesn't seem
to care about what happens to people when they release these tools without regulations and restraint. It has stolen jobs in the healthcare
field where people are now dying because they have been denied care. A.I. Needs to be reserved for the sciences and taken out of the
standard consum er hands until it is properly regulated and artists , film  m akers, designers, are fully protected. Because A.I. currently just
spews out an am algam ation of already created works. It Floods social m edia with Lies, Scam s the Elderly with A.I. generative phone
calls. Fools people in love into believing they have found som eone special. A.I. is like nuclear energy. Without Serious world wide
regulation it can and has harm  the public with false inform ation, deepfakes, etc. With that I leave you with a quote from  a beloved m ovie
by all that best explains the current situation. 
"You stood on the shoulders of geniuses to com e up with som ething as quick as you could. And before you know it, you, you patent it
and package it, and slap it on a plastic lunch box, and now you're selling it, you're selling it!
-Dr. Ian Malcolm  (Jurassic park)


