PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 13, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 87-rr2y-n8lj
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1220
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Tabore Info Tech Inc
General Comment
Irresponsible and unethical use of AI and Generative AI invites potential high risks along with the benefits they add to the technology and
innovation landscape. And these risks are likely to am plify with m ore widespread adoption. Risks and Threats of AI need to be m anaged
carefully.
Attachments
Regulation and Governance


Regulation and Governance 
Irresponsible and unethical use of AI and Generative AI invites potential high risks along with the 
benefits they add to the technology and innovation landscape. And these risks are likely to amplify 
with more widespread adoption. Risks and Threats of AI need to be managed carefully.
Risks Associated with use and misuse of AI includes
Intellectual Property, if accidently included for training and shared publicly for access leads to
the erosion if the competitive advantage. The surge of Chinese firm Deepseek.ai is a very eye
opening and living example, wiping out billions of dollars in evaluation for firms investing in
the research and development of models for many years
Reputation – Generated deepfakes can negatively impact the businesses, society and politics
of sometimes leading to irreparable damages.
Fraud – AI and specifically Generative AI can be used to create abusive fraudulent content and
malwares presenting added cybersecurity risks
Risks Mitigation with Governance 
Regulatory measures to develop global AI compliance view, collaboration with regulators, monitoring 
compliance measures in place 
Reputation Management by establishing AI governance and ethics office, security and privacy controls, 
model audits for robustness
Competency development by upskilling for employees and general public with personalized  training 
and workshops, modernizing data management and analytics services including upgrading of IT 
infrastructure and  legacy and outdated data platform services to Cloud based data management 
services


