PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zf52-khv3
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5809
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Meghan Doil 
General Comment
I am  deeply concerned about AI being trained on personal data, personal creations, and anything hum an m ade without the expressed
consent of the creator. We are treading dangerously into what can only be defined as the theft of ideas and personhood. 
AI cannot create until a person has created som ething else first. and not even ONE person. hundreds of people, thousands. Years of
work poured into a novel. A lifetim e spent on a collection of poetry. Historical paintings with im m ense cultural significance. All boiled
down into num bers, regurgitated by technology while also dem anding vast am ounts of natural resources to create som ething that m ight not
even represent the result that was hoped for. What could the best end use of a product like this even be? An im age of a blurry, painterly
chicken sold at a hom e décor store that could have instead been created by or purchased from  a living artist? A Hollywood film  script that
boils down all of what should technically be 'successful' in a film  only to be described as generic slop that is forgotten within the year? 
Is the hum an and environm ental cost worth that? 
What happens when this m oves beyond generating im ages and internal em ails. What if AI begins stealing patents and scientific
achievem ents. What if it starts stealing faces, voices, m usic - what if it is used for fraud and to insight political infighting? 
Oh wait. I think it already has. 
I think there is the potential for AI - or let's call it what it is - advanced m achine learning - in the world. There should be a focus on training
it to detect cancerous tum ors and blood abnorm alities to help doctors help patients faster and m ore efficiently. We need to ask what AI
can do for us. Not what it can take from  us. 
Currently, though, AI as it is used to content creation is actively ruining lives that have spent years creating work, lives who have defined
them selves through their creations - portfolios of art, writing, m usic, S T O L L E N and appropriated without their consent. 
Stand up for your citizens. Do not let corporations steal from  the people only to sell their hard work back to them . This is OUR data.
OUR creations. OUR LIVES. And we do NOT consent to any of it being used. 


