PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-rg4f-4lj6
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2951
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
It is of m y opinion that this avaricious chase for AI is ultim ately what will doom  our entire nation. This rapacious need for infinite growth is
prim arily in service to the 1% and 5% of the nation. The flattery that this tech will m ake, "everyone's" life better is flim sy at best. Is this
tech going to be free? Will the com m on people be able to open up their phone and not be expected to pay a fee to use this m arvelous
technology? What of the people who's jobs are elim inated once this tech is far m ore widespread? We've already seen how trigger happy
people in charge have been by ordering m ass layoffs at the governm ental level, and AI isn't even all that well integrated. What kind of
devastation lies when that kind of power trickles down to the com m on people? As I see it, this tech is largely m eant as a m eans to offload
authority. Give authority to m achines, whilst the people that built them  get to sit back and take the credit. It's a deeply un-Am erican idea
and actively goes against the idea that we, the people are truly in charge of the nation. It actively assaults the ability to pursue happiness,
and it bleeds out m iddle class folk who will all likely be forced into poverty. There are certainly benefits to sections of AI; a com m on
usage is for tracking the path of cancers and potentially diseases early on in detection. But this whole GenAI, and the alleged, "AGI"
revolution is largely a bust. I fear continuing pursuit will at best elim inate Am erican freedom s, and at worst will cause another depression.
A Great Depression beyond which we can barely fathom  how m uch dam age it will cause. A financial disaster of global proportions.


