PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0plj-ehsq
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7093
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
aiopencom m ent2025


Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
I am an American who works as an artist and cartoonist, including in the public arts and entertainment 
industries. I have worked hard for years and gotten a MFA to develop the skills and knowledge to build 
my business, and have been lucky enough to make a decent living – until recently. 
The GenAI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten 
to destroy thousands of American small businesses like mine with their recent demand to 
create special carveouts in copyright law. 
AI systems can only function by first training on work made by people. My unique work, and the work 
of hundreds of thousands of other creators was taken and fed into these AI systems without our 
knowledge, consent, or any compensation. They ingest our work, reassemble it, and then sell it back 
to our clients – directly competing with us and cutting us out of the marketplace. I personally have lost 
work due to clients who would rather have a machine imitate my style by STEALING from me first! 
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions to make this 
practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a 
machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow suddenly “fair use”. They seem to 
believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it, who created it, or 
how personal or private that information or image is! – should be theirs for the taking. They claim that 
if this administration does not allow them to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American 
innovation. They are wrong. 
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to protect 
the incentive to create and innovate, and to ensure that creators are able to benefit from their 
hard work. 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big 
Tech, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new innovative piece of 
computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it immediately stolen by 
Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? Certainly why bother sharing it online? 
In an industry where online marketing is basically required, we will have no options for getting our 
work in front of people, and social media websites and the internet at large will be abandoned by 
creatives. How will we possibly make a living doing these things? 
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and Americans 
without permission, compensation, or transparency. 
At a bare minimum, any AI Action Plan should ensure that creators can decide whether or not 
our work is used by AI systems. Big Tech companies should be transparent about where their 
training data comes from, and should give compensation to the people they take from. There 
should be options for people whose data has already been scraped to opt out and have their 
data deleted from these datasets if they choose. Big Tech companies should be also required 
to label what content is AI generated.
We should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big 
Tech by rewriting copyright law. This document is approved for public dissemination. The document 


contains no business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.


