PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-m zk2-rwdv
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2509
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Allowing big tech com panies to take whatever they want as long as it "trains their m odels" is a gross and blatant violation of nearly every
IP copyright law known to m an. It is legalized theft being used to create lesser, m eaningless im ages and sounds as opposed to art. 
Furtherm ore, there exists a very obvious loophole - that if any theft of IP is fine as long as it's to train a LLM, then what is to stop the
com panies running these m odels from  having their "content" stolen as well? Where do the protections begin and end? Is the average
hardworking artist not afforded the sam e protections giant corporations get?
How will we deal with m edia com panies all over the world inevitably pulling their output from  US m arkets once their works can be stolen
with im punity? What will we do when Am erican art, once at the forefront of the worldwide industry, gains a reputation for being cheap,
disposable, unoriginal, and outright stolen?
These attem pts to rem ove guardrails are ill-considered and fueled by a desire to satisfy shareholders and boards of directors, not actual
individual hum an artists. This is, of course, par the course with these com panies. The technology has already done horrific things to the art
world in a few short years and it will only continue to do so. When we have no m ore Norm an Rockwells, this will be why. 
You have the power to stop this. You probably won't because ultim ately sabotaging Am erican art is good for your bottom  lines, but I
plead that you tap into what little sense of conscience you have to not participate, or worse yet, facilitate the dem ise of 200+ proud years
of outstanding Am erican artistic expression and culture.


