PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-vm n4-w13h
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3618
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Generative AI should not hold a place in the future of the US. It steals from  the livelihood of m illions of citizens in order to function and
attem pts to profit off the theft. It only holds any power through pulling wool over the eyes of Am ericans; it is not akin to the upgrade from
carriages to cars or radio to TV, and it does not do anything new. By fundam ental definition generative AI -cannot- do anything new, as it
doesn't actually learn from  the data it steals, it sim ply tries its best to guess at what's desired of it from  its databanks. 
In addition, GenAI is not profitable. It's been heard from  the m ouths of those who develop it that it costs m ore to allow people to use it
than any sort of m oney being m ade. Despite this, generative AI is an openly adm itted bid to take over jobs in the entertainm ent industry.
OpenAI is not the future; it is a dying corpse gasping for air and hoping to be elevated back up by the governm ent, and one that would
tank a very lucrative industry if enabled. Once people get tired of the sam ey, stale slop that generative AI produces, they will look to other
countries, and the econom y will drop harshly. Do not allow this to happen.
GenAI is not som ething that we want defining the future of our country; it would be a terrible look to say that a tool that has -depended-
on using content without perm ission is im portant to our future, and to allow these run-at-a-loss technologies to piggy back off of
governm ent funding to continue to fight a losing battle.


