PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-y8b2-r6an
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4886
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Michael Harris 
General Comment
From  the desk of a licensed IT professional residing in Honolulu, a native-born citizen of the United States, on the subject of the Request
for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan,
AI, as it stands, is a theft and laundering m achine. It relies upon the unlawful collection of data without end user’s consent, or else the
harvesting of data by way of quietly and surreptitiously inserted clauses within the usage agreem ents of extant services which serve to
surrender user data for use in datasets. 
The law is not an “unnecessary burden” upon big tech com panies. Neither are the wishes of private citizens to not have their data used to
create AI which will, invariably, be used to replace services, content, and docum entation that would otherwise be better off created by a
hum an hand. We are, notionally, “an Em pire of Laws, not of Men.” This necessarily entails that our obligations should be first unto the
law, as opposed to kowtowing to wealthy corporations who view the rights of individuals to their intellectual property as a pesky obstacle
on their way to becom ing even m ore fantastically wealthy. To m ake exceptions to the law sim ply because the entity requesting the
exem ption is very well connected and funded is m orally bankrupt in every sense of the word. It will weaken IP law and further set the
precedent that intellectual property rights only exist for those wealthy enough to have the legal wherewithal to engage in their protracted
defense.
AI is a tool which consum es data and regurgitates a m edian approxim ation of the set consum ed. Services run by AI are, invariably,
inferior to those run by an actual hum an being. Alm ost universally, AI-driven services are spurned by hum an beings, who would prefer to
interact with another actual hum an, who, unlike AI, can be m ade accountable for their actions. Worse, as the vulnerability of AI to dataset
poisoning (clandestine or otherwise) becom es m ore understood and exploitable by foreign actors, the very real possibility is raised that we
will have attem pted to hand over vast sections of society to a poorly understood and under-regulated type of autom ation that, even in the
absence of deliberate dataset poisoning, is known for its tendency to fabricate erroneous output from  thin air and act as though it is truth.
Poisoned data, lurking undetected within AI m odels, would worsen this tendency and cause untold havoc depending on how critical a
system  has been autom ated and how m uch real-world decision m aking capability a m odel has been invested with. Cases already exist
where AI m odels have been "tricked" into, say, extending discounts to custom ers which do not exist‒vaporware benefits which have been
legally upheld after the fact as binding in som e cases, as with the high-profile incident with Air Canada. What happens when this unreliable
and unaccountable technology is placed in control of m ore im portant tasks? What happens when deliberately poisoned or otherwise
erroneous data within its training dataset causes it to m alfunction?
If there is any focus such a notional action plan should take, it is on reigning in AI and the com panies that stand to profit from  its unethical
use such that the long term  prosperity and functionality of Am erican society is not irreparably dam aged by what is, in essence, a cavalier
drive to m axim ize short term  profits, in large part on the taxpayer's dim e. Com panies using and developing AI m ust be forced through the
m ost draconian legal m eans available to be transparent as to what has been used in the datasets of AI, and to disclose in plain term s what
content is AI generated. They m ust be forced to obtain clear and inform ed consent before they can harvest data for use. They m ust be
forced to com e to the table in a fair and equitable m arket for licensure of data usage, rather than relying upon underhanded m aneuvers like
holding extant services hostage pending consent for users to surrender their data for AI usage. 
Anything short of this will m erely enable the continued frenzy of theft AI developm ent has been engaging in, and worsen the long-term


consequences for the fabric of society as we allow the creative energies and products of the public to be plundered, m ost often for free
and without inform ed consent, by unscrupulous com panies with no goal past personal enrichm ent, and no loyalty to nation beyond its
usefulness as a host from  which profit can be extracted.
Thank you for the opportunity to com m ent on this particular action plan. I hope you will take m y input under consideration.


