PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zt3l-qbtn
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6390
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  OpenMined Foundation
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
OpenMined


 RFI on the Development of an AI Action Plan 
 March 15, 2025 
 To: the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) 
 National Coor dination Oﬃ ce (NCO), on behalf of the Oﬃce of Science and Technology 
 Policy (OSTP) 
 Thank y ou for opening up this RFI and for taking the time to review this response. I am 
 writing on behalf of OpenMined, a non-pr oﬁt foundation of 17,000+ community 
 members with signiﬁcant experience facilitating  structured  access  to proprietary AI 
 systems and their corr esponding components. For the past 7 years, we have developed 
 freely available open-source software infrastructure  for this purpose and deployed it 
 with v arious government, industry, and civil society partners. 
 American AI L eadership is at Risk 
 For years, the United States of America has held the top position in the global 
 leaderboar d for AI innovation, outpacing the world in machine learning model 
 development, frontier AI research, and private investment.  The United States'  1
 dominance in these key areas indicates a position of strength, but the People’s Republic 
 of China (PRC ) is working arduously to close this gap and has succeeded in shortening 
 the United States' lead.  
 In 2015, the PRC announced a national strategic plan and industrial policy -  Made in  
 China 2025  - to turn China into a manufacturing powerhouse,  mak e the country 
 self-r eliant, achieve technological leadership, supply chain dominance, and global 
 economic supr emacy.  An analysis  , published in April  2024 in a Hong Kong-based 
 newspaper , concluded that 86% of the objectives China outlined in their plan had been 
 1  The Stanford Institute for Human-Centered AI (HAI) created the Global and National AI Vibrancy Rankings 
 tool which provides a comprehensive global ranking of countries for each year from 2017 to 2023, along  
 with detailed metric-speci ﬁc comparisons to see how each country performs relative to others.  See 
 https://hai.stanford.edu/ai-index/global-vibrancy-tool  . 
 1  of  6 


 achieved.  A September 2024 report from then-Senator Marco Rubio found that China 2
 had r eached, or is near reaching, the technological cutting edge in most of the sectors it 
 has tar geted.  The r eport goes on to say, “If Xi Jinping were a fund manager, he would 3
 have every reason to be pleased with the performance of this portfolio.” 
 In 2017, China augmented its national industrial plans with the r elease of its  AI 
 Development Plan  , a blueprint char ting the country's  approach to developing AI and 
 sect oral applications. The stated goal of the plan was to make China the world’s primary 
 AI inno vation center by 2030. Given China’s previous performance on national plans, as 
 well as its r ecent rise in AI research output, presence at top-tier AI conferences, AI 
 patent origins, and pr oduction of STEM graduates, China is poised to achieve this goal. 
 A key factor in China’s ability to achieve this goal and the United States' potential to 
 cede its dominance is an o verlooked technical property of modern AI systems. While it 
 might seem that the r elationship between low-level algorithmic properties and high-level 
 geopolitical consequences would be distant, in this case the implication is pr ofound. 
 The supply chain for AI capability consists of thr ee critical resources: data, compute, 
 and algorithms - with human talent driving algorithmic de velopment. This triad creates a 
 crucial bottleneck in AI capability within any nation. T oday, an AI model’s capability is 
 currently constrained by the amount of these resources that a single organization can 
 acquir e. For example, in the United States, GPT-4.5, Claude 3.7, and Gemini 2.0 are all 
 constr ained by the amount of these resources that OpenAI, Anthropic, and Google 
 DeepMind, r espectively, can acquire. This constraint exists because AI models are 
 currently architected to be  a singular bundled artifact  - trained by a single entity despite 
 drawing resources from many places. This technical property creates a dire trap that 
 pushes democr atic nations, like the United States, toward increasingly anti-democratic 
 measur es. We can observe this trap through one of the emerging bottlenecks on the 
 above-mentioned resources: data. 
 Many companies in democr atic nations have already exhausted their supply of publicly 
 available training data  . Unlik e nations that can  simply nationaliz e private data from 4
 their citiz ens and corporations, democratic nations face a fundamental constraint: they 
 cannot match this r esource advantage without violating civil liberties. While China can 
 4  OpenAI’s former chief scientist, Ilya Sutskever, announced during his test of time 
 award speech at NeurIPS 2024 that, ”We’ve achieved peak data and there’ll be no more”.  See  generally 
 “  OpenAI cofounder Ilya Sutskever says the way AI is  built is about to change  ”.  3  See  “The World China Made “Made In China 2025” Nine  Years Later”.  2  See generally  “  Ten years on, the relative success  of Beijing's Made in China 2025 plan  ”. 
 2 


 compel Baidu, ByteDance, Alibaba, Tencent, and SenseTime, among other private ﬁrms 
 and its 1.4 billion citizens to share data under their Data Security Law  , the United States  5
 must respect the 4th Amendment and other privacy and property laws, ceding 
 leadership in access t o this key resource to China. 
 This bottleneck r eveals how the current AI race leads to an inevitable paradox: to 
 maintain dominance in building and deplo ying the world’s most powerful AI models, 
 democr atic societies, like the United States, would need to become less democratic. 
 They would need to compel their citizens and businesses to relax individual property 
 rights (e.g. cop yright), and to surrender their private data to train competitive models, all 
 in the name of national security and economic competitiv eness. 
 The technical r eality here creates an impossible choice for the United States: either lose 
 the AI r ace or win it by becoming more like what we seek to defeat. A nation whose 
 bedr ock values are individual liberty, free markets, and democratic accountability cannot 
 simultaneously build the most capable AI (which r equires nationalizing data and 
 compute r esources). 
 This tr ap is particularly insidious because it emerges not from any single policy choice, 
 but fr om the inherent nature of AI systems as centralized artifacts requiring centralized 
 contr ol. Understanding that these systems fundamentally aggregate data, compute, and 
 algorithmic capabilities int o central models reveals why their development inevitably 
 pushes t oward centralization of power. Democratic nations pursuing this path will ﬁ nd 
 themselves inexorably drawn toward increasingly anti-democratic measures, not 
 because any one desires this outcome, but because the technical architecture itself 
 demands it. This is not mer ely a moral dilemma - it is a fundamental strategic reality 
 that emer ges directly from the technical constraints. 
 The United States cannot win an AI r ace that requires us to abandon democracy itself. 
 Rewrite the Rules of the AI Race 
 Instead of leaning into their advantages, democratic societies have been competing in a 
 race that ampliﬁ es their strategic weakness. This weakness stems not from having 
 fewer of these key AI resources but from bundling them into centralized models. 
 Curr ently, an American AI model can only be as powerful as the data, compute, and 
 5  While this is a hypothetical scenario, the PRC arguably has these powers under the Data Security Law.  See 
 https://digichina.stanford.edu/work/translation-data-security-law-of-the-peoples-republic-of-china/ 
 3 


 talent that a single company can amass. A Chinese model can only leverage what its 
 government can command. But there exists a third way - one that could harness the 
 distributed r esources of the entire free market for information while preserving 
 individual agency and democr atic values. 
 Consider a new distributed infr astructure with an interoperable protocol layer enabling 
 contr olled data collaborations across organizations. This infrastructure would preserve 
 data under its original owner 's control through source-speciﬁ c partitioning rather than 
 centralized merging, enabling data owners to selectively participate in speciﬁ c AI 
 predictions while maintaining governance over their information. Like traditional AI 
 models, such an infr astructure would facilitate rapid knowledge synthesis, but in this 
 new par adigm AI models would combine distributed information only when needed and 
 while pr eserving source attribution throughout computation. AI models leveraging such 
 a distributed infr astructure for training, instead of a centralized one, would be far more 
 power ful than any single model leveraging resources from a single company or 
 government, because, in such a distributed infrastructure, models can leverage 
 resources from anyone participating in the global network. 
 Fortunately, this third way is not merely a theoretical possibility. Recent breakthroughs 
 across multiple ﬁ elds - from cryptography to distributed systems to network theory - 
 offer concrete tools to build such a distributed infrastructure. Advances in 
 privacy-enhancing technologies (PETs) also offer concrete solutions to develop the 
 necessar y protocol layer to power the distributed information system. Such an 
 infrastructure would allow the United States to redeﬁ ne the rules of the AI race and 
 compete in an environment where we make full use of our inherent advantages. 
 Securing American L eadership in AI 
 The infrastructure and protocol mentioned above are still in the early stages of research 
 and de velopment, going through proof-of-function pilot projects. The end-to-end 
 ecosystem envisioned does not y et exist, but most of the individual pieces of 
 technology necessar y to power such an ecosystem do exist and are ready for further 
 testing.  
 A central component of the AI Action Plan should prioritize funding the research, 
 infrastructure development, and testing required to support this distributed 
 infrastructure as a core feature of strengthening the United States’ national AI capability 
 and maintaining its competitiv e edge in AI innovation. Such testing should be 
 4 


 concretized in technical standards after successful demonstrations of the end-to-end 
 system are complete. Through bold investments like these, the Trump Administration 
 can sustain and enhance America 's global AI dominance to promote human ﬂ ourishing, 
 national security and economic prosperity for the nation for decades to come. 
 China 's desire to be the world’s primary AI innovation center by 2030 only works if AI 
 resources cannot be easily shared amongst a group wider than a corporation or nation. 
 History has taught time and time again that free networks beat nations. Case in point, 
 befor e the internet, the USSR deployed massive resources to catch up with the United 
 States’ dominance in mainfr ame computing. In response, the United States changed the 
 rules of the game and star ted networking their computers together through a series of 
 pilots acr oss organizations around the country in a program that changed the world: the 
 Advanced Research Projects Agency Network, better known as ARPANET. The DOD 
 established ARP ANET, which developed a new technology, which later became the 
 TCP/IP protocol we know and use today. ARPANET’s creation was motivated, in part, to 
 allow ARP A-sponsored researchers at various corporate and academic institutions to 
 utiliz e computers provided by ARPA to communicate with each other and, in part, to 
 distribute new softwar e quickly. In short, the creators wanted to enable resource sharing 
 between r emote computers. 
 Access t o ARPANET was expanded through an NSF-funded project called NSFNET 
 which was a pr ogram of coordinated, evolving projects to promote research and 
 education networking in the United States. The pr ogram created several nationwide 
 computer networks in suppor t of these initiatives, initially aiming to create an academic 
 research network to facilitate access for researchers to NSF-funded supercomputing 
 centers, but thr ough further public funding and private industry partnerships, NSFNET 
 developed into the backbone of the modern Internet. 
 The technological adv ancements and practical applications achieved through the 
 ARPANET project under the DOD and the NSFNET project under the NSF resulted in 
 American technological dominance — not b y building the biggest computer, but by 
 networking the entir e world's computers in a free and democratic web — the Internet. 
 Today, we can do the same with AI. China can force its 1.4 billion people to share their 
 data with their national AI pr ojects, but they can't force the world's other 6.6 billion 
 people t o trust it or use it. By establishing the standard protocol for trusted AI 
 collabor ation, America can once again turn its democratic values into technological 
 advantage. Just as the open protocols of the Internet unleashed a wave of innovation 
 that left closed national networks behind, America can build the pr otocol that will make 
 5 


 centralized AI obsolete and carry on the centuries-long trend toward greater freedom  
 and democracy around the world through superior technologies.  
 The window for action is now. China is betting everything on size. We need to change  
 the game before they realize they're playing the wrong one. Just as ARPANET  
 transformed computing from a race for bigger machines into a democratic network that  
 changed the world, America needs to transform the AI race from a contest of size into a  
 collaboration that ampli ﬁes human potential. The future of intelligence is network ed, not  
 centralized. Let's build it.  
 Warmly,  
 Lacey Strahm  
 Head of Policy, OpenMined  
 
 6 


