PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2f6s-dzte
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8265
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Jett Barker
Em ail:  
General Comment
Hello. For the fastest possible context: I am  a form er software developer and QA tester now working prim arily as an actor (videogam es
and anim ation focus) and audio engineer (audiobook focus). I have a degree in both Theatre and Com puter Science. My background and
current status as an interdisciplinary professional m ake m e intim ately fam iliar with both technology and the arts. My pursuit of varied
disciplines has never felt incongruous to m e; conversely, I strongly believe that "traditional" art and technology are inherently sym biotic as a
m eans through which hum anity expresses our thoughts, em otions, and agency.
Art is a m eans through which we retain the ability to connect with our forebears; it destroys the barriers of tim e and allows us to convey
m essages to those who will com e hundreds or thousands of years after our death.
The current wave of "generative" AI technology does not, has never, and (insofar as I am  concerned) will never possess a m eaningful
capacity to create original works or be used as a m eaningful m easure through which hum ans can articulate our experiences. It is nothing
m ore than a m eans of soulless plagiarism , scraping and regurgitating the contributions of hum an beings who expended such trem endous
efforts to express the joy of creation. I do not wish to live in a world that has autom ated away all joy of creation.
Another valuable detail: I am  physically disabled. My disability has rendered m e unable to perform  what was once an integral part of m y
identity as an artist and hum an being. I grew up as a pianist rather than an actor; the progressive loss of joint function in m y hands has left
m e without the ability to partake in playing m y instrum ent at even 10% m y prior capacity.
I would rather render m y hands entirely bereft of all function before allowing robots to scrape what com positional contributions I have
m ade with absolutely zero m eans of recourse. The idea of them  reanim ating m y contributions to m usic without any m easure of prevention,
consent, or stoppage is viscerally repugnant to m y sense of hum anity and overall m orality as a hum an being.
Additionally, I im plore you, on behalf of the >160,000 creatives currently striking with SAG-AFTRA in a financially brutal strike that is
*existentially* im portant in preventing the decim ation of our industry and artistry by unregulated AI, to not give OpenAI and all its "kin"
(i.e. other "generative" AI com panies) any ground in violating creatives' rights to our own work and contribution to the grand tapestry of
hum an experience.
Please extend even a m odicum  of respect for the contributions of all hum an beings to the arts; we are fundam entally social anim als. Som e
of our earliest artifacts from  hom o sapiens are instrum ents. Even if creative professionals m ean nothing to you: every drawing produced by
a child, or illustration done absent-m indedly on a lunch break, or tune hum m ed from  seem ingly nowhere whilst buying groceries, should
not be fodder for algorithm ic regurgitation. Protecting the arts is protecting the value of hum anity, both in concept and in practice. Thank
you for your tim e.


