PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-36ue-pld1
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8889
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Chris Panatier  
General Comment
Artificial Intelligence is not intelligence. It is an aggregator and guesser. AI doesn't create an im age, it guesses what im age the prom pt
writer wants based on m illions and m illions of im ages it has digested. AI doesn't create a story, it guesses what the next word is in each
sentence based on m illions and m illions of stories it has digested. Most of these im ages and m ost of these stories used to train these AIs
are stolen.
Perhaps the com panies pushing AI (that m ost people don't even want) thought nobody would notice. The only way for their m achine to
live is to eat, and rather than pay for its food, these com panies are now asking the governm ent to let it eat for free--and not food that's just
laying around. They want the governm ent to green light STEALING the work of hum an creators so their m achine can function at
extrem ely low cost.
Let's be clear, while I don't think any artist should ever give perm ission for their art (broadly speaking, visual m edia or written stories) to
be digested and regurgitated by an AI program , it is within their rights to do so. And there are already plenty of artists doing just that. The
problem  is, the AI com panies would rather not pay for it. 
Tough. 
AI is having trouble pushing their product because there is a lack of dem and. Perhaps they should pivot. Instead, these Silicon Valley
welfare queens want to get rich off of the work of real, flesh and blood creators. 
The rule of law and governm ent of the United States have always held the rights to real and personal property am ong its highest values.
The broad strokes of copyright law have been settled for decades. But now, a bunch of over-leveraged com panies that didn't think
through their plan are having trouble m oving forward unless they get the governm ent's perm ission to com m it theft in broad daylight. This
stands against the law and the values this country has to this point held sacred. The people of the United States owe these AI com panies
nothing. 
They have no right to be preem ptively bailed out before they ever even provide a product that anyone wants. The audacity to beg the US
governm ent for a special rule that allows them  free range through the pages of author's books and the labor of an artists brushstrokes is
shocking.
If AI com panies can't do it on their own, m aybe they should revisit their business plans. Or m aybe they should create som ething people
will actually pay for and use. 
Denying them  the ability to steal the work of others will force them  to create a better product or to abandon it. In that case, it wasn't worth
it. 
Don't be fooled by Silicon Valley parseltongues who use big words you as a legislator don't understand. It doesn't m ake them  sm art.
Stand up for everyday people who create the books you read, the art you appreciate, and the shows you watch. Dem and that AI


com panies do it like everyone else when m aking a product: PAY FOR THE RAW MATERIALS.


