PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 13, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 87-y624-32cn
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1252
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Jessam yn Powers-Pidlypchak
General Comment
AI cannot and should not EVER be allowed to be trained on copyrighted works - the only logic reason for AI com panies to desire to is
because it would allow them  to forgo Ever having to hire artists or writers ever again, which would dem olish the Am erican workforce and
econom y in a way we have never before seen. It would leave m illions of artists to slowly but steadly be cut off from  the artistic careers
they aspire to, leading to poverty and a substantial decrease on the quality of life for not just them  as creators, but for their would-have-
been future audiences. 
Once upon a tim e, I rem em ber hearing m y teachers and other adults in m y life praising technological advancem ent because they believed
the goal of Am erican's talented engineers and coders was to autom ate m enial tasks; The dishes, the laundry, other cleaning services, and
even m ore hopefully, difficult and tedious jobs such as construction and factory work. They believed, and told m e and m y peers so
confidently, that that was the future we had to look forward too. A world free of endless, m ind num bing work - where we would be able
to pursue and share our creative ideas with wide audiences for the enjoym ent and entrichm ent of all. 
Now, All these "AI" com panies want to autom ate ART, so that people will have m ore tim e for grueling work in an trashfire econom y, just
to try to stay above the poverty line. How is this just? How can you sit there and honestly expect your constituents, the Am erican People,
to sit by and allow our futures to be stripped of our freedom  to create ART for a living? To turn the task over to robots and codes,
soulless and profane? 
Is that how you would like to treat Hum anity's oldest hobby? Is this how we will spit on the graves of our ancestors, by prohibiting our
children and grandchildren from  nurturing their creative hearts by forcing them  to subm it anything they m ake to som e greedy CEO to train
his plagiarism  m achines to keep m aking his own quick bucks? 
AI should be banned outright - but seeing as that is not what this m otion is about, I will settle for this. DO NOT ALLOW AI TO BE
TRAINED ON COPYRIGHTED WORKS. It is an insult to hum anity on the whole, and this adm inistration will be rem em bered foully for
it if they allow it to occur.


