PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-m m 5o-dquo
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2479
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Anonymous Anonymous 
General Comment
I work as an artist in the entertainm ent industry. Ai technology has had a big effect in m y industry, and the tech world in general. Studios
are closing, people are being laid off, and m any are living in fear that their job will disappear. Ai com panies are disregarding security
concerns, and are trying to consum e and replace people in the nam e of progress. Open Ai has already had instances where its m odel has
tried to replicate itself, ignored (or tried to delete) security protocols, or pretended it was obeying when it actually wasn't. These are real
problem s, and it is a security risk, and should be handled extrem ely carefully, and with caution. Ai giants are pushing for less barriers, and
less regulation as it grows into our m ilitary, defense, and gov. Do not allow this.
I'm  concerned about the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan. This plan would allow Ai com panies to train their
m odels using everything online essentially. This would allow Ai com panies to steal intellectual property from  anyone, and then use that
stolen property to create things that will com pete, or replace the people who created it in the first place. An exam ple of this is with art. It is
breaking copyright for these com panies to use art they don't own in order to train their Ai program s to create art. This proposed Ai action
plan allows Ai to steal everyone's art, then create art just like those they stole it from . The result being that the very people whose art
trained the m achine are replaced by the m achine. These artists who were robbed aren't com pensated, and will have their job disappear or
shrink vastly. As an artist, it is vital to show m y artwork in order to get m ore business. We need to create safeguards to protect people
like m e, and the countless others in m y industry, and other industries who will have the sam e thing happen to them .
Please oppose this plan, and support greater Ai safety and security going forward.


