PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3kl9-df8t
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9559
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Katia Ricciarelli V. Reed
Em ail:  
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Katia Ricciarelli V. Reed_Us Ai Action Plan _Com m ent


1 March 15, 2025  
From: Miss. Katia  Ricciarelli V . Reed 
“This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.” 
Artificial Intelligence (Ai) unethical training on Artist copyrighted works and American Citizen’s 
data is equal to America’s legacy built on theft and slavery.  We must not allow America to 
continue in that cycle of dishonesty and theft to ensure America’s Golden Age. 
Right now, there are a few key items needed before we can begin to develop America’s Ai 
technologies. With a common sense and very creative approach we can build cutting edge top of 
the line ethical Ai technology guided by a combination of laws with a clear and moral compass.  
PHASE 1: RIGHT THE WRONGS 
•The first step is a call to justice for Suchir Balaji, a silenced Open Ai whistleblower who
blew the whistle on Open Ai, its crimes such as unethical training on copyrighted work as
well as Ai’s dark truths. His mother and family are grieving. What happened to him and
how he is treated even in death is wrong. It is important to address this as a nation and
learn from this whistleblower his findings on Ai and pick up where he left off. We must
honor his legacy and make sure the ones who silenced him are held accountable.
•The second is immediately enforce all intellectual property laws, both nationally andinternationally. No person or company is above the law. It is not okay to break the law in
our country so people who do it need to be held accountable. The Creative Industries
alone bring in around 1.10 trillion annually to America’s Economy . It is as important as
any Profession and should be safeguarded as currently American Creative industries isunder attack from Ai tech abuses and crime. Without regulation, Artist professions are
being highjacked mostly by counterfeits nationally and internationally. These counterfeits
have never gone to school or studied any of the Art Professions in the Creative Industries,
nor did they undergo the creative process to produce a work of art on their own without
Ai. Now at the push of a button, Ai regurgitates the stolen intellectual property and data
accordingly. The counterfeits then claim the stolen work produced by Ai as their own and
are now deemed an Artist. This vile act not only undermines the Real Authentic Artist
values and creativity but steals away the livelihood, opportunities, and markets which
rightfully belong to the Real Authentic Artist.
CASE STUDY 1: At Sotheby’s Auction house, an Ai art piece made by an Ai 
robot sold at $1.32 million. The robot responsible being named, Ai’da even has a resume on the company’s website which includes many solo exhibitions, media 
exposure, and artist residency opportunities. What’s intriguing is its educational 
experiences which is none of its own but rather programmed by the programmers who engineered it. With  that being said, we must ask this question. . . If Ai’da the 
robot wasn’t meant to replace a Human Artist , then why does the robot have a 


2 resume and is being paid with the art it generated at one of the most renowned 
auction houses in the world? Ai’da’s data needs to be audited as this is a British 
company who may have infringed will fully on American Intellectual Property 
laws for the sake of Ai’da’s training. What’s more ironic is at the bottom of the 
company website is the copyright symbol followed by all rights reserved.     
With  that being said, the Real Authentic Artist from across all branches of Arts are being 
kicked to the curve when they need protection most from Ai Abuses and Crimes such as what was mentioned in Case Study 1. The Real Authentic Artist must have the full rights 
and protections to the works they create and should be paid for the work they create. If 
their rights are infringed upon, the laws of our nation should support them.  
•All Ai generated work, content, and materials must be labeled as such. It is important to
separate reality from make believe so that Ai does not disrupt the perception of reality or
impersonate the human connection.
•Ai should never be allowed to make any kind of human decision. Again, it is a machine
that is programmed by people who feed it other people’s thoughts, works, and dataaccordingly. It’s not alive and cannot think for itself nor can it create anything new. It is
ludicrous to try and humanize Ai.
CASE STUDY 2: Japan has one of the highest suicide rates in the world due to 
the disruption of the human connection in the face of advancing Ai and technology. The effect ripples down and creates unnecessary economic hardships 
on its people. For example, at robot cafes there are no human staff. Patrons sit 
isolated in booths with their heads down and eat their Ai made food in with their 
phones to entertain them. Many can’t afford basic needs like a roof over their 
head because their livelihoods are being replaced with Artificial Intelligence, 
much like Ai’da mentioned in, Case Study 1. Japan has also not only underpaid 
their Artists in their Creative Industries but taken away their Artists rights to their 
works and creations for the sake of their Ai’s advancement. At this point, the 
question we should be asking ourselves is this. . . Do we want America to descend into a depression with high suicide rates and a mass exodus as Ai and technology 
takes over leaving us with nothing but an elderly population waiting to die? 
Because the fact of the matter is that people are going go where their expertise 
and intellect is appreciated and their right to life is protected and preserved from Ai and technology. 
CASE STUDY 3: A woman was shocked to discover that Ai decided if she would 
receive a liver transplant that she needed to live. The Ai made its decision based 
on a survival of the fittest mentality and denied her the right to a transplant. 
What’s even more disturbing is that no human doctor was consulted on this 
woman’s health care. Only the Ai.   
If we build America to have legislation in place to regulate Ai as well as enforced 
intellectual property laws to protect the rights of the people and their intellectual property, 


3 we will  become a Sanctuary Nation that will attract the brightest minds and companies in 
all fields beyond our borders. They will  come to us for what their nations failed to do for 
them, and that’s simply protect them and do right by them. The result of this 
extraordinary leadership from our country will graft what could been other countries 
blessing, now becomes our blessing in our golden age. When you do things with a moral 
compass and with honesty, you will always have a better outcome. You will prosper in 
ways you never knew.   
•We need to find a way to produce clean gentle energy Ai with sustainable micro-Ai data
centers to reduce the carbon print Ai technologies are making. It is scientifically proven
that current Ai technologies impact the environment in a negative way. It’s high levels of
freshwater consumption to up to millions of gallons along with high doses of electricity
just to produce one Ai prompt. Global warming is real. The animals and all creation are
suffering due to the destructive nature of the technology and careless human behavior.
Perhaps solar powered Ai may be a better option.
PHASE 2 – BIRTH OF THE SUPERIOR COPYRIGHT 
•All Ai technologies need to have their data training sets audited shared with the public as
DOGE did with auditing government spending. The public has the right to know what
companies harvested the data, where the data came from, who ordered it to be fed to the
Ai, how many renditions of that data is out there, and what those renditions are. WE THE
PEOPLE have the right to transparency so there can be restitution for all victims of Ai
crimes such as intellectual property infringements and data theft.
•The traditional copyright from the US Copyright Office is not enough to secure American
Intellectual Properties from Ai tech abuses and crimes on the web. To remedy thesituation, I propose we use the blockchain technology to help safeguard American
Intellectual Property and digital assets. This would be a digital footprint of registered IP
infused with an Ai technology. The Ai can patrol the Superior Copyright blockchain and
detect any infringements on the vast web for any likeness of that digital footprint. The Ai
can then alert the US Copyright Office as well as registered Superior Copyright holders
of the infringement. Like a person tracing their ancestry, this system can trace any Ai
creations point of origin so that in event of theft and exploitation of any given unique
work, no matter the percentage used of that work, the system being the Superior
Copyright powered by blockchain technology infused wit h Ai, can help enforce all
intellectual property laws and collect compensation immediately as well as stop andblock infringements upon discovery. This should become the universal gold standard for
all to follow countries to follow.
CASE STUDY 4: On average, the US annually loses up to $600 billion from 
general copyright infringements. With digital video piracy alone, we lose up to 
$71 billion. W
ith these numbers in mind, we can get an idea of American Creative 
Industries worth and how it plays a huge part in our economy. One must now ask 
two questions. . . Why are we losing all that hard earned income? Who is 
committing these infringements? I can answer both of those questions with a 


4 single question. If we don’t respect our own citizens intellectual property rights, 
what makes you think others will? Most infringements on American Intellectual 
Property are coming from other countries. This is due to our intellectual property 
laws not being respected, upheld, nor enforced. 
•Tech companies and Social Media Platforms of all calibers such as Meta, OpenAi,
Pintrest, Linkedin, TikTok, Apple, Microsoft, Google etc...  should not be allowed to be
internet slum lords taking User Data and doing as they please with it. They should not be
allowed to use underhanded backdoor tactics to acquire data such as auto opt-in often that
occurs with software updates and such. The users should have the decision to opt-in to
having their data used for Ai training with paid licensing opportunities before it updates.
Not after. The opt-in button needs to be clearly displayed. Not hidden through a maze of
menus.
PHASE 3- BIRTH OF THE DIGITAL OPS, WHERE THE DIGITAL WORLD MEETS THE 
PHYISCAL WORLD 
•There are a lot of fake companies that exploit users through the internet, now more than
ever especially with  Ai. People are being scammed everyday out of money. Hackers are
hacking successfully stealing identities and data daily. In addition, social media
influencers will outwardly break laws in doing various challenges and post videos of
people who they harass with no accountability. Most often the content posted is hyper
sexualized, violent, aggressive, manipulative, harmful, gross in nature, and downright
hateful. There is a lot of cyber bullying. There are people who outwardly attack people
online and hide behind the guise of free speech. People will take other people’s image,
sound and likeness doing as they please with it. At times presenting stolen images in
harmful ways even altering them to fit their deranged narrative, again without consent,
leaving victims with no legal recourse. One must wonder why social media platforms
allow such content on their platforms and to allow such content to go viral especially if
its harmful to humanity . There is so much good healthy content, but a lot of it goes
unseen and suppressed. Content remains unregulated. To make matters worse thisunregulated content in addition to unregulated Ai is assessable to our most vulnerable US
population being babies, children, and teens.
CASE STUDY 5: A teenager was using a Character.ai chatbot, talking to it about 
his parents taking away his screentime. The chatbot implied that the teen should 
kill his parents. The teen, thank goodness, showed his parents the conversation with the chatbot. The parents then filed a lawsuit against Character.ai and Google. 
In another incident from Character .ai, a teen took his life because his Ai girlfriend 
dumped him. That’s not all, there have been reports of Character .ai chatbots 
grooming minors. Now think about this. . .  If Ai is not here to replace parents, human interaction, or harm minors, then why did the chatbot of Character.ai 
suggest to a minor to kill his parents? 
And why did it start a relationship with a 
minor in the second incident? A serious question for parents, do you really want 
Ai to parent your children and have such inappropriate relations with your 
children? Keep in mind the ones who engineered the Ai to do what it does are 


5 most likely adult men. I believe the individuals who programmed the Ai in these 
dangerous ways should absolutely be held accountable to the full extent of the 
law.  
CASE STUDY 6: High school kids used female classmates’  pictures without 
consent in an Nudify Ai app to generate nudes of them. Soon after, CES 2025 
convention, unveils customizable Humanoid robots for sale that you can make 
look like anyone. All you need is their picture. And to mimic their mannerisms 
and voice all you need is a few seconds worth of video clip that has them 
speaking and moving around. Even your deceased loved ones can be 
impersonated by a robot. Mind you this service is available to ANYONE, 
anywhere. To make matters worse, China rolls out an Ai that generates 
pornographic videos of anyone by simply using their picture. Now ask yourself 
this question. . . Without safeguards and legislation to prevent abuses and crimes 
like these, what more unspeakable horrors worse than this will happen?    
I would like to note that Google recently removed their pledge from their Ai Principles of 
not using Ai for weapons or surveillance. To me that raises a lot of red flags. With that 
being said, it’s time we clean up our digital streets and make the internet safe again. I 
propose we instate an entire new branch which I will call the Digital Ops. Like our 
physical world, we have police stations, state troopers, swat teams, hospitals, fire fighters, 
91l, and more. We depend on these services to help keep us safe from all kinds of crimes. 
We can call them at any time for help when our rights are threatened in any way shape or 
form and immediate action is assessed and taken. That is premise is the same premise for 
the Digital Ops. They will bridge the digital world with physical world’s  governing laws 
and legislations patrolling the internet for crime and responding to reports with immediate remedies. They can also investigate virtual residencies if crime is reported or 
even suspected, again, mirroring the laws of physical world. Users can also visit Digital 
Ops stations through the internet and receive service for any kind of violation that they 
feel are impeding on their rights. With this in place, the gray areas of the internet will be 
reduced. Cybercrimes of any kind can now longer outrun the physical world laws and 
legislations no what state, region, or country you’re in. Introducing additional legislation 
to reinforce the power of the Digital Ops wil l ensure law and order is kept in our digital 
world.  
PHASE 4- ANTI AI DISARMING TECHNOLOGY 
•We need to build up our defenses. With that said, developing an Anti-Ai
 disarming
technology would be advised. As each country builds up their own Ai systems, we needto build one that has both powerful offense and defense capabilities to attack and disarm
any Ai threatening our country.
CASE STUDY 7:  We don’t want a terminator situation with Ai. There is plenty 
of data showing robots attacking and killing people in other countries and right 
here on American soil. If we ever come across such threat going forward, we need 
to be able to disarm the Ai with a fail-proof way. This foreign Ai.   


 6 THE AI TIMELINE OF EVENTS  
 
To first understand why we need to enforce intellectual property laws and put additional 
legislation to help regulate Ai, you must understand the timeline of events of how the unethical 
Ai systems came to be. It’s critical that no stone or detail is overlooked and all factors considered 
especially for the construct of the US Ai Action Plan.  
 
It is from my understanding that OpenAi started in 2015. We know it is headed by Sam Altman. 
It was also Co-Founded and funded by Elon Musk. It is said that Mr. Musk only funded OpenAi 
under the premise that the Ai technology would be designed and developed to benefit humanity. 
Also, the company is to stay nonprofit, open source and available to all. So hence the 
development commenced. Somewhere from that time to 2018, Mr. Musk clashes heads with Mr. 
Altman  because Mr. Altman was stepping outside the moral pillars of which Mr. Musk wanted 
OpenAi built upon. So, Mr. Musk parted ways with Open Ai in 2018 and tried to take Mr. Altman  to court for breach of contract to this 2025 date. I feel it is important to mention that in 
2019 Bill Gates from Microsoft invested in OpenAi with 1 billon and would continue to fund a few billion more through 2024. Microsoft itself is in competition with Alphabet Google and 
other rivaling Ai technologies.  
 
In 2020 Suchir Balaji, a young tech genius joins OpenAi as a OpenAi Researcher.  It is clear Mr. 
Balaji made significant contributions in building Chat GPT. One of his duties included gathering 
data from the internet and feeding it to the Ai technology. That’s when Mr. Balaji witnessed a 
very dark and unethical side to OpenAi. One of crimes if you will, included outwardly breaking 
copyright and intellectual property laws for the sake of Ai advancement. In other word’s feeding 
the Ai technology stolen Artists copyrighted works and creations from all branches of the Arts. I would like to note that In January of 2024, OpenAi went to British Parliament asking them to 
essentially legalize theft by erasing copyright law so that the company can continue to profit. 
 
Mr. Balaji parted ways with OpenAi in August 2024 and blew the whistle on them becoming a 
Whistleblower. He was supposed to testify for the New York Times as a key witness in trial 
however never was able to because he was found dead November 26, 2024, in his San Francisco 
apartment within a day or two of the trial. The San Francisco police immediately ruled Suchir’s 
death as a suicide. 
  
In January 2025 Mr. Balaji’s mother, Poorinima Ramarao is interviewed by Tucker Carlson 
where she unveils the bone chilling truth about Open Ai and son’s death. Mrs. Ramarao didn’t 
believe the narrative being painted about her son’s death, so she hired a private investigator. She 
reported the findings of that investigation show that Mr. Balaji was attacked in his apartment. 
They reveal he fought back. He was shot from the back of the head, not the front. His apartment 
was also ransacked with his research and files pertaining to Open Ai missing, taking, splattered 
blood everywhere, and there was a piece of a wig in the crime scene which doesn’t belong to Mr. 
Balaji. She also points out that her son had given New York Times important documents 
concerning Open Ai and its infringements. New York Times has yet to disclose what those 
documents are. Mr. Musk himself reacts to the interview in a tweet of his own saying, “This 
doesn’t seem  like suicide.” 
 


7 It is clear Ai crimes and Ai tech abuses are escalating. From spilling blood to committing the 
biggest large-scale  Art Heist of the century, Ai has now turned its tentacles to mass harvesting 
everyone and everything’s data available on the internet. Data has now become the value of 
precious gold and in the race for Ai advancement, many companies have forsaken the moral 
compass they once followed. Companies like Meta and TikTok use underhanded back door 
tactics to acquire the data exploiting Users by not allowing anyone outside of Europe to opt-out 
of Ai training. Apple recently did an update on the phone systems which automatically opts users into having all data in their phones harvested to its Ai technology. You can opt-out but that’s after 
the data is stolen through that underhanded update. Microsoft did the same thing, Linkedin, and 
Pintrest, among many more. Even Photobucket was caught red handed selling billions of Users 
photos to third party for Ai biometrics training. And now, Ai is being pushed onto everyone. 
Companies are downsizing as hey embrace Ai and its glorified regime leaving American’s 
jobless. Ai is greatly harming Artist and all Creative Industries. It is now making its destructive 
rounds to other Professions outside of those industries.  
In Jan 2025, President Trump steps into office and inherits this unethical Ai mess. He is 
immediately swarmed by Tech Giant CEO’s such as Sam Altm an, Mark Zuckerburg, and Jeff 
Bezos among many. President Trump then announces Project Star Gate headed that is to be 
headed by Open Ai Sam Altman which is even a surprise to Mr. Musk. Along with that President 
Trump announces his plans to remove all Ai safeguards for the sake of Ai advancement. 
Pennsylvania also becomes the first state to partner with Open Ai in an “Ai Pilot Program.” Open Ai makes another surprising announcement that it wants to become a for-profit company. Mr.  
calls out Mr. Altman in a series of tweets referring to him as, SCAM Altman . Mr. Musk even 
attempts to buy out Open Ai however Mr. Altman refuses. Meanwhile Mrs. Ramarao is still 
advocating for justice for her son who the mainstream media continues to paint the narrative that 
he committed suicide despite the evidence from the private investigation Mrs. Ramarao shared 
with Tucker Carlson and a few other independent news outlets.    
Then here comes the climax. Sometime in Feb 2025, Deep Seek Ai is unveiled and blindsides 
everyone even Mr. Alman. Feeling violated, Mr. Altman claims that China stole Open Ai from 
him and now thinks copyright law should be enforced. If what Mr. Altman said is true, then Deep 
Seek China succeeded in single handily getting all America’s data along without breaking a 
sweat . In the midst of all of this, Mr. Musk doesn’t seem nervous at all and casually puts out 
Grok 3 naming it the most advanced Ai system in the world.         
Then comes the push back from Artist everywhere. Meta finds itself in a huge lawsuit regarding 
stolen pirated books which they took and feed to their Ai technology. The judge made Meta turn 
over its company email correspondence on their corporate computers. These emails reveal Meta 
employees discussing the crime they are committing with unethical Ai training stating, “ that 
everyone is doing it.”  
Now throw the Copyright Office in the mix. They allow Ai Art to be copyrighted, knowing that 
the Ai technology is built on stolen copyrighted works making unethical. The title of the Ai Art is 
called, “A Single Piece of American Cheese” by Kent Keirsey. This action renders the copyright 
useless and defective.    


 8 Artist in the UK rally against Ai as the tech giants push to abolish copyright law for the sake of 
Ai advancement.  Paul McCartney even speaks against it.  
 
As of this March 12, 2025, day Mrs. Ramarao shares a photo still from the security camera 
which is the last moment her son is seen alive the day he was killed. He absolutely doesn’t look 
depressed or suicidal. This raises a thousand more questions. Who had the most to gain from Mr. 
Balaji’s death?  
 
To end this proposal, I would like to quote Walker Larson who writes for the Epoch Times,  
“Only someone ignorant could see no difference between the lifeless soulless grinding of a 
machine and a living breathing, human being who can open his eyes in wonder.”  
 
Respectfully,  
Miss . Katia  Ricciarelli V . Reed 
  
  
  
 
              
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 9 REFERENCES 
 
Policy Circle Brief, “The Creative Economy.” The Policy Circle,  
https://www.thepolicycircle.org/briefs/the-creative-
economy/#:~:text=In%20the%20U.S.%2C%20arts%20and,state's%20creative%20economy%20
profile%20here 
 NASAA, “Facts and Figures on American’ s Economy, Economic Impact & 
Participation.”https://nasaa-arts.org/nasaa_research/facts-figures-on-americas-creative-
economy/ 
 Ai’da Robot, https://www.ai-darobot.com/ 
 Casey Crownheart, “Ai is an energy hog. What this means for climate change.” MIT Technology 
Review, 23 May, 2024 https://www.technologyreview.com/2024/05/23/1092777/ai-is-an-energy-
hog-this-is-what-it-means-for-climate-change/ 
 
David Berreby “As Use of A.I. Soars, So Does the Energy and Water it Requires.” Yale 
Environment 360, 6 Feb, 2024 https://e360.yale.edu/features/artificial-intelligence-climate-
energy-emissions 
 CRI Group “Intellectual Property: What do the statistics  
indicate?”https://crigroup.com/intellectual-property-what-do-the-statistics-indicate/ 
 
Kevin Madigan “The Truth about Global Copyright Infringement.” Copyright Alliance, 24 Mar, 
2020,  https://copyrightalliance.org/the-truth-about-global-copyright-
infringement/#:~:text=The%20key%20findings%20of%20the,%E2%80%9D%20or%20%E2%8
0%9Ceffective%E2%80%9D%20framework. 
 Ellie Stevens “What happens when we train our ai on social media?” Fast Company, 19 Apr, 
2024 https://www.fastcompany.com/91109348/hed-what-happens-when-we-train-our-ai-on-
social-media 
 
Matt Growcoot “Shocked Artist Finds Private Medical Photos in AI Training Data Set” Peta 
Pixel, 26 Sept, 2022 https://petapixel.com/2022/09/26/shocked-artist-finds-private-medical-
photos-in-ai-training-data-set/  
 
Globetrender “Automation, loneliness and AI in modern Japan.” Globetrender Magazine, 10  
Jun, 2024 https://globetrender.com/2024/06/10/automation-loneliness-ai-modern-japan/ 
 Catherine Thorbecke “Japan’s soft AI stance is betraying its anime artist.” Japan Times, 9 Aug, 
2024 artist”https://www.japantimes.co.jp/commentary/2024/08/09/ai-betrayal-japan-artists/ 
 Tom Gerken “Chatbot ‘encouraged teen to kill parents over screen time limit.” BBC, 11 Dec, 
2024 https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cd605e48q1vo 
 


 10 Angela Yang “Lawsuit Claims Character.AI is responsible for teens suicide.” NBC News, 23 
Oct, 2024 https://www.nbcnews.com/tech/characterai-lawsuit-florida-teen-death-rcna176791 
 Maggie Harrison Dupre “Character.AI Is Hosting Pedophile Chatbots That Groom Users who 
say They’re Underage” Futurism, 13 Nov, 2024 https://futurism.com/character-ai-pedophile-
chatbots 
 
Anderson Cooper “Schools face a new threat: “nudify” sites that use AI to create realistic, 
revealing images of classmates.” 15 Dec , 2024 https://www.cbsnews.com/news/schools-face-
new-threat-nudify-sites -use-ai-create-realistic-revealing-images-60-minutes-transcript/ 
 
Dana Wagner “CES 2025 Day Two: Human-looking robots” Uploaded by News 3 Las Vegas, 8 
Jan, 2025 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IHVno0hGX5M 
 Emanuel Maiberg “Chinese AI Video Generators Unleash a Flood of New Nonconsensual Porn.” 
404 Media 6 Mar, 2025 https://www.404media.co/chinese-ai-video-generators-unleash-a-flood-
of-new-nonconsensual-porn-3/ 
 
Jennifer Elias “Google removes pledge to not use AI for weapons, surveillance” CNBC, 4 Feb, 
2025  https://www.cnbc.com/2025/02/04/google-removes-pledge-to-not-use-ai-for-weapons-
surveillance.html 
 
Wendy Lee, “Elon Musk’s feud with OpenAi CEO, Sam Altman, explained.” Los Angeles 
Times, 10 Mar. 2025 https://www.latimes.com/entertainment-arts/business/story/2025-03-
10/elon-musk-sam-altman-openai 
xai#:~:text=OpenAI's%20controversial%20Sora%20is%20finally,public%20with%20different%
20subscription%20tiers.&text=In%20court%20filings%2C%20Musk%20alleged,from%20the%
20board%20in%202018. 
 Trevor Jennewine, “Microsoft’s 13 Billion Investment in OpenAI May Be “Some of the Best 
Money Ever, Spent,” According to Certain Wall Street Analysts.” The Motley Fool, 10 Nov. 
2024 https://finance.yahoo.com/news/microsofts-13-billion-investment-openai-083000298.html 
 TOI World Desk, “What we know about Suchir Balaji Case so far.” Time of India, 14 Dec. 2024 
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/us/what-we-know-about-the-suchir-balaji-case-so-
far/articleshow/116322259.cms 
 
Ahamad Fuwad, “Family of OpenAI whistleblower Suchir Balaji demand FBI investigate 
death.” The Guardian, 28 Dec. 2024 https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2024/dec/28/openai-
whistleblower-suchir-balaji 
 
Cade Metz, “Former OpenAi Researcher Says Company Broke Copyright Law.” NY Times, 23 
Oct. 2024 https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/23/technology/openai-copyright-law.html 
 


 11 Noor Al-Sibai “OpenAI Pleads That It Cannot Make Money Without Using Copyright Materials 
For Free” Futurism, 8 Jan. 2024 https://futurism.com/the-byte/openai-copyrighted-material-
parliament 
 
The Tucker Carlson Show “Mother of Likely Murdered OpenAI Whistleblower Reveals All, 
Calls for Investigation of Sam Altman.” Uploaded by Tucker Carlson Show, 15 Jan, 2025 
 https://youtu.be/Kev_-HyuI9Y?feature=shared 
 
HT Trending Desk “This doesn’t seem like suicide’: Elon Musk backs Indian-origin Suchir 
Balaji’s mother in row over his death.” Hindustan Times, 30 Dec, 2024 
https://www.hindustantimes.com/trending/this-doesn-t-seem -like-a-suicide-elon-musk-backs-
mother-in-suchir-balaji-death-controversy-101735521431850.html 
 
Kelsey McCroskey “Photobucket Facing Lawsuit Over Plan to Sell 13 Billion User Photos to 
Third Parties.” ClassAction.org News Wire, 11 Dec  2024 
https://www.classaction.org/news/photobucket-facing-lawsuit-over-plan-to-sell -13-billion-user-
photos-to-third-parties 
Bev Turner “Ai to Decide who Lives and Dies.” Uploaded by GBNews , 10 Dec, 2024 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JM2scKWU4QY 
Bruce Schneier and Davi Ottenheimer “Robots Are Already Killing People.” The Atlantic, 6 
Sept 2023 https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2023/09/robot-safety-standards-
regulation-human-fatalities/675231/ 
 
 
 


