PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-23om -n2b9
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7991
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Louis Lee
General Comment
I and the m ajority of people I know have virtually no faith in the current adm inistration. We'd love to be proven wrong by seeing
com petency and effective results from  the agencies that claim  to serve us or, at the very least, serve businesses and consum ers.
The further proliferation of generative AI would com prom ise corporations; their own copyrighted assets would becom e increasingly
vulnerable to exploitation. Additionally, "AI" as a m arketing term  is being m et with less and less trust. Dogan Gursoy, the author of a study
into AI products (see: https://www.tandfonline.com /doi/full/10.1080/19368623.2024.2368040) said "In every single case, whenever we
m entioned 'AI' vs 'high tech', consum ers' purchase intention went down." Anecdotally, I and the m ajority of people I know find the
aggressive push of AI on tech platform s obnoxious and intrusive.
I strongly oppose the developm ent of this AI action plan. Generative AI is proven to be full of erroneous data. It gives you inform ation
that m akes you sound stupid at best and bring bodily harm  to you at worst. It will cripple your kid's ability to think critically and
com m unicate eloquently.
The white house website states "With the right governm ental policies, continued U.S. AI leadership will prom ote hum an flourishing,
econom ic com petitiveness, and national security." However, the current adm inistration could not possibly be m ore poorly equipped to
handle such aspirations without negative consequence. No one am ong Am erican leadership has dem onstrated a productive or even
rudim entary understanding of the technology in question. As previously stated, consum ers often avoid AI based products, there is no
econom ic com petitiveness to be gained. The idea of basing nat sec on AI is dangerously ludicrous.
AI-generated search results have suggested m aking pizza with glue, eating rocks for nutritional health confusing satire for genuine advice,
and m ixing chlorine bleach with white vinegar in laundry which creates toxic gases. What dom inance could we possibly derive in nat sec
from  system s that can't tell the difference between legitim ate m edical advice and jokes posted by Reddit users? I am  not convinced that
AI will becom e "sm art" enough to prevent this m isinform ation. Hum an error is clearly m ore preferable over clum sy software when it
com es to parsing com m unicable knowledge.
This adm inistration is wholly incapable of drafting AI policies with an intelligent and im partial eye. Trum p's lies and ineptitude are well-
docum ented, as are the lies and ineptitude of his owner, Elon Musk. If they are the pillars who decide how our data gets used, then God
help us all.


