PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-uw35-kjwx
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3461
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
While it is undeniable at this point in history that developm ent of AI technology will be ongoing and it is necessary that the United States of
Am erica m aintain its ability to com pete if not lead in this field with other world powers, it absolutely m ust be done with the protection of
the citizen in m ind. 
AI technology has proven its ability to assist in am azing ways in the fields of m edicine, technology, and even entertainm ent. However it can
easily be used by corporations and the governm ent to push the ordinary citizen out of positions that could be deem ed unnecessary or
redundant in the path of such advances without providing necessary alternatives for those who could be displaced from  jobs or even
careers. 
Intellectual properties m ust also be considered. Many AI farm ing sites and technology centers consider it priority to use anything that they
can find, regardless of consent, in order to train their AI m odels to becom es m ore powerful. Copyright protections and artistic licenses are
an im portant step to ensure that individual artists, authors, film m akers and creators do not find their creations taken by AI program s and
used without their consent to create derivative works that m ay blatantly take or even potentially steal from  them  with no legal recourse to
protect their rights as creators. If an individual agrees to allow their creations to be used to train AI or as part of a larger program , then
that is of course a transaction up to the artist to engage in. But artists, perform ers and creators m ust be given full copyright protections to
ensure that AI program s or users of the technology cannot sim ply take their work because it was posted onto the internet. See Italy's
views on the treatm ent of artists and AI. 
The final consideration is the protection of the individual's own appearance. AI technology has the capability of creating accurate
deepfakes of people, both visually and auditorily. These AI recreations of people have been used in creative parodies online, but there is
an underlying threat that they could be used to falsely incrim inate innocent people or even be used to m anipulate footage of people to
endorse ideals, m ovem ents, etc. that the individual does not endorse. These are concerns that have existed since the creation of video and
audio technology, but never has the threat of technology being used to weaponize a person's very appearance and sound been so
prevalent. It m ay be considered com m on sense that a person has the right to their own appearance and voice, but we are on the precipice
of a tim e when even that could com e under threat because of the dem and for advancing this new, powerful technology. 
In closing, AI has the potential to launch hum anity into a new age. But we m ust take steps now to ensure that this new age will be one that
enhances the life of the individual, not one that threatens the rights and securities of the people if AI and the people who program  it are
given unchecked power to do as they please with the technology. If we wait to try and work these protections out after the technology has
already been advanced to the point we wish it to be, then it will be far m ore difficult if not im possible to ensure the protection of the very
people those developing these program s desire to help.


