PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3b6t-lz4l
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9335
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
AI needs regulation, not free-reign to tram ple our intellectual property laws. If a com pany cannot exist without theft, it's a crim inal
enterprise, not a business, and should be treated as such. Please see attached files.
Attachments
White house letter


Re: National Science Foundation’ s Request for Information on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am an everyda y American who works in the entertainment industry with 
screenwriters and authors. I have worked hard for years to develop the skills and 
knowledge to build m y business, and have been lucky enough to make a decent 
living. 
The AI systems made by Big T ech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google 
threaten to destroy thousands the livelihood of writers and artists by destroying 
the very concept of intellectual property and violating the core economic 
principles of our econom y with their demand to create special carve outs in 
copyright law .
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work made by humans. Real, 
living humans. M y unique work, and the work of hundreds of thousands of other 
everyda y American creators was taken and fed into these AI systems without our 
consent or an y compensation. They ingest our work, reassemble it, and then sell it 
back to our clients – directly competing with us and cutting us out of the 
marketplace.
Now these Big T ech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions 
and loopholes to make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work 
legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces 
copyrighted work, it is somehow suddenly “ fair use” . 
They seem to believe that an ything and everything on the internet – regardless of 
who owns it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration 
does not allow them to rewrite the law in this wa y , it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law 
is to protect the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online 
will be stolen by Big T ech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyda y 
Americans create a new innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a 
new piece of music only to have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, wh y 
bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly make a living doing these 
things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create 
new copyright exemptions that allow Big T ech companies to exploit and steal 


from creators and everyda y Americans without permission, compensation, or 
transparency .
The AI Revolution is already a grift based on theft and greed. W e need 
regulations and transparency in this space now to protect the rights of the 
artists whose work is being stolen to feed these models. W e should not sacrifice 
the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it awa y to Big T ech 
by rewriting copyright law .
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


