PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-r4gp-iawo
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2909
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Katheri ne McCal lum 
General Comment
I am  a citizen trained in Electrical Engineering and have relevant expertise on how disastrous a technology AI is. This should be stopped.
AI is not the effective tool it is m arketed as by tech corporations. Am ericans are statedly tired of AI being forced onto them  and into their
lives. Microsoft and Google are both routinely needing to go out of their way to trick consum ers into using Copilot and Gem ini, going so
far as to com pletely restructure services to m ake it happen, and the m ain feedback they're still getting is "How do I turn this off?" By
OpenAI's own adm ission the only way AI can function is by stealing the labor, work, and livelihoods of others without com pensation. This
is a tool designed to leave Am ericans unem ployed and robbed of their own creations. It does not innovate, only im itate, so the m ore it is
used the stagnant it becom es. Its own m odel as a (adm ittedly very com plex) Markov Chain leaves it as m athem atically and
com putationally incapable of com ing up with a truly new idea. The closest it can possibly do is recognize a solution space that already
exists but was never explored, but a hum an had to create that system  in the first place. As such, its im plem entation can only ever be a
drain on productivity. A country that creates nothing new is destined to decay. It is tim e to acknowledge the Em peror has No Clothes. As
a technological professional, AI is snake oil, a parlor trick, an illusion that m erely looks real. All this is to say nothing of the environm ental
and logistical concerns attached to im plem enting AI, the staggering am ount of electricity and water needed.
OpenAI should not be given special access to any data nor im m unity from  copyright law. If it cannot use others' Intellectual Property
without com pensation for copyright, that is a flaw of their business m odel. Let them  fold. It is unacceptable to start a business with the
stated and deliberate intention of theft in violation of the law with the desire to change the law for special treatm ent in that theft.


