PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-3bvg-f259
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1393
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Data Transfer Initiative
General Comment
Attached please find the com m ents of the Data Transfer Initiative (DTI).
Attachments
DTI NSF AI FILING - 3-14-25


March 14, 2025 
Comments of the Data Transfer Initiative on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence 
(AI) Action Plan (FR Doc. 2025–02305) 
The Data Transfer Initiative (DTI) appreciates the opportunity to submit comments in response 
to NSF’s Request for Information (RFI) on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan. 
Introduction 
DTI is a U.S. 501(c)(4) nonprofit organization dedicated to empowering individuals by enabling 
simpler, faster, and more secure data transfers through data portability at scale. Born out of the 
Data Transfer Project (DTP), a collaborative open-source effort initiated in 2018 by a consortium 
of technology companies, DTI advances its mission through the design and implementation of 
open source data transfer tools and other innovations and investments to foster a healthy 
portability ecosystem, and by helping translate principle to practice and catalyzing greater user 
agency and empowerment.  
Since evolving into the independent DTI organization, our work has expanded to include projects 
focused on trust-building, mapping the portability landscape, collaborating with a broad set of 
stakeholders, and serving as an expert resource to policymakers and regulators globally.  
Data portability provides benefits to innovation, competition, user agency, and the broader 
economy. Over the years, DTI and its partners have enabled millions of users to transfer personal 
data such as photos and playlists across services. Today, we are working towards effective data 
models, frameworks, and tools for the specific context of personal data used in generative AI, to 
unlock a future where individuals, businesses, and institutions can seamlessly transfer their data 
between AI services. We see this expansion as an integral part of ensuring that U.S. businesses 
remain flexible and competitive, users maintain control over their information, and American AI 
development continues to flourish. 
Advancing AI Leadership Through Data Portability The United States is a leader in AI innovation, and ensuring continued leadership requires 
policies that promote competition, consumer choice, and secure technological advancement. The 
recent executive orders on AI emphasize the need to remove barriers that could slow innovation, 
while also protecting national security and economic interests. AI portability aligns with these 
objectives by ensuring that individuals and businesses can retain control of their AI-related data, 
fostering an open and competitive AI ecosystem. 


AI Portability: Fundamental for AI Users 
People should have control over the personal data that they provide to online services. Just as 
users expect that the photos they upload to a photo service or social media platform should be 
portable to other services, so too should they expect their activity within generative AI systems 
to be portable. This is especially true as AI systems become more personalized and deeply 
integrated into business and daily life. AI will generate significant social and economic value 
when people and businesses are empowered to choose the AI services that best suit their needs. 
The ability to transfer data to personalize and make the most of those services will maximize this 
value not only for individuals but for the ecosystem as a whole.  
But it is important to ensure the right scope for such data transfers. The focus for data portability 
is on the user’s experience, and transferring data specifically associated with the individual and 
their user of the service. Notably, this does not entail the sharing of internal or proprietary system 
details, such as model weights or training data, where they are not otherwise made available. 
This balance—ensuring the portability of user-centric data while protecting sensitive business 
data—reflects DTI’s core principles for data portability. 
DTI’s AI Work: Implementing Portability in a Practical, Secure Way 
DTI helps users seamlessly and securely transfer their personal data across online services. A 
major part of our work is to develop shared frameworks and tools to make this possible, both 
inside and outside the context of AI. 
To date, our AI-related efforts have centered on conversation histories with text-based generative 
AI systems—specifically, large language model (“LLM”) services. Recently, we partnered with 
the AI firm Inflection  to support their efforts to make user conversation histories available 
through a well-structured, reusable data model. While many companies already offer users the 
ability to download their data (including conversation history), this functionality is not as 
effective as structured AI data portability, as it lacks consistency and alignment in both scope and 
format. The ability to download user conversations on an ad hoc basis can be used by separate 
generative AI systems for broad purpose personalization—but they have limited value. True data 
portability can unlock even greater value—which is why we are committed to making portability 
tools and frameworks a reality. 
AI portability is crucial to addressing challenges in the enterprise context, as well. Businesses 
that build downstream from LLM APIs face the risk of vendor-lock in, or at the very least 
significant cost and friction when switching between LLM services, as a consequence of 
misaligned data formats and scopes. Coordination in an evolving market is tricky and standards 
processes are not always the right initial approach; however, as an independent nonprofit that 
helps actively coordinate and encourage shared data transfer tools, models, and frameworks    


across companies, we believe efforts like DTI’s can have a constructive role to play in 
facilitating alignment in a rapidly progressing industry. 
DTI’s Recommendations for an AI Action Plan for the Future 
As the NSF crafts its AI plan, DTI urges the agency to consider AI portability as an important 
component of its priority policy actions. AI is rapidly evolving, and policy decisions made today 
will shape the future of American leadership in the field. AI portability directly supports the 
goals of the recent AI executive orders because it: 
(1)Strengthens Market Competition: Encouraging interoperability and portability ensures
that businesses can compete fairly, without artificial barriers that restrict growth.
(2)Enhances User Control and Choice: Users should be able to switch between AI
services without losing access to their personal data.
(3)Maintains U.S. Leadership in AI: By promoting AI portability and setting global
benchmarks, the U.S. can reinforce its leadership in AI development and deployment.
DTI’s U.S. vision for data portability policy further builds on these ideas and may also serve as a 
valuable reference in shaping the AI action plan.  
Without effective portability, businesses and consumers alike risk being locked into closed 
systems that limit their choices and slow innovation. A competitive AI marketplace—one that 
allows for free data flow between services—ensures that American businesses and entrepreneurs 
can continue to innovate and grow. To make the AI marketplace effective and to support 
American investment, innovation, and competition, AI portability should focus on user and 
business data interconnections such as Application Programming Interfaces (APIs).  
Conclusion 
The U.S. must retain its leadership position for AI development, and ensuring secure, adaptable 
AI portability is a key part of that strategy. DTI looks forward to working with policymakers, 
industry leaders, and researchers to develop AI portability solutions that support innovation, 
economic growth, and consumer empowerment, while keeping American AI leadership secure, 
competitive, and forward-thinking. Sincerely, 
Delara Derakhshani, Director of Policy and Partnerships  
Chris Riley, Executive Director 


