PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 13, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 87-t02m -tfz6
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1224
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Ian Mi nor 
General Comment
As a software engineer closely following the trajectory of AI hype on m y industry, I was frankly horrified to see the recent revokations of
regulations regarding AI developm ent. While certainly im pressive in tech dem os, the purely-probabilistic nature of AI m odels m akes them
deeply unreliable for reasoning or factual recall (see https://www.cjr.org/tow_center/how-chatgpt-m isrepresents-publisher-content.php for
one such exam ple).
So then, what are these AI system s good for? At best, they're usable for two things. The first is unaccountable rubber-stam ping, a
m easure that m akes it m uch harder to hold corporate or governm ent leaders accountable for their actions and represents a m ajor
backslide in legal protections for our citizens. The other, of course, is plagairism  laundering, which allows large corporations to steal the
labor of hard-working Am erican artists and sell off reconstructed sim iles. This isn't an exaggeration, either, as rote m em orization of training
data is already a com m only-cited concern with generative AI. What com panies like OpenAI seek isn't to innovate - it's to ravage the
landscape of Am erican intellectual property to m ake a quick buck.
Additionally, the recent stum bles in Am erican AI developm ent have far less to do with regulation and far m ore to do with m ism anagem ent,
given the venture-capitalist obsession with dum ping ever-increasing sum s of m oney into m aking bigger m odels with m inor bells and
whistles attached. Rem em ber, DeepSeek ran circles around these com panies sim ply by focusing on efficiency - all while being based in
China, a country with significant regulations and restrictions on AI.
I am  deeply disappointed to see an adm inistration once fam ed for "draining the swam p" continue to sink deeper and deeper into corrupt
backroom  dealings with corporate oligarchs. I hope that the adm inistration will reconsider their approach and reinstate m uch-needed
protections for the sm all business owners and creatives that m ake our country great.


