PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2bhj-bt8b
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8171
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Samuel Haines 
General Comment
Hello, 
My nam e is Sam , I like I im agine m any others am  here to advise against the use of training AI on copyrighted work. The place for artificial
intelligence is not in the realm  of m edia or literature or art. Creativity has been a staple of hum ans since our conception from  cave
paintings, to early texts, the great works of the renaissance and literature like Shakespeare, fantastic m usic by great m inds, Beethoven,
Mozart, Bach. Art from  Da vinci, to Van Gogh, to Picasso, to m ovies and shows that have been able to reach across the globe. Creativity
has been som ething that has been cherished and used throughout hum an history to expand our horizon, technology.
But if we allow AI to train on stolen works and pum p out m aterial that is only slightly better than what it is capable of hum anity will take a
step back and surrender our creativity. AI has no em otion, no soul, no want for what it is m aking, its just trying to fulfill a prom pt, and
using existing work in a poor way to try to achieve it. It m ay follow a protocol to achieve an idea or im age, but it isnt creative. It's lazy, it
unim aginative. If we lean into using AI we will be sacrificing creativity in so m any fields of work, and destroying the entire history of our
species and centuries of growth, we will introducing som ething that is robing creativity from  so m any and people would use to discredit the
work of so m any, to cut corners, to try and take the easy route. But people have never taken the easy route, it has always been about
hard work and creativity. Don't Destroy the foundation of our entire history and species 
Thank you for your consideration
Sam  Haines


