PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-u46v-u1cq
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1734
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Kelly McKernan  
General Comment
I am  a professional fine artist and illustrator and have m aintained m y career for the last 15 years by developing a distinct style and
consistently producing high caliber work. While uploading hundreds of artworks to the internet via m y website, social m edia platform s,
and portfolio sites, I shared this work freely in order to build a sustaining audience as an independent artist. My aim  was to connect with
m y potential audience, who would, in turn, support m y artwork. I’ve eked a living since 2012 when I was able to go full-tim e with m y art
career. In those years since, I’ve garnered hundreds of thousands of followers, built a successful career, and was able to support m yself
and m y daughter alone on sales of m y paintings, com m issions, freelance illustration gigs, and teaching. My ability to capitalize on m y own
artwork was key, m aking the sole decisions for how m y art m ight be licensed or used m eant I controlled m y own m arket. In 2022, I
learned that over 50 of m y paintings, which I freely shared online, had been scraped into the LAION 5B database. Those artworks were
unwittingly used as training data without m y consent, without any offer of com pensation, and without credit. I’ve also discovered that m y
nam e, Kelly McKernan, was encouraged as a style prom pt, so that users of this software could em ulate m y style, som ething that could
only be done by m y artwork having been trained upon. I’ve observed m y nam e used, again without m y consent, over 12,000 tim es on
Midjourney alone. These synthetic im ages, drawing data from  m y artwork, are ghosts of the artwork I’ve poured m y soul into for over 15
years. To be utterly frank, I was horrified by this. The im plications, I feared, were vast. Soon, AI im ages with m y nam e are replacing m y
own authentic artwork in im age searches. The life-sustaining gigs - a book cover for a self publishing author, licensed artwork for album
art for a sm all m usician, com m issioned artwork - have dried up in the span of a year since this technology has allowed the proliferation of
synthetic im ages to com pete with m e in m y own field. I can no longer pay m y rent or support m yself and m y child on m y career as an
illustrator, as I feared m ay be m y fate. I joined Karla Ortiz and Sarah Anderson in a class action lawsuit against Stability AI, Deviant Art,
and Midjourney as I felt violated and stripped of m y agency to have a say in how m y art is used. I cannot believe that m y nam e and m y art
can be used to support a 48 billion dollar industry while I have never given m y perm ission for m y work to be used in this way and I don’t
see a single cent. I am  deeply, deeply concerned for the future of m y profession. Not only are m y peers facing the sam e dilem m a of
com peting with knock-offs of their own artwork, but we’re watching our jobs dry up as com panies m ove to AI to save m oney. Why
would any one of us continue to create and share our art for it to be scraped and used as training data against our will AND then used to
essentially replace us? Where is the incentive to continue creating and contributing to the creative culture? Is it not the point of copyright to
provide agency to the creator to control how their work is used, and be com pensated for it? We recognize that the quality of the training
data correlates to the quality of the output, and these products wouldn’t be as successful as they are without the nam es and artwork of
living, working artists today. This creative class m ust be protected from  these unethical practices, or I fear hum an innovation will suffer in
the nam e of generative AI. This sum m er - after m any hopeless m onths of despair where I couldn’t paint, I couldn’t even sketch - I
accepted a job as an adjunct professor of illustration as a nearby art college. I did this because I can’t sustain m yself and m y daughter on
m y art alone anym ore, but a secondary reason is one that’s given m e purpose when I’ve needed it m ost in the wake of this career-killing
developm ent: I worry for the next generation of artists. When I started art school alm ost 20 years ago, I dream ed of the career I ultim ately
built and sustained for over a decade. My current students worry that generative AI will replace them  and their creative voices. What is
the point of becom ing an artist when our work will only be cannibalized and used against us? I don’t know if I’ll have a career left if
nothing is done and if we don’t win our lawsuit, I m ay give it up entirely. USCO, you are in a position to protect a creative class full of
people just like m e, who have worked their entire lives on their craft, found a way to m ake a living from  it and support their fam ilies, and
continue to innovate, inspire, and help hum anity thrive and forge ahead. I want to be able to tell m y freshm an drawing students that there
will still be a viable career path for them  when they graduate, that one day, they can join a legacy of artists who have enjoyed generations
of purposeful and fulfilling careers.


Attachments
IMG_1131
IMG_1132
IMG_1133


