PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3lzr-13sc
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9290
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Timothy Mi ller 
General Comment
Per the requirem ents of the RFI response I am  stating the following: 
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.
I have deep and abiding concerns over the executive order and subsequent directives regarding the Developm ent of an Artificial
Intelligence Action Plan.
Section 2 of the executive order, "Rem oving Barriers to Am erican Leadership in Artificial Intelligence," stipulates the following: "It is the
policy of the United States to sustain and enhance Am erica’s global AI dom inance in order to prom ote hum an flourishing, econom ic
com petitiveness, and national security." However, the deploym ent I've seen of current AI technologies, particularly what's known as
"generative artificial intelligence" (alternatively, "generative AI") seem s antithetical to prom oting "hum an flourishing" in any form .
The "training" of generative AI m odels requires the m assed scraping and analysis of hum an-created works, particularly writing and visual
art. To date, AI com panies have point-blank refused to pay anyone who wrote anything that was used for AI training, instead trying to
defend their m assed theft as "fair use."
Generative AI system s have also required huge expenditures of energy and water, im posing new strains on Am erican electrical grids and
water system s. Further, the highest-profile attem pts to deploy generative AI at scale have posed a direct threat to hum an em ploym ent,
denying people the ability to earn a living on their own term s.
AI developers m ust be required to ask perm ission to include people’s work in the developm ent of their m odels. Creators should not have
to opt out; they should be invited to opt in, with suitable com pensation.
Autom ated data collection (also known as scraping) m ust be required to respect requests to not collect data from  websites that post such
requests.
Any data collected by any AI developer m ust be anonym ized and encrypted while stored, to protect the creators’ privacy.
AI developers should be charged a surcharge for the electricity and cooling water consum ed, along with a charge for the added pollution
from  the electricity generation. They should be required to follow all environm ental requirem ents for construction and operation of data
centers.
Last but not least, AI m odels should be treated as potential dual-use technologies and subject to export control (EC) laws and
international traffic in arm s regulations (ITAR) and thus, review by the Departm ent of Com m erce and Departm ent of Defense.
While I rem ain an AI skeptic, I acknowledge that artificial intelligence m ay reach a point where it can indeed be used for the betterm ent of
hum anity. In the present, though, I hold that AI m ust be developed in form s which respects and upholds the dignity of hum ans in all walks
of life, and that where AI developm ent would run counter to the well-being of any hum an, hum an rights and dignity m ust be given priority
over corporate interests.


