PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3v6z-9dtq
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9488
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Kevin Rivera 
General Comment
From :
Kevin Rivera
Freelance Artist
Ham ilton, NJ
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am  an everyday Am erican who is working towards being a sm all visual designer serving clients in the entertainm ent industry. I have
worked hard for years to hone m y craft, building up the skills and knowledge to build m y foundations. However, recent disruptive changes
had caused a rift in not only m y life but in the creative field in general. 
The AI system s m ade by Big Tech com panies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy thousands of Am erican sm all
businesses like m ine with their recent dem and to create special carve outs in copyright law.
Prom pt and generative AI system s can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. My unique work, and the work of
hundreds of thousands of other everyday Am erican creators was taken and fed into these AI system s without our consent or any
com pensation. They ingest our work, reassem ble it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly com peting with us and cutting us off the
m arketplace.
Now these Big Tech com panies are asking this adm inistration to create exceptions and loopholes to m ake this practice of stealing
Am erican creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a m achine ingests and regurgitates copyrighted work, it
is som ehow suddenly “fair use”. 
Perhaps som eone can resend m e the m em o, as I do not recall giving anyone m y perm ission or consent to use m y work in such a m anner.
Who are they to call m y work theirs? 
They seem  to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim
that if this adm inistration does not allow them  to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle Am erican innovation.
Who crowned them  lords of the land and declare their word law above others?
The purpose of Am erican copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the Am erican people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big Tech giants, who will truly own
the work? What will be the fine line of theirs and ours? If everyday Am ericans create a new innovative piece of com puter code, a new
visual design, or a new piece of m usic only to have it im m ediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place?
How will we possibly m ake a living doing these things? Our work, our value taken from  us is theft.


Want to actually protect Am erican innovation? Protect Am erican creators. Do not create new copyright exem ptions that allow Big Tech
com panies to exploit and steal from  creators and everyday Am ericans without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency.
While I personally believe in outlawing generative and prom pt AI, perhaps the adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving
away creator content to Big Tech com panies, but rather on ensuring a fair m arketplace with com petition:
First, the governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, so that we can decide when and where
our work is used by AI system s.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is
preserved. Our work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just
Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their
training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
It is not fear of these technologies in itself that concern m e but rather how quick we are to sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of
thousands of Am ericans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to com m ent on these im portant issues.


