PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3p9d-z8sw
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9572
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Melissa Wang
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Com m ent on AI


March 15, 2025 
From: 
Melissa Wang  
Graduate Student 
Re: Nationa l Science Foundatio n’s Request for Information on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
My name is Melissa, an d I am a history graduate student who grew up i n a tech family – my 
parents work on AI at big companies like Microsof t and Meta, and I have a ves ted interest 
and understanding of AI technolog y. I ask that the governm ent continues to uphold 
copyright law and not give into technocratic demands to subsume creativ e and human 
work into generic machine learning content. Alr eady in the universit y, we see countless 
issues with student plagiarism and sloppy intellectu al work. The domino effect of 
carveouts for AI companies would be catastrophic for education, the communal and 
rigorous practice of citation, and our intellectual future. I am also a visual artist, and the 
idea of AI being able t o train on my work and claim it as their own is heartbreaking. I 
understa nd the use of AI as a tool in industry, but cannot perceive any benefits t o big 
companies like OpenAI shameless ly stealing outside of their purview an d without any 
restrictions on their data sets.  
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google 
threaten to destroy jobs , education, and relational intellectual practice with their 
recent demand to create special carve outs in copyright law. 
AI systems can only be produced by first training o n work made b y people. My unique work, 
and the work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators was taken and 
fed into these AI systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest our work, 
reassemble it, and then sell it back to our clients – direct ly competing wit h us.  


 
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal 
precedent. They are suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted w ork, 
it is somehow suddenly “fair use”.   
 
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns 
it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow 
them to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.  
 
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to 
protect the incentive to create and innovate.   
 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be 
stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create 
a new innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new pi ece of music only 
to have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first 
place? How will we possibly make a living doing these things?  
 
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new 
copyright exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators 
and everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.  
 
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big 
Tech companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:  
 
 
• First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give 
effective consent, so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI 
systems.  


 
 
• Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so 
that the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has 
immense economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the 
original creators, not just Big Tech.  
 
 
• Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, 
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what 
content is AI generated.  
 
I am not anti -technology or anti -AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these 
AI systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the 
hard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to B ig Tech by rewriting 
copyright law.  
 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.  
 


