PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-sj48-q6gc
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1720
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Victor Tang  
Email: 
General Comment
I work in Big Tech as a software engineer and have spearheaded efforts to build AI products and features, as well as test for potential
abusive use of generative AI (text and im age generation)
The following is m y personal opinion, separate from  those of m y em ployer.
In m y personal tim e I am  greatly involved in volunteering translation work from  Japanese into English of various m edia, be it snippets of
text, web com ics, audio and live broadcasts, etc. I write this not only for m e and the work that I've done, but also for the artists and other
hobby creators I frequently interact with in m y free tim e. 
Generative AI has consistently been seen as a threat by artists and creators alike ever since its rise at the end of 2022. You can see this in
the backlash Adobe Inc. received when the com pany hinted at changing their Term s of Use for their products (Photoshop, etc.), as well
as som e artists' m igration away from  X (form erly Twitter) 
when the com pany assum ed sim ilar rights over the creative work posted by their users.
People clearly value in their work even if they seem  to post it free for all to view on the Internet. I've observed that just because a work is
free to view doesn't necessarily m ean the creator perm its attribution-free, royalty-free use of their work. For exam ple, on the artwork
sharing website "Pixiv" (sim ilar to DeviantArt), artwork is generally free to view and download, but som e are specially categorized by tags
such as "フリー素材 " (Japanese for 'free m aterial') to clearly tell users what artwork can be used as free m aterial. I've also seen this pattern
applied for other intellectual property such as m usic and sound effects. Som e users will write clearly that their work can be used as free
m aterial, whereas the vast m ajority do not.
Negative opinion from  artists over generative AI m akes it hard to use for serious com m ercial work. Enterprises caught using it are
accused of being lazy or too m iserly to invest in creative staff, and m ovem ents are m ade to sham e & boycott such enterprises, hurting
business. 
There won't be a confident m arket for AI products as long as this negative opinion persists, which I believe will be the case until we can
clearly prove if copyrighted works were used as m odel training data and fairly com pensate creators for that data. 
Good AI policy should im prove transparency into what data AI m odels were trained with, to better dispel rum ors they were m ade with
copyrighted data.
I am  aware there is a sense of urgency and geopolitical interest to be the leader in AI technology, but I believe the United States and allies
like Japan derive great power and cultural influence from  their creative industries, and we should not sacrifice the creative industry to
prom ote the developm ent of AI products.
It should be possible to build strong AI alongside a strong creative industry, perhaps future AI algorithm s m ight not even need the vast
am ounts of training data as today's m odels require. Our creative industries, like our m anufacturing and shipbuilding industries, are like a
m uscle. If people lose jobs or no longer work in that area, we lose that m uscle and m ay find it hard to build it back. That would m ean less
content to train with in the long-term .


On the Internet today we have m any well-known for-profit services that depend on and com pensate a network of creators to m aintain
service, it shouldn't be too different for AI products.
Youtube com pensates channels and creators for contributing highly-viewed content.
Ebay and Am azon com pensates sellers for selling their products on their m arketplace.
I hope this writing is useful in guiding AI policy in this and future adm inistrations.
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.


