PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-37nk-klcm
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8908
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Christopher Roberts
Em ail:  
General Comment
If private sector AI innovations were "ham pered" by regulations preventing them  from  utilizing Am erican-produced, copy-protected
content in their training, then these innovations are worthless, and cannot lead to a "brighter future for all Am ericans"; rather they only hurt
the Am erican workforce by their theft and redistribution of said IP. "AI superiority" m eans nothing if its net effect on our nation is harm .
(And the power and resource requirem ents of generative AI already do m assive harm  to our country in the form  of energy waste, m aterial
/ e-waste, consum ption of potable water, and noise pollution from  data centers.)
These so-called "AI" have no—and cannot have any—true understanding, and they produce erroneous results for an egregious
percentage of their output. Relying on them  for key portions of our national infrastructure such as defense and security, governance, or
education is to invite disaster. Worse still (and as the cynic in m e suspects is rather the point), it would be disaster without any
accountability.
Perhaps there is a future in which AI has som e place, and it should continue to be developed in research facilities. But if we im plem ent it
as it is now, and as itlooks to be for the foreseeable future, we will only be harm ing the Am erican people, the Am erican econom y, or the
security of our Nation.
I urge nothing but extrem e skepticism  towards im plem entation until such a tim e as the technology has been proven to produce worthwhile
(not m erely "good enough") results, and can do so without theft from  our citizens and without harm  to our ecology and econom y.
Thank you.


