PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0dr4-126k
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6559
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Chris Arnold
General Comment
I'm  a com puter scientist with experience in artificial intelligence and let m e im press the im portance of this: OpenAI does not need a free
pass to illegally exploit copyrighted m aterial and they absolutely do not need any taxpayer m oney. A m arket for LLM AIs has not
em erged despite the several years of hype and the m odels are poisoned with their own outputs. They pose a significant risk to the quality
of available inform ation which is already apparent to anyone who has attem pted online research, replace hum an jobs with incom petent
sycophants that regularly fabricate falsehoods, and are a critical clim ate risk in their waste of resources. 
Am erica's AI efforts should be directed to m edical technology and large dataset analysis tools, which is what AI is best suited for. LLMs
can not and will not fulfill the pipe dream  of a generalized artificial intelligence, the definition thereof being difficult to pin down and subject
to goalpost m oving to im press corporate boards. Despite the huge effort in developing them , LLMs have thus far not em erged as anything
m ore than expensive toys, one that we cannot afford to support when they fundam entally do not work.
OpenAI in particular has been a significant eyesore in AI developm ent and m ore m oney and m ore access to copyrighted m aterial will not
im prove their perform ance when m ore trim , m ore efficient startups with worse hardware have been outperform ing them . Due to the
erosion of their board several tim es, financial difficulties, and poor public person, their business partnerships with leading technology
com panies like Microsoft has been dissolving. The only sensible strategy is to turn to the old Am erican tradition of encouraging
com petition. If Chinese data scientists can do better for cheaper, or at least rival certain aspects of the perform ance with com paratively
infinitesim al resources, why can't we?


