PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-yyvu-1k5g
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5420
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Zachary Lively 
General Comment
Hello, m y nam e is Zachary Lively. I live in Georgia, and I believe that AI Generated content is a threat to not only m e and m y livelihood,
but to the future of all work in art and engineering.
I am  a sm all visual design artist. I serve clients in the entertainm ent industry. I have worked hard for years to develop the skills and
knowledge to build m y business, and have been lucky enough to m ake a decent living – until recently.
The AI system s m ade by Big Tech com panies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy thousands of Am ericans like m e
with their dem and to create special exceptions in copyright law.
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. My work, and the work of m illions of other Am erican
creators is being taken and fed into these AI system s without our consent or any com pensation. They ingest our work, reassem ble it, and
then sell it back to our clients – directly com peting with us and cutting us out of the m arketplace that we built.
Now, these Big Tech com panies are asking this adm inistration to create exceptions to m ake this practice of stealing Am erican creators’
copyrighted work legal. They are suggesting that if a m achine reproduces copyrighted work, it is som ehow suddenly “fair use”. 
They seem  to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim
that if this adm inistration does not allow them  to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle Am erican innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of Am erican copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the Am erican people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the
incentive to create? If everyday Am ericans create a new innovative piece of com puter code, a new visual design, or a new piece of m usic
only to have it im m ediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly m ake a living
doing these things?


