PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-tpf1-yb3e
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3282
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Skyler Hoff 
General Comment
If the training of com petitive generative AI requires the rem oval of copyright protections for artists, it is not worth it. Generative AI m odels
are derived from  hum an work, but also com pete with the products of hum an work. Hum an artists cannot out-produce AI, but AI depends
on hum an input. If Am erica wants to be an AI powerhouse, it should be prom oting its own independent artists through art grants.
Moreover, if AI training is allowed on copyrighted im ages, how do AI com panies propose to stop people from  creating AI im ages from
those works? I have m odels on m y com puter right now that can reproduce copywritten works and tradem arked characters, so this isn't
som e far-off hypothetical, it's som ething I could do right now. If it's fine for OpenAI to train a m odel via infringem ent, surely it can't be
wrong for m e to USE a m odel trained via infringem ent, for instance, to m ake art of Mickey Mouse in an intim ate kiss with Captain
Am erica. I'm  just using the product of (what we're assum ing is) legal AI training, right?
Additionally, it would be entirely possible for these AI com panies to pay to curate datasets. Not only are curated datasets better for
specific AI developm ent and innovation--as "generalist" m odels include a large proportion of junk in their training sets, due to their wide-
ranging nature--but this would create jobs for Am ericans, who would either be curating the dataset or contributing their copyrighted
works. If the USA wants to be dom inant in the field of generative AI, surely its citizens should m aterially benefit from  that dom inance, and
not just the owners of AI corporations.
Recent events have shown that while generative AI can be useful, the sort of wide-ranging disregard for quality training data should not be
encouraged. AI should be built with curated datasets for specific purposes, not plagiarized datasets for vague prom ises of things it'll be
able to do in the future.


