PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-tzax-m o09
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3326
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I am  writing to express a firm  rejection of the stated goals of this project. Generative AI, as it is now, operates on theft of IP, and
providing special privileges to industry interests is flatly unacceptable. The various Generative AI initiatives have all proven unprofitable
and require trem endous resources. It is, in blunt term s, a series of scam s targeting the corporate interest in downsizing that cannot deliver,
and will cost hundreds their livelihoods as it sucks all value out of the tech sector and beyond. 
The reason Gen AI has run up against these "guidelines" tim e and again is because it is, in now way, valuable. Not to the US, not to its
industries, and not even to its com petitors. All this initiative will do is devalue art and creative endeavors in both professional and arm ature
contexts. Supposing the outputs of Gen AI are so valuable to bend or nullify the law sight unseen, and they are not, then so too are the
inputs: the art and writing of hard-working Am ericans and our international neighbors. They are so desperate to feed on the work of
talented individuals they would dem and their perm anent devaluation, which will prove m ore dam aging then any value they will ever
produce.
Do not provide special protections or privileges to Generative AI initiatives. It is a scam , and as a scam  it will prom ise anything and
everything regardless of reality. It cannot help with industry growth or national security any m ore then a snake oil tonic. If Gen AI cannot
develop som ething of worth playing by the sam e rules as everybody else, then what good is it?
If we have reached the point that Gen AI dem ands a m agic wand to let them  do whatever they want in order to som ehow becom e
profitable, then it would appear that the m arket has already spoken loud and clear on its value. It isn't profitable, never will be, and the
kids gloves have to com e off at som e point. Quit playing around and m ove on.


