PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1zh7-fszy
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7905
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I am  an Am erican citizen who cares deeply about art and hum an expression. I create digital art as a hobby and know m any who's prim ary
incom e is to create art (of all different sorts). I stand opposed to generative AI as a whole and the com panies behind it, both Am erican
and foreign.
I believe that AI developm ent has gone far enough and allowing them  to ignore copyright is a m assive and m isguided overstep of power. I
do not believe this is a m atter of national security and I think this is a fabrication on behalf of com panies such as OpenAI to create national
fear in order to push their own ulterior m otives.
I believe the best thing we can do is put even m ore restrictions on generative AI products, not rem ove restrictions but allowing illegal
circum vention intellectual property. There is no doubt that artificial inelegance can be an invaluable tool such as in research, but the current
state of AI is overbearing and destructive of the carriers of m illions of Am erican citizens.
On top of being detrim ental to artists, it is destructive to the health of citizens as a whole. Generative AI is touted as som ething that could
thing and act for you and I think giving them  total control would be a terrible thing for the intelligence of our country (and frankly the
world) as a whole. Less and less people are creating things on their own, not learning why things work the way they do in tasks such as
writing, program m ing, research, painting, et cetera. I believe that if we continue to let this already growing problem  fester, no one will
know how to do anything. Hum ans will always push the industries forward, and those who opt to use AI are doing a disservice to
them selves to discover things for them self. Consider that m aybe who could have been the greatest scientists of our future were held back
by the tem ptation of AI.
In conclusion, I believe we should be restricting generative AI further rather than prom oting and giving it unlim ited access. I believe that is
not only harm ful to the jobs of Am erican artisans and researchers alike, but to the populous as a whole by m aking them  less willing to
m ake decisions and learn on their own. I believe that AI com panies are disingenuous of the im pact this would have and that they are
claim ing it's a case of "national security" to spread fear.


