PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-ydhl-dafl
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4985
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Michel le Matel  
General Comment
Most of what is com m only referred to as "AI" is sim ply the use of Large Language Models. These algorithm s do not involve intelligence
per se, but sim ply predict the m ost likely set of words that are found in connection with the keyword. We have seen m any exam ples of
incorrect inform ation being provided by "AI" in response to questions, and it would be foolish and dangerous to use these m odels to
provide assistance or to evaluate claim s (such as disability applications) as the science currently stands. It is also im m oral and a theft of
intellectual property that the AI com m unity has trained its m odels by scraping other people's words and im ages from  the internet. Couple
this with the huge power requirem ents involved in running these m odels, and the m assive governm ent subsidies, both direct (funding) and
indirect (requiring their use), and we run the risk of actual harm  to our institutions and our citizenry if we allow agencies to im plem ent AI
without clear guardrails. At a m inim um , any agency/departm ent/office that proposes to use AI should be required to m aintain full, pre-
2025 levels of em ploym ent and have every AI response and recom m endation for action fall under hum an review for a period of no less
than 2 years. Prior to the im plem entation of AI, a m etric for success/failure should be established, indicating the level of AI
m ischaracterizations/failures that will be deem ed acceptable. Finally, for any agency/departm ent/office that uses AI, there m ust be a well-
publicized non-AI route for appeal of decisions, with those appeals being heard in an expedited fashion.


