PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-xfp2-ktw9
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4397
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Kim  Pinkham
Address: United States, 
Em ail:  
General Comment
I oppose allowing AI com panies to use existing writing, art, m usic, code, or other hum an-m ade intellectual property for any reason
without the consent of the creator of the property. To allow that is state-sanctioned theft, and will cause legitim ate artists and writers and
other creatives to stop sharing their gifts, and will spur the creation of anti-theft technology that will be used to poison the data sets of AI
m odels and destroy them . This is already happening; tools to add coding to electronic writing and art already exist and have a devoted
following. Even without those poisonings, AI is a flawed tech that actively hallucinates data and blurs the line between truth and fantasy; it
has already killed people as a result (see AI-written m ushroom  collecting guides.) The current pursuit of AI is aim ed solely at replacing
hum an workers with 'robots' so that m ulti-billion-dollar corporations can shave a percentage point off their bottom  line by reducing their
work force, driving a race to the bottom  for hum an workers everywhere. IF AI com panies want to pay creators for their work and obtain
consent for their use, fine. If they m isuse a creators content they should be subject to litigation, just like any ownership dispute in the
physical world or copyright dispute in publishing. 
AI is not the place the USA should be investing its energy and innovation in the first place; that should be directed 100% toward m itigating
the disastrous and accelerating effects of clim ate change. Instead, AI exacerbates that problem  by consum ing obscene am ounts of
electricity and water in order to replace hum an workers with inept, hallucinating, glorified auto-correct program s. The USA can do so
m uch better, and if AI com panies want to continue to work on their products despite its obvious flaws and lack of com pelling use cases, it
should have to assum e all the costs of that choice and its fallout.


