PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-11m b-a7vs
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7393
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Andrew Ford
Address: 
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Public com m ent GenAI


From: 
Andrew Ford 
Freelance Artist 
Re: Nationa l Science Foundatio n’s Request for Information on the Development of an 
Artificia l Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
I am an everyday comm on Americ an who o wns a sm all artis t freelance business which 
serves clients in the entertainm ent industr y. I have worked har d for years to dev elop the 
skills and knowledge t o build m y business, and have bee n lucky enoug h to make a decent 
living and suppor t my fam ily – until recentl y. 
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google 
threate n to destroy thousands of Americ an small bus inesses like mine with their 
recent demand to create special carve outs in copyright law . 
AI systems can only be produced b y first training on work made b y people. My unique work, 
and the work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday creators from Americ a and many 
other countries around the world was taken an d fed int o these AI systems without our 
consent or any com pensation. They inges t our work, reassemble it, and then sell it back to 
our clie nts – directly com peting with us and cutting us ou t of the marketplace. 
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal 
precedent. They are suggesting that if a machine ingests a nd reproduces cop yrighted work, 
it is somehow suddenly “fair use”.  
The y seem to believe tha t anything and everything on the int ernet – regardless of who owns 
it – s hould be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administratio n does not allow 
them to rewrite t he law in this way, it will stif le Americ an innovation. 


Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to 
protect the incentive to create and innovate.   
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be 
stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create 
a new innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only 
to have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first 
place? How will we possibly make a living doing these things?  
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new 
copyright exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators 
and everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.  
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big 
Tech companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:  
•First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give
effective consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI
systems.
•Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so
that the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has
immense economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the
original creators, not just Big Tech.
•Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what
content is AI generated.


I am not anti -technology or anti -AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these 
AI systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the 
hard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting 
copyright law.  
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.  


