PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0t2g-hn9p
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6874
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
As an artist who has watched the job m arkets for various facets of creative industries shrink dram atically over m any years even before
GenAI com panies swooped in and stole the output of our labor and skills for the purpose of churning out garbage without consent or
com pensation, I and thousands of others cannot abide the US governm ent or any entity granting carte blanche use of such a system .
On its own, the technology involved is not inherently evil, but what these corporations are trying to get away with is destructive beyond
words to laborers who are already at their lim its fighting for respect and com pensation and jobs, and have been for a long tim e. The
creators whose works have been and continue to be stolen by this m achine are scraping by when they should be thriving and driving new
ideas forward, som ething a m achine that can only hallucinate things it has in its dataset cannot do. It cannot understand the choices it
m akes and m ake them  with purpose, but a hum an artist, a hum an m usician, and a hum an program m er can. It does not stream line any
creative process, it creates only busywork of cleaning up its m esses.
If you starve out all the hum an creators, you will gain no innovation, no creativity. We should instead be putting in place stronger
protections FOR them , but this is the OPPOSITE of that. This will m ake us the country of cheap corporate slop, and the longer that goes
on the worse it will be. We already look like villains to m ost of the rest of the world, this would just be another step in that direction.


