PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 12, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 86-c3uy-5hkp
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1163
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I am  one out of m any other victim s in this country who have been illegally im planted, with an illegal brain stim ulation/com m unication chip. I
have only experienced 24 years of life and out of m y 24 years, I have never been a free Am erican do to Neurological technology. I'm  not
personally fam iliar with the tech just know everything I have experienced while being a victim . My norm al day in Am erica consists
everyday of being around people who know about the technology, som e also im planted that telepathically com m unicate with each
other,even m e. I have been stalked, HARRASSED, illegally m ade a celebrity, and all of m y private inform ation(including hom e address
and social security num ber) have been everyone's in this countries visual footage to see.I am  raped everyday (result of brain stim ulation),
or assaulted when I am  working, sexually abused 2 tim es in m edical establishm ents and just com pletely treat like som eone who doesn't
belong here. Because of all of this I have no way to survive and the city that I reside in witholds resources and services from  m e unless its
m ental health care. This technology literally enables any hum an in the world with the access to transm it to the im plants inside of m e, control
m y entire m ind. This includes m y actions, the words that com e out of m y m outh, m y pain, m y thoughts, m y cells, m y nerves, m y organs,
m y blood pressure, m y heart rate, m y breathing, m y brain, and whatever else the brain controls. I have lived 3 in a half years in this city
and each year the people who live here torture m e m ore and m ore everyday. At m y jobs, at the hotel room s I was living in, in all of m y
relationships, m y therapy,m y m edication effects,inhum ane living conditions, sabotage and so m uch m ore. With that being said technology
innovation is hard to im agine. I m ean I have been im planted since the beginning of the early 2000s.Im agining technology m ore enhanced
than hum ans m ind controlling other living things is scary. Unless you are practicing m easures that can counteract the technology. Like
neurological jam m ers, or even people who would know I detect illegal im plantation of the device. These devices are very tiny and leave
no scarring or even point of entry wound. If there are m ore victim s out there other than, 6 people outside of m e,in m y fam ily. They didn't
know, or they never knew they were ever im planted. This thing is one of the biggest problem s in Am erica, it's taking willpower,
consciousness, religion, since of reality, stealing your identity. And gives crim inals the easiest way to m urder by suicide, or even som eone
else. It's also the easiest way to have brought back slavery. I am  a slave in Am erica in the year 2025 and so is 6 m ore people I know for
sure today. Our lives are not our own.( But those 6 people have no idea)


