PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2nl9-nlw6
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8466
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
A lot of generative AI (m ainly AI system s the public has access to that can generate text, im ages and/or video) has been using copyrighted
m aterial without perm ission or consent from  the individuals or com panies that own the copyrighted m aterial. These big tech com panies can
take any form  of m edia from  the internet, feed it into the AI system  to study and create works using that m edia, tell the AI to m ake
som ething just like the m edia that they just put into it, then publish and earn a profit from  what the AI produced while the original creator
doesn't get any of the profit and never had any say or consent in the process they very likely didn't know was happening. They can take
m edia from  any site, regardless of said site's term s and conditions, and use their work to profit off of it.
The big tech com panies are very m uch aware of the legal issues this poses and know it's not going to end in their favor once the court
cases catch up. They're trying to find a way to continue to steal and use copywritten content for their AI system s, and Google and
OpenAI are trying to use the opportunity of this executive order to change the law and m ake their practice of stealing copywritten content
legal. There are m any negative effects this will cause.
1. This will cause a huge crash in artistic and creative econom ics, as anything m ade by anyone can be taken and fed into an AI to then
m ass produce m edia and products that replicate the stolen m edia and take a lot of the profits from  the original creator(s). This will cause
m any people to quit and m any com panies to go bankrupt overtim e, causing unem ploym ent to skyrocket and Am erica having to face all the
issues that'll bring.
2. Legal loopholes could easily develop, as if any m edia created by AI can be copywritten, any m edia could easily be m odified with very
few adjustm ents, and as long as whoever published it says it was created by AI, it gets copywritten. It doesn't even need to be created by
an AI. Som eone could take the source code of existing software, rem ove all the credits and logos of the people and groups that helped
create the software, claim  they m ade it all, and as long as they say it was produced by AI, they effectively stole and copywritten som ething
that's not theirs.
3. It's unlikely that any copywrite laws in favor for AI will be the sam e for every other country, especially the European Union. This could
cause chaos for m edia produced in a country where using it for AI is illegal, potential m ass segregation of billions of users not being able to
see content or go to websites hosted in another country.
Big Tech AI should not be able to use copywritten m aterial to use in their AI m odels, requiring explicit consent from  the copywritten
holder if they wish to use it to train the AI. And I do m ean explicit, nothing hidden behind huge long text boxes like the term s of service or
private policy and a m ajority of people don't read.


