PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 13, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 87-wv5e-4cj5
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1243
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Lorinda Tom ko  
General Comment
GenAI is not only a m assive drain on our already-tenuous power grid, it runs only by allowing copyright infringem ent and is still in such a
state as to m ake dangerous, obvious errors. AI data centers should not be approved in places where they would overburden existing
energy needs. Additionally, there is no good reason given to grant genAI com panies a sweeping exem ption from  data privacy laws or
copyright infringem ent; it has proven to have security weakness in handling private data, and by utilizing copyrighted works it steals from
the livelihoods of actual citizens in a variety of fields while polluting its own well of data. These protections are in place for a reason, and
there is no econom ic em ergency occurring (at least not related to AI innovation..) to justify m aking these exceptions now. 
GenAI, particularly LLMs, are being used in a slapdash way and without understanding of their actual function. This is not a system  that
can fact check itself. It will create and spread m isinform ation, as it already has. It's sim ply a program  that tries to give the m ost-expected
response in a gram m atically correct way. 
I am  strongly opposed to prioritizing AI data centers in energy usage or regulatory exem ptions, not only as a US citizen concerned about
the security of m y private data, but also as som eone who works with PHI at one job and as a creative visual artist in the other. GenAI
currently cannot even accurately do what its salespeople claim  it can. Residents in m y area are already alarm ed at the news com ing out
this year on potential failures of the power grid due to dem and. Recall the blockchain hype. Recall NFTs. Do we forget this quickly not to
throw necessary resources away? 
While I find som e form s of predictive AI to be an exciting tool in the m edical field, in other applications it needs to com e a long way
before it's worthwhile to prioritize over known return on value. 
Thank you for your consideration.


