PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-z8ti-3awa
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5652
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Foster Elmendorf  
General Comment
Rem oving the copyright guardrails for AI would be disastrous for Am ericans across all spectrum s. It would rem ove any individual's rights
to the ownership of the work they create as well as flooding the m arket with m assive am ounts of churned out content, m aking it harder
than ever for people to find content that appeals to them . Anyone could take an existing piece of m edia, be it a book, m ovie, or TV series,
and filter it through AI to release it far cheaper than it cost to produce originally. 
AI is overhyped by those who wish to use it for im m ediate profit, and when the technology eventually crashes, it will leave the bag holders
far poorer for it; if the US Governm ent invests in this, it will leave the tax payer and Am erican creatives in that position, having lost out on
our hard work and far poorer as a country for it.
When AI slop has no cultural appeal but is all Am erica is producing, people in both foreign and dom estic m arkets will look elsewhere for
their entertainm ent and art, leaving the US with even less influence globally than we have now.
AI's place in our society should be focused on m assive data handling and m athem atical grunt work; AI has a future in Am erica, but the
focus shouldn't be on copyrighted m aterial, it should be in academ ic research, data parsing, and m edical aid. Much good could be done in
those areas with the help of future AI m odels, and would actively im prove the health and well-being of the average Am erican.
“This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.”


