PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-uvhw-nqv2
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3458
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Rem oving the guard rails to keep AI in check will open up m illions of Am ericans to being stolen from  constantly, and the people of this
country will be unable to stop big corporations from  tram pling their rights in favor of profit. People who's livelihood is based on their ability
to freely create without worry of having their work used without perm ission will be in danger of financial ruin, because of having their
private personal work violated by the scan of an AI, before being copied and reproduced by som ething that costs Google, OpenAI, and
other com panies nothing while taking away the opportunities of the Am erican worker. Am ericans will be helpless to com pete, because
even at m inim um  wage and bellow it will be less expensive for com panies to ignore hiring, and use these AI. Giving them  the ability to be
exem pt from  all copyright will only em bolden this power further, and widen the net corporations have to suck away wages from
Am ericans, and violate their creative rights. The growth and expansion of AI's abilities to go alm ost com pletely unregulated and
unrestrained has no place in the future of this country, and will only lend itself to the quickened erosion of all protections in this country.
Corporations like Google will not stop at the ability to do what they want free from  the rules of what is and isn't ok to work with. They will
abuse this power, and it will be the average Am erican who pays when these com panies turn the tables and the actual creators are the one
being accused of stealing from  big business, and their ram pant uncontrolled AIs. The only reason there is the belief that AI is going to
revolutionize the Am erican way of life, is because these large corporations have forced the narrative. They want us to believe that they
"need" this freedom  from  restriction, because it will keep AI from  doing anything that will truly bring our nation into the future. But in
actuality, it is just furthered greed by corporations to rem ove regulations and restrictions, so that they can use anything they wish to gain a
profit, even if it's not their own work. Cutting out the worker and the m iddle m an, leaving only those at the top to gain all the benefits of
the creative process while wholesale dem oting individual creativity. We will not be incentivized to grow as a society, if a com puter can
steal everything, m im ic everything, m ake a cheap copy of the works of those who did try, and then teach people to accept it and be
satisfied by it. There is far too m uch dam age to be done to this country, and to Am erican rights, by letting big AI tech com panies have
their way at every turn. There m ust be restrictions and control of som e kind, to leave power in the hands of the Am erican people, and
Am erican creators, where it rightfully belongs. I do not believe AI holds a place in the future of the US, and our law m akers need to do
the right thing here, and tell com panies like Google and OpenAI no. They are absolutely in the wrong about "needing" to be free from
copyright restriction, and they cannot be allowed to steal from  hard working Am ericans like this.


