PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-ytus-whe8
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5307
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Ethan Fronk  
General Comment
My nam e is Ethan Fronk. I am  a high school sophom ore living in Texas.
This action is very disturbing to m e. I see the use of AI by m y peers to cheat on tests and cheat out of their responsibilities, harm ing their
education.
this bill will encourage the use of AI in places previously not used. More im portantly to m e, AI com panies having less restricted access to
data threatens the rights of Artists and Personalities online and in person. 
AI is a great tool for furthering society, but the breaking down of regulations does not m ean better, m ore advanced AI m odels, and I
believe this action will m ake AI m odels m ore harm ful to the public. 
The reason I believe this deregulation presents a danger is in the violation of persons’ privacy and property. 
If AI is allowed to train on copyrighted m aterial, I believe the copyright has been violated. If reproducing a copyrighted work for profit is
to be illegal, so should AI m odels using protected works to generate random  averages of the m aterial for their own profit. 
I believe this action plan will further the use of AI m odels by wrongdoers to harm  other people and public figures. Without further
regulation, AI can be used to lie about what an individual has said or done. I do not wish to grow up or live in a country that accepts this.
There m ust be protection against these things, and sim ply allowing AI to be used however it pleases; Will not facilitate a better, safer, and
healthier Am erica for her citizens and the world.
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.


