PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2lnk-8rm a
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8412
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
By “rem oving unnecessary burden” you are opening a can of worm s that you can not close. Those “burdens” exist to protect the people
who were the creators. 
Maybe they SHOULD carry the burden; isn’t that the price for training these AI m odels?
In addition, AI safety is a real concern you should be thinking about. I know m any people higher up don’t understand technology, but the
bottom  line is that we NEED lim itations otherwise things will get out of hand quickly. To be perfectly candid, we don’t fully understand
how AI currently works; we don’t understand its thought process or if it even fulfills the objective we are setting out for it. For m ore
inform ation, I highly suggest Robert Miles at https://youtube.com /@robertm ilesai?si=wTfBVFH2nJIuaSWE
Rem oving this feels sim ilar to rem oving regulations for m edicines; we have these regulations to protect people so that harm  isn’t done. It’s
the sam e here; but instead of protecting people, this plan m oves forward with trying prioritize hazardous developm ent.
This isn’t even m entioning how these AI’s are trained and the social, econom ic, and environm ental costs associated with this.
People should be able to decide how their works are being used; if they don’t want it to be used for AI, then they should be allowed to
say that it can’t be used for training. Just sharing it online doesn’t m ean they opt in for AI training. If it were, it would be like if you gave
your credit card inform ation to buy som ething online; does that give that website the right to use your credit card however they want? Of
course not! Being online shouldn’t be an autom atic opt in for allowing to work to be used however the viewer sees fit.
Of course, there is also the social cost. There is already an issue with false inform ation being faked by AI; issues like these should lead to
m ore regulation, not less regulation. If you have ever heard of the dead internet theory, then you should already know that this is already
an issue.
Of course, the environm ental im pacts are straightforward; they are just expensive in term s of energy and bandwidth. 
Finally, I just wanted to m ention the econom ic cost. The stated goal is to preserve Am erica’s AI dom inance, but will that really be the
outcom e? Let’s not kid ourselves; even if the com panies got all the resources they wanted, will that truly help the US? The AI probably
won’t be used to help grow the country, but rather to get profit for the com pany. Note that the com pany is NOT the US; com panies
serve to grow them selves, without regard to how they hurt or harm  those around them  (especially if they think they can m ake a profit).
This is not helping the US econom y; it is giving certain com panies m ore power to exploit others around them . If they have the opportunity
to m ake m ore m oney elsewhere, out of the US, then they will. Don’t delude yourselves into thinking that helping these private com panies
will help the “US Dom inance”, because it won’t. Technology has never worked that way, especially if it is from  a com pany. 
In conclusion, this is a HORRIBLE idea, and you should probably consult actual experts.


