PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-hx15-m kf0
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1612
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Thom as Keefe
Em ail:  
General Comment
I am  writing to call for existing copyright laws to be enforced, and to insist that copyright laws m ust not be weakened for the use of so-
called "artificial intelligence" or "AI", as m any large corporations want.
Generative "AI", which is not actually intelligent at all, artificially or not, is a dangerous technology whose current use in the arts &
entertainm ent fields is largely unethical and im m oral. Its uses should be well regulated to protect people and their copyright. Generative
"AI" does not function at all without being fed vast am ounts of training data. This training data is com prised of countless works of art
created by real people, the vast m ajority of whom  DID NOT CONSENT to having their work used in the training data. Such people
were also not com pensated.
Big corporations like Google are dem anding that copyright law be weakened to allow them  and other large com panies to ignore the
copyrights of real people, so that the corporations can steal peoples im ages, writings, audio, m ovies, shows, gam es, & other form s of
m edia and use it as training data for generative "AI". These corporations falsely claim  that it is in the interest of national security that they
be given exem ptions to copyright law when it com es to "AI". It has nothing to do with national security, and everything to do with greed.
The corporations do not want to respect the copyrights of m illions of individuals. They do not want to have to ask for perm ission to use
peoples creations, or to be required to com pensate them  financially. Google and others want to be able to m ake a fortune off of other
peoples work without paying them  anything for it. This would am ount to the largest theft of peoples property in history.
The big corporations have already stolen the artwork of m illions of people over the last several years for use in the training data of their
"AI" m odels, and they are now facing lawsuits over it. They know that they've violated the law, and that eventually they will lose in court
and have to pay im m ense fines. They don't want to play by the rules though, and so now they are asking the governm ent to change the law
and bail them  out of court. This is disgusting and m ust not be allowed. It would cause irreversible dam age to countless people, m yself
included. Ironically, if corporations like Google succeed in having exem ptions carved out in copyright law for their "AI" usage, they
them selves will end up having their own corporate copyrights violated by both individuals and other rival corporations. All anyone will
need to do is claim  they are stealing Mickey Mouse from  Disney for "AI" training purposes, and they will be im m une from  lawsuits. It goes
both ways here.
I hereby m ake it known that I, as an artist, DO NOT consent to anything I create being used as training data by any form  of "AI", for any
reason. The copyrights that I own now and in the future, along with the copyrights held by other people and corporations now and in the
future, m ust be protected from  being abused and stolen for use in "AI".


