PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2g21-dvth
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8290
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
"AI" is a tool that strips us of what m akes us hum an. It lowers the capabilities of Am ericans, and it's continued developm ent will ruin any
chance of Am erica staying an innovator and leader in the world. Machine Learning m odels for things like cancer identification, facial
recognition, training robots, etc. these are fine. These are doing things that hum ans can't, or at least not in a reasonable am ount of tim e or
with as m uch accuracy. It's the chat bots and generators that the likes of Meta, Google, OpenAI, Apple, and X that are the issue. 
These artificial "intelligences" lack any actual intelligence, and therefor cannot discern when they are wrong. A recent study found that not
only are these m odels providing incorrect inform ation anywhere between 65-94% of the tim e, they are m ore wrong the m ore you pay,
and are m ore confident in that incorrect answer.
As for the im age generators, they fail to m atch up to hum an works, and so far there is no m odel that hasn't stolen from  artist who are
already struggling to survive off their works, and is taking away their livelihood. Only 10 years ago we were trying to sue children for
burning a CD with m illions in dam ages per case. Meanwhile these com panies get to steal from  literally everyone with no consequence?
This technology is already at its lim its for what it can do, and as m ore of this slop is released, it starts to poison itself. It's not sustainable,
and it's not som ething we should sacrifice our innovation, creativity, and intelligence as a country to pursue. It will only lead to the fall of
Am erica.


