PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-u4cy-e8db
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3351
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
It is easy to pretend, especially if one likes to listen to popular people who call them selves intelligent, that Large Language Models ("AI")
are to the m odern day what factory industrialization was two hundred years ago. And they do share a com m onality; the com plete
deskilling, atom ization, and im m iseration of artisans can be easily likened to the possible fates of artists, authors, engineers, m usicians, and
critical-thinking-enjoyers at large. But the industrial revolution lead to wealth, products, econom ic possibility—for all its hum an and
environm ental cost, it *gave* us som ething concrete. The investors behind LLM startups prom ise to do the sam e, to broaden the scope of
society beyond whatever could be previously im agined.
They are lying.
By their construction, LLMs can give us nothing hum ans already do—they m erely plagiarize, rem ix, and hallucinate a possible data point
between what it has already devoured. LLMs train on other LLMs, creaing feedback loops of inaccuracies all citing each others' lies as
proof. Prim arily, "AI" has enriched a group of wealthy few who speculate on the future of our society. By sm oothing over the prom ising
and com plicated technology of LLMs into a shiny project, these hucksters has created an underclass of im poverished m oderators
desperately steering the m odel away from  regurgitating racist lies, environm ental devastation while our planet tum bles toward irreversible
clim ate dam age, and a frustrated consum er adrift on a sea of shiny falsehoods m ade by no hum an hand which can ever be held to account.
There is no soul, no prom ise to AGI—m erely a sequence of snake oil billionaires so full of their own success they neglect the input of
intelligent and m easured critique. Use of LLMs has been dem onstrated to erode the critical thinking of its users—there is no prom ise of a
transform ative future here. There is only billions of dollars to be lost on wisps of dream s.
This technology—and its m any prom ises, am idst its woeful m odern im plem entations—is best left regulated and studied carefully, its great
power guarded behind hum an-first interface design, its m any possibilities kept as tools first and econom ically-destructive-pseudo-hum an-
replacem ents second.


