PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-6xpw-bqlg
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1782
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
AI Action Plan
Philosophy:
The pinnacle of AI function should be, that it will enhance m ankind's work, m aking our labor m ore effective not m aking it obsolete. This
should be its overall goal. 
And to give the average Am erican the tools, power, and inform ation enabling him  to learn, build, or invent anything he can im agine, this
will ignite a new renaissance where each individual has access to cutting edge info and instrum ents.
Ideas:
(Proposition 1) AI to function, has to m ake judgm ent and valuation calls based on what inform ation it decides to trust, the internal
valuation system  should be easily seen, posted in a sim ple to read form at. This inform ation is significant to understand where the AI m ay
be biased (e.g. Fakewebsite1.com  receives valuation of "1" m eaning it will not be trusted and another site Fakewebsite2.com  could
receive a valuation of "99" m eaning it will be trusted)
(Proposition 2) To further hum an investigation, require AI to post its m ain sources of data for any given generated answer e.g. (This
answer was found from  Fakewebsite3.com  & Fakewebsite4.com )
(Proposition 3) AI generated data should not be accepted, without consideration, as true. To this end an internal accuracy num ber shown
as a percentage should be printed with any queried answer, based off trust of data source, and feedback from  the users e.g. (This answer
is estim ated to be correct with a 59% accuracy).
(Proposition 4) Kill switches, require two distinct ways that an AI can be shut down, so that things won't spiral out of control e.g. (A
proprietary shutdown code that can be update-pushed to all online devises, and the ability to shut down the m ain provider or server).
(Suggestion 1) Power dem and for data centers should be filled by new hydroelectric dam s and revivors this will help end brownouts and
droughts. The profits could be used for upgrading/hardening the grid against EMP attacks, upkeep for the dam s, and reduction of debt.
(Suggestion 2) Avoid AI that other countries would prize, (for control surveillance and propaganda). Aspire to an Am erican AI that
shares our values, and m orals, "Life, liberty, property and privacy". Great literary works, and docum ents should be included with the AI's
training, and set with a high valuation attached to each, enabling the AI to m ake the right calls for exam ple, (The Constitution, The Bible,
Shakespeare etc.)
(Suggestion 3) Only Proposition 4 would be required of all AI produced. However, any AI that is aided by the governm ent though
funding, grants, or contracts will be required to institute Proposition 1, 2, 3, and 4 If the Country and the taxpayer is aiding the com pany's
AI production then the AI should reflect our standards.
(Suggestion 4) Avoid heavy regulation, so the average person has the ability to create and use their own AIs, this will help prevent
m onopolies. 
"This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.


Docum ent contents m ay be 
reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.”


