PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-x8d3-ojm 7
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4266
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I think this is a terrible plan for everyone involved. Here is an article that I have written about AI Ethics and Metaethics:
https://substack.com /hom e/post/p-135706040?utm _cam paign=post&utm _m edium =web. The short version is that the plan proposed here
violates all the tenets that we as a society claim  to value. If you truly believe it is ethical, I will have lost any and all respect for you as pond
scum  let alone as hum an beings. 
I kindly recom m end that you grow a backbone. This will prove disastrous for m illions, if not billions, of people. We have tried giving
com panies with "new" technologies carte blanche before and that went SO WELL every single tim e. Even accepting an argum ent that this
is necessary for the continued developm ent of AI technologies, which seem s like an a priori fallacy in accepting that this is an inherently
good thing in the first place, giving private entities this type of power will prove disastrous by concentrating near com plete power over all
publicly or sem i-publicly available inform ation. 
Of course, just about everyone in this adm inistration seem s to find som e perverse joy in contorting them selves to acquiesce to the new
corporate power of the week. I hope this does not fall on deaf ears given who could see this com m ent, but I am  not optim istic. On top of
concentrating power in the hands of a few people with dubious m orality creating an incredibly vulnerable weak point for an entire industry,
SUCCESSFUL im plem entation of this plan would require a com plete overhaul of every notion that Am erican society has about copyright.
Setting aside the large issue that is the ethical concerns poised by this plan (which, let's face it, if you were truly concerned about that
point, this plan wouldn't be a serious talking point right now), the federal governm ent is not in any position where it could successfully
im plem ent such overhauls right now. And no, sitting back and doing nothing does not constitute successful im plem entation; a trained dog
can do that. 
On the topic of ethical concerns, I do not wish to hear anyone say that they have seriously considered problem s poised by this plan and
say that they think that there are few to no issues. The livelihoods of creatives will be further destabilized than they already were; entire
com panies will be put at risk with a lot less options for recourse. In a country that prim arily has a service based econom y such as
Am erica, we could be talking about an apocalyptic scenario within a decade or so. 
Lastly, the one thing I want you to consider is the following problem . Think of the absolute worst person you know. The worst person that
you could possibly think, that you have ever heard of or interacted with. Now, would you want to give them  the type of power that this
plan grants? Odds are, you don't know everything about the people in charge of com panies like OpenAI. The fact of the m atter is that you
could be giving power to the worst person you know. Do you want to take that risk?


