PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1u0w-v5py
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7776
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Sean Basinger 
General Comment
Thank you for this opportunity to com m ent.
While I understand it is im portant to keep up with the rapid growth of technological advancem ent and for the United States of Am erica to
properly com pete with other countries in these fields, m y concerns today are for the individual and the sm all business owners.
To m y friends, I once com pared the dawn of A.I. to Frankenstein's m onster or the dinosaurs of "Jurassic Park." The scientific geniuses did
not stop to think of the long-term  (or even short-term ) ram ifications these acts could have on the individual. They only saw and thought
about how their advancem ents could help others or be beneficial to m ankind in som e way. While that is noble, it does not change the
dangers and very real threat A.I. places on the individual.
A.I. is growing rapidly. In fact, probably too rapidly. On top of the already very real threat of deepfakes, which has and will give rise to
defam ations of all kinds, as well as allow scam m ers and crim inals to take advantage of others who m ay lack the tools necessary to detect
such scam s, the concern that A.I. will invade the lives of and steal from  hard-working citizens is also very real.
For m any m onths now, the tech com panies and now the White House has cham pioned the advancem ent of A.I. and how it will vastly
im prove the lives of Am ericans and possibly the world. But what protections are you offering us? What safeguards are there to prevent
our jobs from  being taken? What is stopping corporate chiefs and CEOs from  replacing m iddle class or lower class workers with A.I.?
Where does that leave us? What guarantees can you give us that this will either not happen or there will be som e form  of worthwhile
com pensation provided? We already have plenty of struggling Am ericans in this country, and I fear unleashing this big tech on us will only
generate m ore unless som ething is done to prevent it.
And what of the concern that copyright protections will be considered null through som e form  of legislation all in the nam e of progress?
Hundreds if not thousands if not m illions of peoples' hard work and innovation (Am erican innovation), devoured by these soulless
m achines, again, all in the nam e of progress and so that big tech can have an excuse to plunder our hard work. The individual is steam -
rolled over by big tech getting a free pass. And what do we get out of it? The prom ise of a glorified Am erica, strengthened by A.I.? Okay,
fair, it MIGHT lead to m edical innovations or breakthroughs in science, but where's that guarantee? The things couldn't even draw hands
correctly. On the topic of copyright protection, we m ight as well not even bother to create once these things are set in m otion. Stop
drawing your pictures, stop taking your photographs, stop m aking your m ovies, stop acting, stop it all. A m achine will do it for you. It
robs the creator of the joy of creating, and it will rob the audience of authenticity. The heart and soul of creativity will be crushed. And
while the creator can still create even with the advent of A.I., it will cut into their profits and it is only a m atter of tim e before their hard
work is swallowed up by those sam e soulless m achines, or people using those m achines to get ahead. Whereas others spent half their lives
developing their skills day after day, now som ebody who refuses to put in the work will be able to just type in a prom pt and take credit
for the work when all they did was click a keyboard for a few m inutes. And what prom ises and safeguards do you have for them , those
who have spent years trying to better their talents? I'm  sorry, but your word will not be enough.
In closing, I again understand the need to keep up with the technology, so as not to fall behind to rivals on the global stage. But the fear
that m any will be hurt in the nam e of this progress is very real. If this needs to be done, if progress m ust be put forth first, then protections
and com pensation for the average Am erican and the artistic creators of this country need to be put in place before it happens. Thank you.


