PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2x4z-f8xq
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8668
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Rachel Osborne   
Email: 
General Comment
I know I’m  sm all potatoes.
I worked as a citation/bibliography editor for a non-fiction publisher for m any years, and I now work in an unrelated field so I have tim e to
pursue writing. I’m  an author still trying to get m y feet under m e, but confident I’ll get there soon.
As a m em ber of the independent publishing com m unity, we’re already besieged by AI slop from  fake cover artists, fake beta readers,
fake book reviews—and although it’s not m uch yet, it’s getting m ore prom inent—passages of text or even whole “books” from  AI
“authors” attem pting to pass off slop as their own work.
I’m  dism ayed that our governm ent is attem pting to weaken copyright protection. Our entire industry relies on a strong copyright that
protects authors and writers and creators of all sizes from  the giant Disney corporations down to sm all potatoes like m e. Allowing AI tech
to bend the interpretation of “fair use” into theft will irreparably harm  the creative field. It will have an actual and real im pact on this
particular “hum an flourishing, [her] econom ic com petitiveness, and [her personal] security.” I’m  speaking for m yself, but I’m  one of
thousands of independent publishers and authors whose livelihood is already heavily im pacted by current AI restrictions for better or for
worse, and will only be im pacted for the worse if AI tech com panies are allowed to steal from  the rest of us because they think the gam e
isn’t fair because it’s not rigged to favor them .
That’s to say nothing of the deep ecological im pacts that these industries are m aking.
Generative AI is not ethical.
In m y opinion, if AI is to continue, we need:
*to require absolute transparency when it is used in any capacity—an AI disclaim er published with whatever product they’re generating.
*to require AI tech to absolutely respect existing copyright and com pensate the authors of those works (even inform ally published work
online) that are being used to train their m odels.
*to prohibit assigning AI-produced work a copyright, because copyright was always m eant to financially protect authors and their
beneficiaries, not corporations and their stockholders.
*to com pensate the people—that’s all of us living, breathing hum an beings—through heavy taxes on AI tech com panies (and crypto!) for
the ecological repercussions they’re m aking without penalty.
I know this statem ent requires editing, which is ironic considering m y profession, but we’re running on deadline here and I barely saw your
notice on social m edia a few m inutes ago. (Please advertise these things m ore broadly in the future.)
Thank you for considering m y rem arks.


This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.


