PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-xho3-zdju
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4431
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
The concept of looking into private sectors such as tribal organizations, and into infiltrating our educational system  will have a severe and
negative cultural im pact on these groups. By rem oving what is considered "unnecessary" by using AI in these sectors will rem ove the
capability and freedom  of expression that these groups hold dear. As of right now AI has been used to invade the arts, and culture as a
whole, thus cutting down tim e on freedom s of expression but m aking them  appear to the com m on person unnecessary where we can
focus m ore on a life working. But having seen the im pact the arts can have on society, we get m otivation, better sense of self, and
understanding of the people around us. By rem oving the tools of creativity and expression, you are actively punishing those who use the
Arts to form ulate their thoughts, or help people find their true expression. If we look at it from  a different angle, m ore people hold dear a
piece of handcrafted furniture, that has love and tim e put into it, the love and history, it tells a story. A good piece of furniture was carefully
crafted by som eone who worked hard on their passion and holds to scrutiny, and Everyone I know has a piece of furniture in their house
that holds an em otional im pact to them . I have several heavy Walnut end tables and cabinets that were hand crafted here in the United
states that sym bolizes m y parents m arriage. I also have a pile of broken m ass produced desks in m y garage I use as a place to store
garbage, that I don't care if they break and toss away. We rem ove this bit of Am erican History by focusing on AI to cut out our cultural
m easures, we Lose the hard working Am erican that this Bill is reportedly trying to save. It does a disservice to the craftsm an, and the real
Am erican Pursuing happiness and freedom  by telling his story and the story of Am erica itself, but turning all this into a lines of Code on a
com puter. Our great national sym bol the Am erican Flag was hand crafted. Our national Anthem  written, by a m an hiding from  battlem ents
exploding above him , in a tim e of great distress, the purity of this nation has com e out as a Sym bol of who we are, but we lose these
Stories by pushing AI, they will becom e things of Legend, and not our History, because we will be disassociated from  these concepts We
need people to create and build our culture and not generate it because som eone hates looking inwardly at them selves because they don't
em body the true definition of what this country stands for.
DO NOT LET THIS GO THRU!


