PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zl1b-tkk5
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5955
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Alexander Gam m icchia
Em ail:  
General Comment
Despite what the alleged visionaries from  places like Silicon Valley would have you believe, AI is looking to be the greatest boondoggle of
the m odern era, and one that will likely leech m assively at governm ent spending and/or private funding, whether it eventually works or not.
People like Sam  Altm an, eager to get their hands on funding from  gullible investors and helpless taxpayers alike, will tell you two great lies
when it com es to why AI is necessary.
1. AGI is right around the corner (We just need to feed our current m odels enough data stolen from  the public and eventually literally all
the problem s in the world will be solved!)
2. The US needs to pour an unholy am ount of capital into funding AI developm ent or else China will beat us and then (???)
Now, let's address the flaws with both of these ideas.
1. What has been hyped up as "AI" over the last few years are system s called LLMs (Large Language Models) that have essentially been
fed huge am ounts of data and taught to sort it into m eaningful output according to their training. Though described as "Machine Learning",
these system s cannot think, and no am ount of funding down the paths com panies like Google or OpenAI wish to take will ever create
anything like true AGI. (Source: https://www.reim agine-energy.ai/p/is-infinite-energy-all-we-need-to?
utm _cam paign=post&utm _m edium =web )
In fact, LLMs have already plateaued greatly over the last two years and have not solved grievous errors that would support their use
cases in everyday life. One problem  with AI is that the com panies working on them , despite the m assive am ount of m oney already given
to them , have been unable to elim inate or even greatly im prove the "hallucinations" causing LLMs to output com pletely incorrect and
farcical data. (Source: https://www.404m edia.co/ai-lawyer-hallucination-sanctions/ )
2. So what about China, then? Well the race there is already over as instead of behaving like US tech m oguls who give vague prom ises of
increasing functionality and usability in exchange for billions or, as Sam  Altm an thinks, trillions of dollars (Source:
https://www.wsj.com /tech/ai/sam -altm an-seeks-trillions-of-dollars-to-reshape-business-of-chips-and-ai-89ab3db0), the Chinese have
already publicly released LLMs that m ight even be up to snuff with US m odels, and potentially even m ore efficient considering they only
trained them  using around six m illion in capital. (Source: https://www.nbcnews.com /business/m arkets/tech-stocks-react-chinas-deepseek-
sparks-us-worries-ai-race-rcna189394)
With that said, what are we even trying to beat China at here? Building better fake super AIs that just output com pletely bogus inform ation
anyways?
To m ost Am ericans this will seem  m uch m ore like an elaborate em bezzling schem e as opposed to actual scientific progress, especially
when com paring funding required by the Chinese for AI developm ent to that being begged for by Am erican CEOs and tech
spokespeople. I thought this entire adm inistration wanted to cut the fat off of this kind of spending, so why can't these com panies do m ore


with less them selves? 
As for regulation, I believe that AI is one of the places where m ore guardrails are desperately needed in order to avert econom ic
catastrophe. The disregard for m oral im perative when it com es to these com panies stealing data from  artists, writers, coders, and m any
other professionals, and then using said data to churn out cheap rubbish to put these sam e people out of work is alarm ing, to say the least.
I'm  sure talking about the ethics of such things is going to fall on deaf ears, but what's going to happen when these people are unem ployed
because others are churning out cheap (And honestly, horrible) generative AI writing, design work, and coding at ten tim es the pace? Do
we really want to live in a world filled with soulless culture created at the press of a button and an even greater unem ploym ent rate than
that of the Great Depression? (Source: https://www.bbc.com /news/technology-65102150)
Technologists would have you believe that new jobs will pop up to replace those lost, but then refuse to elaborate on just how that will be
the case.
Without regulation, LLMs and other Generative AI m odels are set to com pletely upend the econom y as we know it; theft of intellectual
property and autom ating away entire swathes of the corporate sector are just the tip of the iceberg when it com es to potential problem s
that we will see. Those in support of AI prom ise (And prom ise, and prom ise again!) that we'll all be treated to a grand utopia when we
finally reach an alleged AGI-based "Singularity", but all I see is a race to the bottom  as the econom y crashes while the great and the good
fuel the fire with m oney better spent to any other purpose than feeding the bottom less dem ands of Silicon Valley. Is that really what this
adm inistration wishes to be rem em bered for?


