PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 06, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 7x-sssm -tjo4
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1084
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Eugene Gershman 
General Comment
See attached file "Optim izing AI Industry".
Attachments
AI_Action_Plan


1
“This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains 
no business-proprietary or confidential information.
Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.”
Optimizing AI Industry
To optimize the intelligence of AI actions, neural networks must act according 
to the principles of epistemology – 
http://world.kamerton.global/en/node/369  .
Therefore, neural networks must receive learning and analyzed text 
information in the format of semantic units – descriptions of elementary 
properties of objects, operate with these units, and generate output 
messages in the format of semantic units.
Using information formatted according to the principles of 
epistemology will significantly increase the profitability of the 
production and application of AI.
One of the main functions of AI should be the detection of semantic errors in 
analyzed texts – incorrect words, logical contradictions, and inconsistencies 
with facts.
To minimize the likelihood of generating errors and hallucinations, AI must 
function in a discussion mode.


2
AI bot messages should be checked by another AI bot or even two bots to 
detect errors.
AI bots should present discussions of their errors to users, who will participate 
in the discussions and determine the persuasiveness of the bots' arguments.
AI uses both reliable information and false information and often does not 
distinguish true information from false.
If several alternative hypotheses on the content of the output message are 
known, the AI should communicate all such hypotheses to users, who will 
determine the persuasiveness and possible erroneousness of the 
hypotheses.
AI should collect user assessments of the credibility of information sources 
and communicate them to users.
For the effectiveness of AI-user interactions to be optimal, users must 
adhere to the principles of epistemology.
Therefore, the dissemination of AI technologies should be accompanied by 
the propagation of scientific formatting of semantic information and the 
formalization of the intellectual activity of users.
Manufacturers of AI technologies should include descriptions of these 
procedures in the manuals for using these technologies.


3
Corporations producing AI systems must persuade the US corporate 
business community to implement these epistemic procedures by promoting 
their intelligent process practices. 
To do this, they must implement these procedures in their internal activities – 
in document formats, in management processes, and in decision making – 
and publish information about these procedures and their high efficiency.
The development of AI technologies will stimulate the application of the 
principles of epistemology in all intellectual fields  – in economics, 
science, education, etc.
Mass compliance with these principles will cause an economic effect 
greater than the use of AI technologies.
The joint use of the principles of epistemology and AI technologies will create 
their additional synergistic effect.
The spread of AI will qualitatively change not only technologies and 
businesses but even social systems.
Therefore, the US Government should create the Public Council  for 
optimizing AI social effects.
Members of this Council should be corporations – creators of AI technologies, 
scientific institutes, representatives of the Government, business 
associations, professional unions.


4
This Council will create bills and recommendations for the development and 
investment of AI technologies.
This Council will operate on the Internet, constantly, based on the principles 
of epistemology.
The possible unprofitability of AI technologies will cause not only losses to 
investors but also the impossibility of recouping part of the AI industry.
Therefore, part of the AI data centers will be non-profit and public.
They will belong to social associations, municipal organizations, and 
government agencies.
One of the main intellectual functions of people and social systems is the 
Choice.
People, businesses, and societies spend a lot of effort, time, and resources 
on this function.
People choose goods and services, places of work and residence, marriage 
partners, doctors, lawyers.
Businesses choose partners, business models, products, technologies, 
locations, logistics, workers.
Societies choose places to build new settlements, objects in them, 
production, transport routes, infrastructure.


5
AI neural networks are able to effectively search for options for ways to 
satisfy these needs, detect possible errors in them and reject erroneous 
options, compare options according to utility criteria and recommend the best 
ones.
These functions are relatively simpler and more formalizable compared to 
complex planning and innovation management processes.
At the same time, these functions are very widespread and can generate 
profits.
Thus, the Choice function should be the primary and main direction of 
development of commercial AI technologies.
The archaic US PTO patent system causes $ hundreds of billions in losses to 
the US economy every year.
AI will not be able to operate effectively in the existing system due to its 
cumbersomeness and overflow of low-quality patent information.
Reforming the patent system according to the principles of epistemology – 
http://world.kamerton.global/en/node/368 –  will maximize the effectiveness 
of AI in this system and significantly improve the functioning of the 
technological sectors of the economy.
"The Scientific System of Collective Discussions and Evaluations" – 
http://linkedin.com/pulse/sc-eugene-gershman-8nfbc –  will provide 


6
opportunities to adequately assess the reliability, value, and errors of 
scientific papers and information sources and will increase the effectiveness 
of scientific activity several times.
The scientific community sabotages the creation of such systems because 
they will clearly show the triviality, insignificance, and erroneousness of most 
scientific papers.
Corporations that create AI technologies are interested in using reliable 
knowledge and minimizing false knowledge to learn neural networks; 
therefore, they should initiate the creation and widespread use of such 
systems.
In order to minimize layoffs, professional associations of specialists sabotage 
the use of AI and falsify sham errors in its work.
Doctors' associations are the main obstacle to the use of AI in medicine. They 
claim that AI is not capable of diagnosing diseases and recommending 
treatments. Although today, AI determines correct diagnoses and treatments 
twice as well as most doctors.
The main method to overcome such sabotage is the creation of consumer 
and business associations that will hire competent and objective experts and, 
according to their conclusions, will license AI technologies and systems, 
including medical ones.


7
Higher schools, colleges, and universities will stop archaic and ineffective 
lecture teaching.
They will mainly train students' practical skills.
AI tutors will personally give theoretical knowledge to students.
Students will practice in production, in offices, in research institutes.
Such education will maximize efficiency and minimize cost.
Scientific functions will be separated from universities and transferred to 
scientific institutes.
Multimodal AI polygraphs will simultaneously analyze physiological 
processes, facial expressions, voice, handwriting, gestures, motor skills, and 
brain MRI of examinees.
Such AI polygraphs will reliably detect lies with a probability of 99.9%.
Their widespread use will minimize crime, fraud, and espionage to almost 
zero.
A full description of the ideas presented is published on the website 
http://linkedin.com/pulse/ai-eugene-gershman-ciabe
E. Gershman
linkedin.com/in/eugene-gershman


