PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 10, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 83-rf1y-y10j
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1127
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Daniel Marcoux  
General Comment
Responsible investm ent in AI does not m ean investing in m ore hardware. Geoffrey Hinton won the Nobel Prize this year for his work on a
type of neural network that runs in parallel (m eaning doesn't need giant cpus) called a restricted boltzm an m achine, and DeepSeak proved
that software innovation can im prove deep learning. LLM's are largely a m iddlem an to the internet. Microsoft sees this, and decided all
developers should use GPT for API calls, and all users should use GPT for internet searches. There is no deeper capability. Where there
IS prom ise:
Deterrence: Bolster electrical grids and utilities with sm art system s. The m ore resilient our infrastructure, the m ore incurred cost on our
enem ies.
Research: Use neural networks to explore the latent space of SPECIFIC problem s. Especially im portant are m eta-m aterials,
m anufacturing processes, stockpile m aintenance and testing, cybersecurity and com m unications, new drugs and vaccines, and
im m unology, farm ing and genom ics etc. 
What is NOT helpful is AGI. There exist known paradoxes in language problem s such as Godel's incom pleteness theorem  and P=NP that
m ake AGI capabilities plateau after general intellect if trained on general data. They by nature cannot becom e generally superintelligent.
Superintelligence can only be achieved in arenas where there are verifiable problem s like specific science and m athem atics. Additionally
AI agents are largely vaporware. They do the sam e thing as chatbots and people hate chatbots. Replacing any governm ent HR,
accounting, etc. with AI is a terrible idea as well, the security concern alone is enough to take issue. 
Donald Trum p is an expert in seeing real value. He plays the business gam e well, but in the end his success cam e from  knowing physical
property is the asset everyone needs. Please consider investing in our Infrastructure! If we buried electrical lines, secured high voltage
transform ers, invested in roads bridges... all these things create jobs for norm al people and serve to im prove our resiliency! AI is truly
am azing, but too long has the tech elite used it for greedy purposes and exploitation. The USA could reinvent itself as the prem ier
researchers at the high skill tier, the prem ier im plem enters through m anufacturing and infrastructure, and lift our struggling m iddle and lower
classes.


