PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2nk4-b3kq
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8750
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Derek Sherepita
General Comment
The use of AI or any other m achine learning program s or system s should not be used to replace the work of, or em ploym ent of, any able
Am erican worker. Doing so would only serve to shrink the Am erican work force and create an even m ore distinct wealth gap.
Attachments
NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479


March 14, 2025 
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
“AI” and other machine learning programs can be great tools to be used in special cases and 
scenarios. Scientific research and data analysis for predictive models could benefit greatly by 
use of these programs used as tools. However the intended use for most Artificial Intelligence at 
the forefront of this discussion are not made to be used in this way. Instead these programs are 
being used to rob people of their work and livelihood. If we are not careful with where we allow 
AI to be implemented we will soon see more Americans displaced, unemployed and homeless. 
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google 
threaten to destroy thousands of American small businesses with their recent demand to 
create special carve outs in copyright law. 
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work made by people. The work of 
hundreds of thousands of everyday American creators was taken and fed into these AI systems 
without consent or any compensation. They ingest this work, reassemble it, and then sell it back 
– directly competing with American individuals and cutting them out of the marketplace.
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. 
They are suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow 
suddenly “fair use”.  
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to 
rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation. 
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to 
protect the incentive to create and innovate.  
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen 
by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new 
innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it 
immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will 
we possibly make a living doing these things? 


Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and 
everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency. 
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition: 
●First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent, so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
●Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that
the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. This work has immense
economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original
creators, not just Big Tech.
●Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what
content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. However the use of AI needs to be 
carefully implemented and monitored. 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues. 


