PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-kh93-oww4
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2337
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Rem oving restrictions on the developm ent of AI does not m ake the United States a dom inant player in the global technology space. It
m akes already globally dom inant private com panies m ore capable of disenfranchising even m ore already vulnerable Am ericans by
believing that their hum an input is no longer necessary, that our environm ent is not worth protecting, and our trust in the circulation of
knowledge is an obstacle to overcom e for their bottom  line.
Com panies and individuals cannot be allowed to indiscrim inately or discreetly harvest other individual's or group's creations or output to
train their AI m odels, especially without their consent. This is already being done, illegally, and their illegal actions cannot be condoned. 
Com panies and individuals cannot be allowed to indiscrim inately or discreetly enlarge their negative environm ental footprint to train AI
m odels and output AI creations at the expense of the well being of our planet and all who live on it.
Com panies and individuals cannot be allowed to indiscrim inately or discreetly allow their AI to present itself as an actual reputable
intelligence or a real person. The dangers of this cannot be overstated. 
Com panies and individuals cannot be allowed to indiscrim inately or discreetly present their AI as a reputable source of knowledge or
inform ation. The influence AI can have on influencing young children who believe it to be so, again, is a danger that cannot be overstated.
Com panies and individuals cannot be allowed to indiscrim inately or discreetly claim  copyright or ownership of m aterials created through
the use of an AI m odel that used data from  individuals or groups who did not consent, were uncom pensated, were unnam ed, or were
otherwise unwilling to have their data used for this purpose.
Unregulated AI does not lead to a bright future. It leads to m assive disinform ation, m assive disenfranchisem ent of an already struggling
populace, and m assive negative environm ental im pacts from  a country that is already failing to keep up with other nations leading the
charge into a cleaner future. Unregulated AI is not m eant to benefit the Am erican people, it is m eant in spite of them  for the benefit of the
already powerful.


