PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-z490-9f96
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5846
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Felicia Bartoli  
General Comment
I have spent m y life as a technical illustrator and witnessed first hand the downsizing of this industry and the decrease in quality as a result.
AI feeds off of m y technical m anuals and creates worse outputs with larger inaccuracies in the work.
See attached file for m ore details.
Attachments
Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence


March 1 5, 2025 
From: 
Felicia Bartoli  
Technical Illustrator  
Re: Nationa l Scie nce Foundation ’s Request for Information on th e Development of an Artificial 
Intelligenc e (AI) Action Plan 
I am an everyday American who work s fullti me f or technic al publication s company and part 
time a s a s mall b usiness c reato r. I hav e worked hard for year s to develop th e skills an d 
knowledg e to build m y portfolio , and hav e been lucky enough t o mak e a decent livin g and 
support my f amily – until recentl y. 
The AI system s made by Big Tech companie s like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to 
destroy thousand s of American small businesse s like mine and disrup t industries with their 
recen t demand t o create special carve outs in copyrigh t law. 
AI systems can only b e produced by first trainin g on work mad e by peopl e. M y uniqu e work, and 
the work of hundreds of thousand s of othe r everyday American creator s was taken and fed into 
these AI systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest ou r work, reassemble 
it, and then s ell it back to our client s – directly competin g with u s and cuttin g us out of the 
marketplace. On top of a ll that th e work they send back is often wor se quality and frequently 
requires edit s and tweak s to mak e it publication read y. 
Now these B ig Tech companies are askin g this administration t o create exception s and 
loophole s to mak e this practice of s tealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal 
precedent. They are suggestin g that if a machin e ingest s and repr oduces c opyrighted work , it is 
somehow suddenly “fair use ”.  
They seem to believ e that anythin g and everythin g on th e internet – regard less of who own s it – 
should b e their s for th e taking. They claim that if th is administration doe s not allow th em t o 
rewrit e the law in this wa y, it will stifle American innovation. 
Instead , it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyrigh t law i s to protect 
the incentive to create and innovate.  
If we th e American peopl e do not own our creations, and everything we put online w ill be 
stolen by B ig Tech giants, what w ill be the incentiv e to creat e? If e veryda y Ame rican s create a 
new innovative pi ece o f computer c ode, a n ew visu al design , or a n ew piec e of mu sic only to 


have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? 
How will we possibly make a living doing these things?  
These questions are twofold when it comes to company creations. What is the incentive for 
compa nies to post  training videos or operation manuals online if its going to be duplicated by 
knock off brands? How can they ensure their work won ’t be stolen ? Programs like O penA I have 
used  member exclusive content like New York Times articles, P atreon posts , and John Deere 
manual s, that were locked b ehind pay walls and subscriptions.  If AI copyright exceptions  are 
created, what will prote ct industries from their own competition? How will this not create a 
race to the bottom as innovation is left behind for cheap copy cats?  And most importantly, how 
would this create jobs when the past year and a half has  led to thousands of job layoffs within 
tech and publication industries?  
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday 
Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.  
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:  
•First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
•Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the
incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic
value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not
just Big Tech.
•Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what
content is AI generated.
I am not anti -technology or anti -AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard 
work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to B ig Tech by rewriting copyright 
law. 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.  


