PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-0rlr-9sqg
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1376
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
Governm ent should dism antle NSF, NIH, And all such junks. Stop funding anything using tax payers' m oney. Too m any frauds. Too m any
junks. 
Leave scientific and technological research to private sectors.
Did Newton get any governm ent funding for his discovery?
Did Gauss get any governm ent funding for his research?
Did Tesla get any governm ent funding for his work?
None.
They were all funded by private citizen sponsors who were wealthy enough and interested enough.
Leave this to private sectors. They know if any research has any values to the society. They care about their m oney m ore than you do. 
Leave it to m arket.
Artificial Intelligence? It is nothing but a scam  to screw Am erica for a few m ore years while it still has som e wealth left. 
Am erica used to be able to afford junk researches --- Am erica used to be abundantly affluent. Not any m ore. It will go bankrupt very
soon. 
It is just a m atter of when; not if. I expect this country will becom e dism antled by itself in 5 years. There will be no United States of
Am erica in 5 years. Wait and see.
Hey, let's dance while the m usic is playing.
Let's pull m ore m oney in our pockets while we can.
Let's eat Am erica's corpse while it is still warm  and kicking. It will be dead anyway. It is just a m atter who will eat the m ost of its dead
body. Soros, Elon Musk, Bill Gates, Warren Buffet, Chuck Shulm er, Paul Ryan, Nangcy Pelosi, or Michael Johnson? They will all get
their share for sure. And they all have a place to go, like rats know the best where to jum p the ship when the ship is going to sink. 
but ordinary John Doe --- stay aside and weep for yourself. Who cares. 


SO, why not Artificial Intelligence? These are little scam m ers; how m uch m ore m oney can they waste? It does not m ake any difference
any way at this m om ent. 
Great, folks. Let's join the feast while the door is open!!! 


