PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2nl0-ex80
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8465
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: sam  jacob
General Comment
Hi.
This is insanely stupid.
Like jesus christ.
Full sweeping im m unity for OpenAI to all copyright related lawsuits is probably one of the dum best things you could possibly do in a
country/world that runs on copyright law.
If OpenAI is granted this im m unity then OpenAI also needs to m ade a purely governm ent owned and operated com pany and sam e for
any other AI that benefits from  this.
Also are you guys seriously using the "national security" argum ent here? Really? Is it also going to save the kids? Ridiculous.
Also also this will not prom ote "hum an flourishing." We've already seen AI, which was prom ised not to steal jobs, steal jobs. So this is the
exact opposite of hum an flourishing in a society that requires people to have jobs to live.
Absolutely stupid. These people should all be in jail.
ALSO also also where the hell did the BILLIONS of dollars that these com panies were given go? What have they possibly been
spending it on other than a third yacht? Deepseek absolutely destroyed these com panies with inferior hardware yet you expect us to
believe that you need m ore m oney and sweeping protections?
These com panies should be destroyed and the owners should be in jail.
Of course we're getting our butts handed to us by China. They've been investing in the younger generations for decades while the U.S. has
been taking away education.
Fresh water should not ever be used in the cooling of any system s related to com puters or technology on a com m ercial/governm ent scale.
Our country is dying of thirst because all of our water is getting used by these chuds.
Absolutely every bit of inform ation needs to be forced to be open source.
AI should NEVER be used by the m ilitary, navy, air force, police, etc. AI is garbage at telling hum ans apart. We've already seen AI
CONSTANTLY m ake up com plete nonsense and incorrectly "identify" suspects who com m itted crim es. Once there is no longer a hum an
pulling the trigger (which right now there is BARELY hum an intervention even though, again, we were prom ised that AI would never be
killing people) the world will fall apart.
Everyone who thinks this is a good idea is either one of the dum best people on the planet or a m oney hungry sack of garbage.


