PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-y85x-m qxb
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4883
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Hugh McMon igle 
General Comment
Artificial Intelligence, when used correctly, is a powerful tool that can be used for the public good. It can autom ate processes that are
dangerous or tim e-consum ing, and can increase efficiency in repetitive tasks.
But hum an creativity can NEVER be allowed to be autom ated with AI.
Artists across the world dedicate their lives to bringing us their beautiful crafts, often for very little in return. But for as little as artists are
paid, it is still too m uch in the m inds of corporations. They seek to elim inate the artist entirely by stealing not only their work, but their
style. A corporation could, if AI is im m une from  copyright infringem ent claim s, instruct an AI to com pletely copy an artist's style and
produce im ages resem bling the artist's work, effectively generating forgeries with no acknowledgem ent or paym ent to the original artist.
The corporations have m ade the claim  that "The AI race is over" if they are not allowed to freely steal m aterial. If that is the case, then that
is a relief. We, the people of the United States, did not ask for our hum anity to be boxed into a m achine. We the people did not ask for
our very em otions to be trivialized and copied into soulless forgeries.
If AI cannot exist without breaking copyright laws, then it should not exist. It is not your job to decide laws by how m uch m oney
corporations stand to m ake from  it. It is your job to decide laws based on what protects the people.
You cannot protect the people by allowing big businesses to steal freely from  our very words and m inds.
Am erica's "AI Dom inance" is not what we need right now. What we need is to own our own thoughts and feelings, and to be able to
differentiate what is real from  what is fake. What we need is for this AI fad to end.


