PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0pcc-ezdt
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6804
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
From  a concerned citizen and sm all business owner.
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am  an everyday Am erican who runs a sm all visual design business. I have worked hard for years to develop the skills and knowledge to
build m y business, and have been lucky enough to m ake a decent living – until recently.
The AI system s m ade by Big Tech com panies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy thousands of Am erican sm all
businesses like m ine with their recent dem and to create special carve outs in copyright law.
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. My unique work, and the work of hundreds of thousands of
other everyday Am erican creators was taken and fed into these AI system s without our consent or any com pensation. They ingest our
work, reassem ble it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly com peting with us and cutting us out of the m arketplace.
Now these Big Tech com panies are asking this adm inistration to create exceptions and loopholes to m ake this practice of stealing
Am erican creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a m achine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it
is som ehow suddenly “fair use”. 
They seem  to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim
that if this adm inistration does not allow them  to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle Am erican innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of Am erican copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the Am erican people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the
incentive to create? If everyday Am ericans create a new innovative piece of com puter code, a new visual design, or a new piece of m usic
only to have it im m ediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly m ake a living
doing these things?
Want to protect Am erican innovation? Protect Am erican creators. Do not create new copyright exem ptions that allow Big Tech
com panies to exploit and steal from  creators and everyday Am ericans without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency.
AI is not the future of the Am erican econom y, it is a bubble that will eventually burst leaving endless debts in its wake, but not before
destroying the futures of countless Am erican creatives who could be giving back to the econom y instead of the pockets of foreign
shareholders once Am erican intellectual properties no longer have any value.
The loss of copyright protections would affect sm all and big businesses alike, and Am erica would no longer be the world's entertainm ent
capitol.
Thank you for the opportunity to com m ent on these im portant issues.


