PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-tjbh-7fg1
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3255
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Anonymous Anonymous 
General Comment
Reading through the executive order regarding A.I., one cannot help but notice a distinct lack of understanding in what A.I. is or what
viable use cases there are. The niche use cases for purpose built A.I. in m edical analysis and other scientific fields can be valuable in the
hands of experts and those who understand the fundam ental lim itations of A.I. The A.I. referred to in com m on parlance and the executive
order is a different m atter, and the m ethods to create or "im prove" it have proven to be inefficient and unethical. Big technology com panies
already have outsized influence and power over us and they do not need even m ore power and influence. The governm ent should not
allow them  to disregard existing intellectual property laws for the sake of "global AI dom inance". People are the true innovators and
creators; thus the encouragem ent for creation and innovation m ust be directed toward the people, not A.I. or its facilitators.
If A.I. is to be used, there m ust be barriers and policies in place to prevent m ishandling of that tool. Below are guardrails that I think m ost
living the the United States would find reasonable and essential to protect our rights.
COPYRIGHT:
Copyrighted m aterial or creative com m ons licensed works m ust not be used for any artificial intelligence purposes unless written consent is
given by the original creator(s) of the works. Failure to obtain consent m ust be considered a violation of the law and the entity operating or
training the A.I. m ust rem ove the data from  the training data set and pay restitution to the original creator(s) as applicable.
OPT-IN AND OPT-OUT RIGHTS:
All individuals, com panies, or organizations have a fundam ental right to not have their works, likenesses, inform ation, et cetera, used in
training artificial intelligence by default. Any service that uses A.I. or m ay use A.I. in the future, m ust allow users to opt-in if they want to
allow their data to be used in this m anner. It is not acceptable for users to be autom atically opted-in or retroactively opted-in. Any user
m ust be allowed to opt-out if they so choose and have their data rem oved from  the data training set. Software or services that offer A.I.
m ust allow that set of features or options to be perm anently rem oved at the client level.
WATERMARKING & METADATA:
Generative A.I. outputs m ust have conspicuous waterm arks indicating that the output was A.I. m ade. Metadata m ust include and not be
lim ited to: A.I. m odel(s) used, creation tim estam ps, and platform  or service used. This is a m ust for transparency and integrity of accurate
inform ation.
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be 
reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.


