PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 88-vh78-xquk
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1339
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Blueprint.Inc
General Comment
As a sm all business owner, I love AI. It has the potential to help us autom ate m uch of our workflow and is integral to keeping Am erica
com petitive in global m arketing.
Our business is publishing. We em ploy 22 hardworking Am ericans and produce hundreds of original works per m onth. These articles are
not written with AI, but we use the technology to help us copy-edit and brainstorm . It is fantastic and am azing in so m any ways. We want
Am erica to prom ote and develop AI and firm ly support efforts to m ake us a world leader.
We have only two asks:
1) That copyright law is built into the process and respected. Napster alm ost killed the m usic industry. The courts correctly ruled that
stealing m usic was forbidden. Then, technologies were developed to m easure m usic stream ing, and an entire new industry was born.
Things didn't go back to the "old ways," but they m orphed into som ething different - and as a result, the m usic industry exists today. We
ask for the sam e licensing system  for AI LLMs using our content - and this m ust include ALL publishers and not just big m edia
com panies.
2) That the power and m ight of the United States is used to protect our intellectual property rights worldwide. Big tech com panies or
foreign governm ents should not ingest our content, censor output, control the narrative, and profit from  our work. Any com pany or
country shown to engage in anything other than transparent, free, and com pensated use of content should be subject to the harshest
penalties. To steal from  U.S. citizens and rights-holders should be an act of war.
We are at a critical juncture with a fascinating and powerful new technology. Now is the tim e to m ake the right choices to both keep
Am erica a leader in AI developm ent and sustain content creation in a long-term  m anner. After all, without content, AI stagnates and fails.
Plus, it is just the right thing to do.
Thank you for your consideration. 


