PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2p7f-xldn
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8786
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Jed Brown    
Email: 
General Comment
The AI industry is built on the m ass laundering of behavior that would be clear copyright infringem ent if done by a hum an (e.g., near-
verbatim  replication of pages of copyright software). Many of the behaviors of deployed system s would be illegal if perform ed by a hum an
(violating civil rights law, m edical and legal licensure laws, em ploym ent law, etc.). The m ost crucial innovation of this industry is to exploit
am biguities and loopholes in existing law to create system s that allegedly evade liability. The products would never pass safety or fitness
for purpose standards that other industries are expected to com ply with. 
https://spectrum .ieee.org/ai-code-generation-ownership
https://doi.org/10.1145/3531146.3533158
https://doi.org/10.1145/3442188.3445922
And yet these AI com panies have been an investor's dream  speculation instrum ent because of the prom ise of m ass exploitation of a
captive populace. Having reached m arket saturation and being over-extended with respect to copyright law, these com panies are
increasingly desperate for governm ent assistance to justify their extrem e valuations. (None of these com panies have a profitable product
and their P/E ratios are huge. They will need to spike revenue soon, but the product isn't good enough for people to pay that prem ium
voluntarily.) The governm ent assistance they seek will com e at the cost of constitutional rights and global hum an rights, as well as severe
global environm ental harm .
It's im portant to realize that AI does not have a m eaningful technical definition. NAIRR (https://www.ai.gov/wp-
content/uploads/2023/01/NAIRR-TF-Final-Report-2023.pdf) attem pted such a technical definition, yet it clearly applies to all operational
num erical weather prediction since their dawn in the 1950s. And yet AI practitioners will invent additional criteria to exclude such
"classical" techniques. Indeed, there is a spectrum  between m echanism -first and data-first system s, with often-fruitful synergies between
them . 
While bearing negligible technical inform ation, use of the nam e "AI" is a cultural affinity signal of disregard for harm s caused by shoddy
system s. Any future AI initiative should engage deeply with how the field is repeating the crisis confronted by the com putational fluids
com m unity in the 1980s (see attached editorial board statem ent for the Journal of Fluids Engineering). The aerospace industry and
research com m unity of the 1980s were forced to clean up their own house because they were not awash with hundreds of billions in
investm ent dollars with governm ent standing by to rescue them  from  consequences for producing unreliable and poorly-perform ing
aircraft. Rigorous Verification and Validation practices em erged from  the 1980s crisis in fluids engineering, and have served well to
im prove efficiency and capability while avoiding the m assive engineering catastrophes of earlier eras.
The AI industry needs to stop dodging liability and reckon with a m andate to ensure their products are safe and reliable, fit for purpose,
and able to pass strict regulatory scrutiny, m uch like the aerospace industry. If AI com panies wish to establish that training is not copyright
infringem ent, they should adopt practices capable of establishing that with hum an agents, nam ely clean-room  design
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clean-room _design). Today's AI system s are incapable of being trained by clean-room  design, but doing so
would be a real advance. If a hum an doing a task would be liable, the operators of an AI system  assigned that task should assum e the
sam e direct liability. If a task would be illegal if perform ed by a hum an, it m ust also be illegal to operate an AI system  perform ing that task.
Insisting on such criteria will create m any research opportunities, and we will find that m any previously-claim ed results (as well as industry
practices) do not stand up to scrutiny. NSF should focus convergent research attention on the design of effective regulation and standards.


Attachments
RoacheGhiaWhite-JFEEditorialPolicyStatem entControlOfNum ericalAccuracy-1986


Editorial Policy Statement on the Control of Numerical Accuracy 
A professional problem exists in the computational fluid 
dynamics community and also in the broader area of com­
putational physics. Namely, there is a need for higher stan­
dards on the control of numerical accuracy. 
The numerical fluid dynamics community is aware of this 
problem but, although individual researchers strive to control 
accuracy, the issue has not to our knowledge been addressed 
collectively and formally by any professional society of jour­
nal editorial board. The problem is certainly not unique to the 
JFE and came into even sharper focus at the 1980-81 
AFOSRHTTM-Stanford Conference on Complex Turbulent 
Flows. It was a conclusion of that conference's Evaluation 
Committee1 that, in most of the submissions to that con­
ference, it was impossible to evaluate and compare the ac­
curacy of different turbulence models, since one could not 
distinguish physical modeling eerors from numerical errors 
related to the algorithm and grid. This is especially the case for 
first-order accurate methods and hybrid methods. 
The practice of publishing comparisons based on coarse 
grid solutions, without systematic truncation error testing, 
may have been acceptable in the past. Certainly ten to fifteen 
years ago any calculation was of interest, and much of the ex­
ploratory work deserved publication, as many researchers 
lacked the computational power or funds to do a thorough 
and systematic error estimation. We are of the opinion that 
this practice, however understandable in the past, is outmoded 
and that, with powerful computers becoming more common, 
Emmons, H. W. (Chairman), "Evaluation Committee Report," pp. 
979-986 in Proc. 1980-81 AFOSR-HTTM-Stanford Conference on Complex 
Turbulent Flows, Vol. II, "Taxonomies, Reporter's Summaries, Evaluation, 
and Conclusions," Thermosciences Division, Mechanical Engineering Depart­
ment, Stanford University. standards should be raised. Consequently, this journal hereby 
announces the following policy: 
The Journal of Fluids Engineering will not accept for 
publication any paper reporting the numerical solution 
of a fluids engineering problem that fails to address the 
task of systematic truncation error testing and accuracy 
estimation. 
Although the formal announcement of this journal policy is 
new, it has been the practice of many of our conscientious 
reviewers. Thus the present announcement is not a change in 
policy so much as a clarification and standardization. 
Methods are available to accomplish this task, such as 
Richardson extrapolation (when applicable), calculations with 
a high- and low-order method on the same grid, and 
straightforward repeat calculations with finer or coarser grids. 
As in the case of experimental uncertainty analysis, "... any 
appropriate analysis is far better than none as long as the pro­
cedure is explained."2 Whatever the authors use will be con­
sidered in the review process, but we must make it clear that a 
single calculation in a fixed grid will not be acceptable, since it 
is impossible to infer an accuracy estimate from such a 
calculation. Also, the editors will not consider a reasonable 
agreement with experimental data to be sufficient proof of ac­
curacy, especially if any adjustable parameters are involved, 
as in turbulence modeling. 
We recognize that it can be costly to do a thorough study, 
and that many practical engineering calculations will continue 
to be performed on a single fixed grid. However, this practice 
is insufficient for publication in an archival journal. 
Kline, S. J ., "The Purposes of Uncertainty Analysis," ASME JOURNAL OF 
FLUIDS ENGINEERING, Vol. 107, June 1985, pp. 153-164. 
Patrick J. Roache 
KlrtiN.Ghia 
Frank M. White 
JFE Editorial Board 
Contents (continued) 
18 Call for Papers - Symposium on Turbulent Shear Flows 
33 Erratum on a Previously Published Paper by T. Bulaty and H. Niessner 
38 Erratum on a Previously Published Paper by A. M. Lynnworth and L. C. Lynnworth 
46 Transactions Change of Address Form 
63 Call for Papers-1987 Fluids Engineering Spring Conference 
70 Call for Papers - Symposium on Parallel Processor Applications in Fluid Mechanics 
122 Announcement - 1987 Spring Meeting 
2/Vol. 108, MARCH 1986 Transactions of the ASME 
Copyright © 1986 by ASME
  Downloaded 12 Jul 2010 to 129.132.59.11. Redistribution subject to ASME license or copyright; see http://www.asme.org/terms/Terms_Use.cfm


