PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-9wcj-q929
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1463
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Allen Vote 
General Comment
As som eone who has grown up in the whole Inform ation Age (Born 1989), som eone who has gone from  a farm  house with a second-
hand Apple PC that used 5 inch floppy disks to now working from  hom e using the internet to m ake sales while also keeping in contact
with far off friends, I have been well aware of the speed at which technology has grown by leaps and bounds over the last 35, closing in
on 36, years of m y life.
Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, seem s like it is in a tim e sim ilar to NFTs just a few short years ago, or the general internet when I
was a young fellow. People have swallowed so m uch hype about it they are about to burst, and expect it to do absolutely everything, but
people actually com m only fam iliar with it are m uch m ore aware of it’s downsides and pitfalls.
People expect AI system s to be able to do everything and always be right, and that is not the case. And dum ping all the inform ation one
can to teach it does little m ore than contam inate it with the whole of the incorrectness and m isinform ation people have to offer.
This seem s a bubble about to pop, an answer searching for a question, and overall som ething people who put a lot of m oney into without
a pay out are struggling to justify, to sell to the next person so they them selves are not the ones suffering a loss.
I am  not so foolish to say that such system s have no use at all, but for the com m on person it’s uses are m uch m ore narrow and niche than
people selling them  would have us believe. And attem pts to rem ove proper oversight and m ove forward without regard for ethical
concerns only allows those just chasing a quick sell and split to hurt Am ericans.
To that end, I do not see the point of disregarding a previous choice to approach the m atter calm ly and with a level head sim ply to be the
first to a finish-line that isn’t built yet. I strongly feel that before anything else, the approach to AI Developm ent should be assured it is for
the betterm ent of our people, not sim ply to say we m ade som ething bigger and m ore bloated.
In sim ple term s, I say put Ethics, Worker Protections and the Safety and Privacy of m y fellow Am ericans first and forem ost


