PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-xr9u-ghyh
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4599
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Tanner Casey
Em ail:  
General Comment
OpenAI has shown tim e and tim e again that it is a tool used by con-artists and scam m ers, built off of m aterial that it steals from  hard-
working, honest people. Its m odels are trained by scraping im ages from  whatever sources it can, consistently done without the perm ission
of the creators of those im ages. If generative AI like OpenAI cannot function without needing to steal from  the honest work of others, then
it should rightly and properly be doom ed to fail and be destroyed.
This version of "Artificial Intelligence" is just a waste of tim e and resources, and encourages its users to be under-achieving, lazy, and
thoughtless. To enable generative AI to m ore easily com m it the acts of thievery that its foundation is built on is to perpetuate that sam e
laziness. In an era where even critical thinking is at a low, I would hope that we could at least encourage people to put in the effort to
m ake, at bare m inim um , a pretty picture in the absence of a coherent and reasonable thought.
Moreover, when any person or com pany publishes m edia generated with these wasteful "AI" tools, it is now the em blem  of either a lazy
and stupid individual or a cheap product worth avoiding. The nation could only be so kind as to save businesses the willing disgrace of
im plem enting AI-generated im ages in their products and works by weakening and doing away with generative AI altogether.
While this com m ent has contended largely with generative AI as an im age production tool, the track record for its use in other form s has
been unsuccessful because it is a failed concept on a foundational level. Even in Google's im plem entation of AI in its search results, it
consistently will provide blatant m isinform ation or m isunderstand the subject at hand. As a chatbot too, it has only done harm  or has
strayed from  its intended purpose when im plem ented.
Whatever push there is for "Artificial Intelligence" to be used in these various fields, it is not m otivated by the bettering of society but by
greedy businesses that seek only to fatten their wallets at the expense of the public at large.


