PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-rjjt-bb0m
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1717
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Governm ent Agency Type:  State
Governm ent Agency:  One-Utah Responsible AI Com m unity Consortium
General Comment
The attached response to the Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan is subm itted on
behalf of Utah’s Responsible AI Com m unity Consortium , a statewide organization that brings together governm ent, academ ia, industry,
and the com m unity to collectively and sym biotically engage in the responsible developm ent and use of AI to advance discoveries, drive
innovation and econom ic growth, create an AI-savvy workforce, increase AI literacy, and foster societal good across Utah and the
interm ountain west region, as well as nationally and globally. 
--
Manish Parashar, PhD, FAAAS, FACM, FIEEE 
Chief AI Officer
Director, Scientific Com puting and Im aging (SCI) Institute
Chair in Com putational Science and Engineering
Presidential Professor, Kahlert School of Com puting 
University of Utah
Attachments
Utah-RAI-CC-Response to the AI Action Plan RFI
im age


Response to the Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan submitted by Utah’s Responsible AI Community 
Consortium. 
Contributing authors include Penny Atkins and Manish Parashar from the University of 
Utah, Matt Winters from the State Board of Education, and Zach Boyd from the Utah 
Office of AI Policy, supported by other members of the Responsible AI Community 
Consortium.  
DISCLAIMER: This document is approved for public dissemination and contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential information. The government may reuse its contents in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
Introduction  
Recognizing the essential role of artificial intelligence (AI) in national security, economic prosperity, and scientific advancement, and the critical importance of ensuring US 
leadership in AI, the State of Utah is catalyzing an AI-driven innovation ecosystem that brings together partners from government, academia, and industry to drive research and development, foster innovation and entrepreneurship, and create an AI-savvy workforce. This innovation ecosystem builds on three foundational principles: Responsible 
Innovation, Public-Private Partnerships, and Accessible Innovation Infrastructure. 
Utah’s  AI strategy can inform a national priority policy action plan for AI to sustain and 
enhance America’s AI dominance to promote national security, economic competitiveness, and societal wellness and prosperity. This response highlights policies, mechanisms, and experiences underlying Utah’s  blueprint for an AI-enabled future.  
AI Initiatives and Activities across Utah  
Office of AI Policy 
This Utah Office of AI Policy is the first-in-the -nation office for AI policy, regulation, and 
innovation. It aims to strengthen trust in AI activities in Utah through data-driven policy, timely regulatory adjustments, and innovation-enabling regulatory relief. Utah’s  early 
creation of this office signifies its commitment to being at the forefront of AI policy and collaborative regulation. 
The office consults with businesses, academic institutions, and other stakeholders to 
facilitate dialogue on regulatory proposals to foster innovation and safeguard public safety. The office has the authority to craft regulatory mitigation agreements that enable 


the deployment of AI in novel ways. Utah is setting a new standard through these 
proactive measures and leading the nation in AI innovation and regulation. 
Utah State Board of Education  
The Utah State Board of Education (USBE) provides guidance to local education 
agencies (LEAs) through the Artificial Intelligence Framework for Utah P-12 Education: 
Guidance on the Use of AI in Our Schools . This guidance document explores many 
current issues facing students, teachers, and parents in schools across Utah . It applies 
to all students, teachers, staff, administrators, and third parties who develop, implement, or interact with AI technologies used in our education system where permitted by local policy. It covers all AI systems used for education, administration, and operations, 
including, but not limited to, generative AI models, intelligent tutoring systems, 
conversational agents, automation software, and analytics tools. The guidance complements existing policies on technology use, data protection, academic integrity, and student support.  
USBE has a Steering Committee for AI (SCAI) that monitors AI in education for potential 
benefits and to safeguard students and educators from harm created by AI. USBE has hired an AI Education Specialist and supported professional development for teachers 
and administrators statewide through partnerships and grant funding . USBE has also 
supported building and upscaling CI through the Digital Teaching and Learning (DTL) 
grant program, funded by the Utah Legislature. This grant provides any publicly funded 
local education agency with funds to improve infrastructure, pay support staff, and provide hardware and software solutions for classrooms.  
The Utah STEM Action Center supported a co-programmed two-day professional 
development for three cohorts of teachers across the state. The USBE AI in K-12 Education program, funded by Intermountain Healthcare, supports over 2,200 teachers 
in learning about AI and applying it to their classrooms.  
Higher Education 
The Utah System of Higher Education  (USHE) is governed by the Utah Board of Higher 
Education and comprises Utah’s  16 public colleges and universities. Several of these 
universities have developed focused initiatives, centers, and institutes to support AI innovation. Housed within USHE, Talent Ready Utah optimizes efforts made by education 
and industry partnerships to build a highly skilled workforce while providing students with 
increased career and education opportunities. In 2023, Talent Ready Utah funded more than $1.8M in projects to grow Utah’s  deep tech workforce. 


University of Utah (U of U): The One-U Responsible Artificial Intelligence Initiative  (One-
U RAI), launched in 2023 via a $100 million university investment, is led by the U of U’s 
Scientific Computing and Imaging (SCI) Institute. The initiative brings together RAI 
transdisciplinary research expertise, statewide advanced cyberinfrastructure, education and workforce development, partnerships, and community engagement. It aims to 
catalyze responsible AI innovation and application to address scientific and societal grand challenges while promoting fairness, accountability, and transparency. One-U RAI envisions a future where AI is responsibly leveraged to address critical local, regional, and global challenges and to benefit humanity.   Utah State University (USU): The USU Data Science and AI  (DSAI) Center aims to be 
a hub at USU for students, faculty, staff, and external stakeholders interested in data science, machine learning, and AI. The hub’s priorities include fostering faculty 
collaborations across campus, connecting industry partners with faculty, staff, and students, and becoming a state resource in data science and AI research.  
Utah Valley University (UVU): The UVU Applied Artificial Intelligence Institute  focuses 
on integrating generative AI into the university’s academic and administrative programs 
– its ultimate goal is to equip students with the skills necessary to thrive in a rapidly 
evolving job market. The institute provides a living laboratory and model for AI in higher 
education. UVU recently earned the prestigious UNESCO Chair designation to Drive 
Global AI-Powered Education. 
Responsible AI Community Consortium 
Utah’s  Responsible AI Community Consortium  (RAI-CC), catalyzed by U of U’s One-U 
RAI, aims to create a framework where academia, government, industry, and the community collectively and symbiotically engage in the responsible development and use of AI to advance discoveries, drive innovation, create an AI-savvy workforce, increase AI 
literacy, and foster societal good across Utah and the region, as well as nationally and 
globally. Through collaborative efforts, the consortium will develop and test proof of concepts to demonstrate the practical application of responsible AI principles, serving as a bridge between theory and impactful real-world solutions. Central to this mission is the cultivation of AI Ambassadors—leaders who promote responsible AI practices, foster collaboration across sectors, and enhance awareness and understan ding of AI’s societal 
impact. Synergies and collaborations enabled by the RAI-CC framework will naturally catalyze the culture change needed to responsibly advance AI and its uses.  
Utah Education and Telehealth Network (UETN)  
The Utah Education and Telehealth Network  (UETN) is a nationally acclaimed 
organization, unifying the extensive services of the Utah Education Network (UEN) and 


the Utah Telehealth Network (UTN), responsible for a robust infrastructure of broadband 
and broadcast technologies for education and telehealth statewide. UETN’s network links 
over 2,000 K-12 schools, higher education institutions, public libraries, and telehealth sites in the state’s urban, suburban, and rural areas. UEN provides access to tools and free professional development to assist Utah educators in effectively using technology in 
the classroom, including for AI, often leveraging public-private partnerships. For example, 
UEN has supported the rollout of AI tools in all publicly funded Utah schools, including rural schools, through training for teachers and IT professionals.  
Utah - NVIDIA Partnership 
The Utah Governor’s Office of Economic Opportunity, the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives, the President of the Senate, the Office of Artificial Intelligence Policy, the Utah System of Higher Education, and colleges and universities across Utah recently signed a memorandum of understanding with NVIDIA , a global leader in artificial 
intelligence, to strengthen the state’s workforce training and research in AI and advanced 
technology. This strategic partnership will enhance Utah’s  technology-based workforce 
training and economic development and democratize AI access across communities. 
Principles Underlying Utah’s AI Strategy  
The overarching goal of Utah’s  AI strategy is to nucleate 
a unique AI innovation ecosystem based on its foundational principles of Responsible Innovation, 
Public-Private Partnerships, and Accessible Innovation 
Infrastructure supported by an AI-savvy workforce. Education and development resources and practices , 
from K-12 to industry professionals, are needed to equip 
Utahns with the knowledge and skills necessary to deploy and use AI effectively and navigate associated non-technical challenges. 
Responsible Innovation  
Responsible innovation aims to balance the ability to innovate in AI and its uses with the need for policies, regulations, and protections to ensure its responsible advancement. This principle underlies all aspects of the AI innovation ecosystem, including research and innovation, education and workforce development, policy and governance, and 
community engagement. Essential elements of Utah’s  responsible innovation strategy 
are as follows.  
Figure Field 1: Utah’s AI strategy is built 
on three foundational principles: 
Responsible Innovation, Public -Private 
Partnerships, and Accessible 
Innovation Infrastructure, supported by 
a skilled, AI -savvy workforce.  


Learning Laboratory  
Utah’s  Office of Artificial Intelligence Policy oversees the AI learning laboratory program . 
The program aims to create thoughtful regulatory solutions for AI applications while 
encouraging innovation and protecting consumers. It fosters collaboration with Utah-based AI companies and key stakeholders, including industry experts, academics, regulators, and community members. 
Regulatory Mitigation 
Under Title 13, Chapter 72 of the Utah State Code, the Office of Artificial Intelligence 
Policy is authorized to offer regulatory mitigation agreements to Utah-based AI companies. This program is designed to support businesses introducing AI technologies to the marketplace by addressing regulatory challenges on a case-by-case basis. Engaging with the program includes understanding specific use cases and their impacts, exploring possible regulatory relief, signing agreements (examples at https://ai.utah.gov/agreements/), and executing the innovation. Through participation in 
the regulatory mitigation process, companies receive one or more of the following benefits: 
● regulatory exemptions for activities that may benefit the state in the future  ● capped penalties for regulatory violations ● cure periods to address compliance issues without immediate penalties ● safe harbors for adhering to negotiated rules and standards ● regulatory certainty through tailored mitigation agreements. 
Public -private Partnerships  
Public-private partnerships are essential for harnessing AI’s tremendous potential for national security, innovation, and scientific advancement. Industry and academic research complement each other—product advancements and market forces drive the former, while the latter can explore novel approaches and diverse methods.   An AI research and development portfolio that combines industry and academic innovations and informs government policies and regulations through public-private partnerships is critical and an integral part of Utah’s  AI strategy. Specifically, this strategy 
aims to leverage its unique RAI-CC to catalyze public-private partnerships to advance 
responsible AI development and use and bring together member institutions that are actively committed to the following pillars: 
● Research and Innovation: Advance AI research and innovation with an emphasis 
on the responsible, transdisciplinary exploration, development, and application of 
technology. Integrate societal implications to ensure technologies align with moral 
and societal values. 


●Education and Workforce Development: Grow workforce development
resources and practices to equip K-12 and higher education students, researchers,
and industry professionals with the knowledge and skills necessary to deploy anduse AI effectively and navigate its socio-technical challenges.
●Policy and Governance: Advocate for responsible AI practices that are business-
friendly and promote democratization. Collaborate with practitioners at the local,
national, and international levels to help influence and shape the regulatorylandscape and general ecosystem surrounding AI technologies and their use,including the management of intellectual property.
●Community Engagement: Actively engage the community to raise awarenessabout AI and responsible AI practices. Foster a transparent and inclusive dialogueabout the responsible use of AI to ensure that AI technologies benefit society .
Accessible Innovation Infrastructure  
Responsible progress at the current frontiers of AI is tied to access to large amounts of computational power and data to support analyzing data, training new models and verifying their applicability to critical problems, and developing securely and responsibly running new AI-based services. A capable and readily accessible advanced infrastructure ecosystem built on public-private partnerships is essential for driving research and 
innovation and catalyzing entrepreneurship, including serving the early AI development 
needs of small and medium businesses. Training an AI-savvy workforce requires 
education and development resources for K-12, higher education, and industry professionals to equip all Utahns with the knowledge and skills necessary to deploy and use AI effectively and navigate associated non-technical challenges. 
Cyberinfrastructure Innovation Ecosystem 
Utah’s  cyberinfrastructure (CI) ecosystem will integrate computing, storage, and 
networking resources, along with the necessary energy infrastructure, software and data, 
and expertise and support services to leverage cutting-edge AI technologies and support 
all AI researchers, entrepreneurs, practitioners, and educators across the state. This CI 
ecosystem is founded on public-private partnerships and gives Utah a competitive 
advantage, attracting business, spurring economic growth, and providing immediate societal benefits through the responsible use of AI technologies and applications.  The CI 
ecosystem will open new opportunities for advancement across all fields and disciplines, driving research and catalyzing innovation. It will also provide a platform for supporting entrepreneurship, for example, via hosted “learning laboratories” and training an AI-savvy 
workforce.  


Utah Office of Energy Development 
Energy is the foundation on which modern society is built and an essential component of 
an AI infrastructure. When we learned to harness energy, we traded calories spent on subsistence for electrons that unleashed human potential on a scale never seen before. We need significantly more power to meet current and future energy needs. Utah is committed to doubling its reliable energy production in the next 10 years. Operation Gigawatt will focus on four key areas to create an abundance of energy. 
● Increasing transmission capacity so more power can be placed on the grid and
moved to where needed.
● Expanding and developing more energy production. This includes keeping what
we currently have and creating new sustainable sources.
● Enhancing Utah’s  policies to enable clean, reliable energy like nuclear and
geothermal.
● Investing in Utah innovation and research that aligns with our energy policies.
Geothermal and nuclear energy are promising new energy resources the state is 
investigating. 
Suggested AI Policy Actions  
Based on Utah’s  AI strategy and experiences from its unique AI innovation ecosystem for 
AI, we recommend policy actions. These suggestions build on the foundational principles of Responsible Innovation (RI) , Public-Private Partnerships (PPP), and Accessible 
Innovation Infrastructure (AII). These suggested actions are aimed at fostering US 
leadership in responsible AI and AI-drive economic growth:   
● Create a federal learning laboratory to provide a sandbox environment in which
companies can deploy novel AI applications with minimal risk of regulatoryconsequences. The sandbox program could facilitate shared understanding andnorming around AI governance in particular applications. Incentivize and fundpublic-private partnerships for AI development, research, translation , and
application (RI, PPP).
● Empower state regulatory experiments and provide flexibility on regulations in AI-
related areas to enable innovation, particularly in areas where there is partial
federal preemption, such as financial services and healthcare; develop the
framework for states to engage nationally and provide policy support and bestpractices around AI, including AI rollouts, data privacy, education, andsafeguarding sensitive data (RI, AII).
● Promote the development of consensus AI standards and best practices through
public-private partnerships; clarify copyright and intellectual property policies andregulations to support continued AI innovation (RI, PPP).
● Prioritize the deployment of a widely accessible, state-of-the-art national AI
cyberinfrastructure ecosystem that leverages growing private-sector investments


and federates state and institutional investments in compute, data, software, and 
expertise; develop a national strategy and policy for managing and sharing AI-ready data; ensure scalable support services and access to expertise to ensure its broad and effective use (RI, PPP, AII).  
● Stimulate responsible energy production to support growth in technological
development through permitting reform (AII).
● Give states the freedom to leverage federal funding (e.g., block grants) for
restructuring education and training, including adult education, and to alloworganizations to provide effective professional development to upskill all layers ofeducational organizations (RI, AII).


