PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-yf3d-8neu
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5269
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Artificial intelligence has no place in building a just, fair, and dem ocratic nation. It is built by training datasets with data stolen from  hard-
working Am ericans, scraping their personal inform ation, professional works and the fruits of their labor without their consent. The current
m odels of AI operate by thievery, in which the people that create the inform ation used in its training are not com pensated, yet the
conglom erates and tech industrialists who propagate these system s in com paratively few num bers gain im m ense wealth.
The proliferation of AI is an attack against the working class of Am erica and m ust be countered. It is also an attack on the intelligence of
our population. We let AI do the work, whether it be art, m ath, or writing. The skills of our population atrophy because we are too lazy to
put in effort to enrich and train ourselves. 
The John F. Kennedy quote 'We choose to go to the m oon in this decade, and do the other things, not because they are easy but because
they are hard' resonates particularly strongly here. AI is the tool of the feeble m inded, the weak-willed and the sinful sloth.
According to United Nations, US News and World Report, and the University of PA, various surveys and research consistently reports
the United States ranks around 31st out of nearly 200 countries in education. That's in the sam e weight class com parable with countries
we have so arrogantly looked down upon as 'second world' including Hungary, Turkey, Argentina and so on. 
We are in an education crisis. Teachers are leaving the profession in record num bers due to a lack of support and a lack of resources. AI
will not replace them , and if we ever develop the asinine idea that m achines could ever hope to achieve such a thing, expect that 31st
ranking to plum m et even further. AI is notorious for inbreeding, sucking up AI-generated data into its own training sets and creating even
m ore twisted, useless detritus that poisons search results, inform ation sources and our very culture. Our culture dictates dem ands to our
m achines, and do not take com m ands from  them . We'd do well to rem em ber this. 
Real Am erican brains and Am erican m uscle, flesh and blood, took us to the m oon. This useless, hollow AI facsim ile will drive us into the
ground.
Attached is an exam ple of AI posters being proliferated in classroom s. Teachers, burdened with lim ited tim e, resources and support, and
worse, low quality teachers hired as a result of degenerating standards, have been caught using this. This poster I have included is one of
the top results for lung diagram  and it has the audacity to claim  it is suitable for education. It reflects nothing that has existed in the history
of biology and its labeling is entirely gibberish and nonsensical.
Im agine this being applied to m athem atics, the general sciences, history. Think those are too good for you and trade schools are m ore
im portant than higher fields of education? Im agine som e fool wiring your house or repairing your car with one of these 'inform ational'
graphics as their guide. 
Those of you who fear China and their AI boom ? Understand that these sam e things will apply to them , and their pursuit of AI will doom
them  just as m uch as it will doom  us should we continue this pointless post nuclear arm s race. If you fear this being weaponized by the
Chinese, then don't. Allow them  to destroy them selves with it, for if it is the tool of the enem y, then we do not need it. 
We will not use it.


Attachments
ailungslop


