PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-wt7o-ooq4
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4044
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
As a graphic designer and artist, AI has personally affected m e. 
Far too m any art portfolio and hosting websites have opted m any artists into AI scraping without their consent, leaving m any designers
and artists fearing their work being stolen/scrapped without consent or respect for their boundaries. 
AI has repeatedly overused power to m aintain it while its m akers have no respect for copyright laws, royalty agreem ents, or the work of
artists by stealing contracted work under NDA's and other legally binding contracts. This opens the field for an upsurge in litigation and
lawsuits.
Businesses for artists and designers have becom e m ore difficult to be hired, with businesses opting for AI over real designers who have
worked hard to polish their skills while providing their best services, all in the nam e of "quick" products of poor quality created by stealing.
There is also the fact that the AI m akers have claim ed they could not "pay" artists any royalties as they claim  they have "no way" to source
them  and yet these program s need only the text prom pt of the nam e of an artist from  social m edia to copy and im plem ent AI to take their
style. This is nothing but theft, ram pant and unchecked, and it will continue to get worse.
AI is not the next paragon of hum an ingenuity. This will com pletely destroy entire sectors of the job m arket. But even then, AI creators
will not be content to stay in one place. Left unchecked, AI will spread to other industries and ultim ately be the death knell for our
econom y and our country. This is a technology we still do not have a full and proper understanding of. AI creators can only see the profit
and not the consequences of what they're doing. It will not stop until it consum es every facet of our daily lives.


