PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: February 26, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 7m -r2wr-k10r
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1009
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Kevin O'Nei ll 
Email: 
General Comment
In m y view 5 Stages are needed for an AI plan to be successful:
Exploring phase - where having an understanding of AI basics is learned. Most end users are not aware that prom pts they enter into
https://www.chatgpt.com  or https://copilot.m icrosoft.com  are generative prom pts. For any kind of core and key autom ation, plugins along
with a series of carefully crafted prom pts are needed as well. Also, end users need to know that prom pts they enter can be deleted from  a
said user profile when applicable. Additionally, AI is m ade-up of the core concepts which should be part of any education: algorithm s,
autonom ous system s, m achine learning, supervised learning, unsupervised learning, reinforcem ent learning, deep learning and fuzzy logic.
Finally, knowing the capabilities, lim itations and ethical considerations of the AI based system  being utilized is param ount.
Planning phase - actively accessing, defining and planning so that specific m easurable objectives are m et. Knowing what one wants to
m easure regarding how tim e is saved from  AI is a m ajor part of this phase. Additionally having key perform ance indicators and m eeting
them  is key as well. Exam ple: how does AI help regarding defect rates helping with quality, how does AI help regarding a planned to done
ratio for predictability and finally how does AI help with happiness for stability.
Form alizing phase - socializing and executing on the AI strategy plan. Have concepts structured and docum ented into official actionable
plans. Currently AI is still evolving but even so, it needs to have core aspects m ore standardized especially around the use of tem plates,
checklists and protocols.
Scaling phase - delivering both increm ental and new values regarding AI aspects. No m atter what, an AI plan is going to have to include
the handling of a larger workload and workforce. It needs to have the proper infrastructure im provem ent as needed as well as the proper
process optim ization for the autom ating of repetitive tasks, workflows and new practices that evolve.
Realizing phase - having consistent AI value across the environm ent. Be able to handle the execution of plans accounting for resource
utilization, m onitoring and control and finally quality assurances. If AI does not have consistency or have value, then it will not fulfill its
usefulness.


