PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zaco-l7y2
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5690
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Julian Ferguson
General Comment
Any AI plan should included legal protections for all copyrighted works (including literature, visual art and m usic) from  being used as
training data for AI m odels without their respective copyright holders’ consent. AI is not intelligent, despite its nam e, and is unable to
m ake inform ed decisions about how to use copyrighted works in a m anner consistent with fair use laws. We have already seen m any
instances where AI spits out an alm ost 1:1 copy of copyrighted works, and allowing it to train in copyrighted m aterial would sim ply
provide a legal buffer for entities to profit off of existing works with im punity.
This plan should also prohibit the use of AI from  being used for m aking any decisions regarding hiring/firing of em ployees, whether in
state/federal governm ent or the private sector. Again, AI is not intelligent, and cannot be held liable for m anagem ent decisions. We have
recently seen it m ake very unfortunate m istakes when used for DOGE departm ent cuts, term inating em ployees or contracts based on
keywords the technology is unable to evaluate in context. Hum an beings should always be chiefly responsible for the handling of other
hum an beings.
Finally, AI should be kept out of education. Generative AI should not be used in the process of teaching children to write or produce
m usic or artwork. Recent studies conducted by Microsoft have confirm ed that use of AI im pairs critical thinking, which is entirely
antithetical to the m ission of education. I have read som e very disturbing stories about com panies proposing the use of AI chatbots as
counselors or therapists for students, which would be devastating to their m ental health. Unchecked deploym ent of AI in childcare and
education could have a disastrous effect on the next generation of Am erican workers.
I would also like to add that our leaders should interrogate the notion that the US needs to com pete with the rest of the world in the field
of AI at all. None of the com panies pushing the technology have provided any convincing argum ent to justify its existence. It can’t replace
hum an program m ers, for instance, as it is too error-prone to be anything but a liability without hum an workers to check its output, which is
far less efficient than sim ply hiring hum an coders to do the work them selves. For the sam e reason, AI can’t be used to responsibly
generate inform ative or persuasive writing - there was a prom inent news story last year about a fam ily that was poisoned because they
bought an AI-generated book on foraging m ushroom s. It can’t generate com m ercially viable art, literature or m usic, because no hum an
consum er is interested in art generated by a prom pt they could type into a m odel them selves - they go to these form s of entertainm ent
specifically for their hum an elem ent.
Given that AI has failed to generate profit in the private sector, it is difficult to see any grants or contracts that the governm ent m ight
provide as anything other than a bailout for failing businesses. I would think that any adm inistration that claim s to be focused on reducing
the deficit or restoring us to a m eritocracy would want to stay far away from
AI. Perhaps the way to stay com petitive with Russia or China in the AI space would be to let them  waste billions m ore dollars on it while
we surpass them  in the industries they’re neglecting.


