PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-h60a-ylr1
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1597
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: O. Ericson  
Email: 
General Comment
As a sm all business owner, I believe that AI is an incredible tool that could be used to great ends in assisting Am ericans. AI can predict
illnesses like cancer before they m anifest and tell people what lifestyle changes they need m ake to prevent them ; AI can scan through
coding and m ake suggestions, spot errors, etc; it can be used as an extra set of “eyes” for copy-editing; and so m uch m ore.
My m ajor concerns with AI are as follows: 
AI is a great asset and tool to boost productivity, but we need to consider the public cost of com pletely replacing m iddle-class jobs with
AI. Replacing jobs with AI should be strictly regulated for the sam e reason that illegal im m igrants should not be able to take jobs from
hardworking Am ericans. Our econom y relies on the citizens’ ability to live independently and spend frivolously, but citizens cannot do that
if their highly specialized positions are being replaced with AI. Even worse, m any experienced, intelligent, hard-working Am ericans have
had to settle for getting on welfare and working at Walm art to scrape by because their skilled corporate jobs were replaced with AI, so
now the m oney that those corporations saved is being shouldered by the general population instead.
Second, Any AI m odels that rely on datasets, data scraping, etc should acknowledge and respect IP/copyright law. This has been the
case with AI in the tech industry for decades; any piece of code added to an AI coding m odel m ust belong to the com pany or the
com pany m ust have a license to use it, otherwise it’s considered theft. Now that AI’s capabilities and usage have expanded beyond tech
labs, the sam e laws need to be expanded to include all AI m odels, including generative AI. Rights holders should not only be able to
choose whether their data is scraped for AI, but should also be able to license their data out to AI m odels or corporations should they
choose. This will help protect the integrity of sm all businesses and rights holders all over the country.
Third, there m ust be m ore com prehensive copyright protections for Am erican copyright holders against big tech and foreign m alefactors.
This has always been an issue, but in the age of data scraping for AI it’s im perative that all US citizens and copyright holders are protected
from  anyone who m ight attem pt to steal, profit from , or censor our work. For exam ple, Google should not be allowed to use AI to censor
publishers just because the Google executives don’t like them , and com panies like Tencent or Hasbro should not be allowed to feed an
Am erican creator’s work to an AI in order to copy their style without hiring or paying them . Any com pany or country that utilizes
generative AI but refuses to engage in transparent, paid use of potentially copyrighted content should be treated with im punity. Am erican
content is valuable, Am erican labor is valuable, and thus Am erican creators should be protected from  theft worldwide.
And lastly, energy consum ption is a m ajor issue. Not all AI is inefficient, but m ost generative AI m odels use an ungodly am ount of energy
to run, and we don’t have infinite coal and gas to burn. In order to becom e a world leader in AI, the USA also needs to invest in m ore
efficient, m ore prolific energy sources—specifically geotherm al and nuclear energy. Geotherm al energy plants have nearly twice the
capacity factor as coal plants, and geotherm al energy itself is convenient because you can access it anywhere. But nuclear energy, at over
90% capacity factor, is going to be the gam e-changer. Out of all types of power plants, nuclear power plants produce the m ost energy
throughout the year by far. But our enem ies have noticed this too; China is rapidly developing nuclear power plants and spending a lot on
nuclear energy research, and at this rate they’ll be outpacing our energy outputs by 2030. If we want to beat a world leader in this energy-
consum ing tech, we cannot let China overtake us in energy production.


