PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 13, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 87-t9xp-1f1o
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1225
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Modern Logic, LLC
General Comment
To Whom  It May Concern,
I represent Modern Logic, a Minnesota-based digital technology com pany that works in highly advanced technology such as m obile apps,
cloud com puting, and AI. We are strong proponents of AI, but we also believe that the best value will be created through effective
public/private partnerships. 
We advocate for a balanced regulatory approach that keeps business and societal needs in m ind. Given the transform ative nature of AI in
every aspect of society, som e regulation is needed in areas that will support the population as it undergoes significant transition. While we
as businesses focus on growth, econom ic opportunity, and em ploym ent, we m ust rely on m eaningful support from  legislators and
regulators to provide an environm ent where we can thrive. This includes public funding of re-education, working with public and private
colleges to ensure the workforce is prepared or re-trained, and safety support to ensure that bad actors don't dam age the econom y (or
lives) with poorly tested technology.
From  a regulatory approach, working with those who understand the technology to regulate its use instead of regulating the technology
itself will create the best outcom e for everyone. For exam ple, regulating an individual technology (such as LLMs) will ultim ately fail due to
the rapid advancem ent in the field. However, regulation that targets the use of AI in specific contexts and settings and subjects m ore
m ission-critical or life-critical applications to additional scrutiny will protect everyone while not overregulating less m ission-critical use
cases.
Moderate, m eaningful, and pragm atic regulation of AI can create econom ic opportunity for everyone in the US. In particular,
collaboration of governm ent, private businesses, and universities will create the best outcom es for everyone.
“This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be 
reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.”


