PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-if2y-ywcf
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2173
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
The act of letting "A.I." flourish on its own to help "Enhance Am erica's AI Dom inance" would do nothing but hinder the U.S. and the m any
creatives across the country who would suffer from  so-called innovation in the field. Many creatives I know personally have been affected
only negatively by the growth of A.I. creations, be they im ages or written pieces. Cutting out the m iddlem an of this equation would not
lead to m ore econom ic prosperity as suggested, but instead lead to less creatives, less innovation, less people with jobs and thus worse
econom y. By putting people out of jobs with "A.I.", m any would not have the m oney to be able to survive in the current econom ic clim ate
of the U.S. due to recent econom ic declines. This would lead to even less consum ers, and thus com panies would have an ever-decreasing
pool of custom ers to advertise to, starting a collapse from  the inside. The encouragem ent of A.I. to progress on its current path would
m ake m isinform ation run ram pant with newly generated false A.I. m isinform ation, such as what is currently occurring on websites such as
'X'. This m isinform ation, "A.I." generated videos, and im ages could lead to national security risks unlike those ever seen as entire
docum ents and situations with photographic evidence could be created out of thin air. This would m ake verifying things as real even harder
than they are in the m odern day, and as is it is very hard to search anything online without finding thousands of fake im ages m ade with no
point to them . It is, in this current "A.I." clim ate, where facts can be m ade up with accom panying evidence. At what point will the line be
so hard to draw between real im ages and "A.I." fakes to where that fake im ages are used in court to accuse innocent victim s?


