PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-ykcn-92zn
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5113
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
This is a violation of national security as artificial intelligence (AI) is built upon theft and collection of content these com panies do not own.
Artificial Intelligence is overhyped by com panies and investors from  Silicon Valley that solely want to m ake a profit and does not care
about the end user. Anything you say and/or post on the Internet can and has been used for m alicious reasons. This request will only m ake
the situation worse for every Am erican. Artificially generated videos and photos will start to becom e indistinguishable from  those m ade by
hum ans and can lead to a spread of m isinform ation never seen before. Students already rely heavily on OpenAI services to cheat on
writing assignm ents, people can generate fake videos to prove a point, som eone can m ake adult and/or violent content of any person they
want, regardless if the person they are m aking a video about consented or not.(For exam ple, som eone could have an AI generate a video
of a co-worker, neighbor and/or fam ous celebrity acting inappropriately and claim  it as the truth.) Artificial Intelligence holds no place in
the future of the United States. As it stands currently, AI has, and will continue to be a tool used by bad actors for m alicious purposes as
AI steals from  the livelihood of not only m e but m illions of Am ericans and profits off of that theft. Many people have used artificial
intelligence to break laws and far too few have actually been punished for it. Do not believe the lies the developers and investors of these
com panies are telling you. Artificial Intelligence is an overhyped fad that relies on the theft of data from  Am ericans and is a tool that can be
used for copyright infringem ent, harassm ent, m isinform ation and cheating just to nam e a few. If you don't think AI will be used against you,
you are wrong. All it takes is one bad actor to generate a video of you doing som ething you've never done and spreading it as the truth.
AI doesn't care and doesn't discrim inate.


