PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-ktm j-0atw
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1658
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Abigail Murray   
Email: 
General Comment
I am  a citizen of the United States who wants to support Am erican businesses and Am erican excellence on the global stage. And I oppose
the current developm ents in the BIG AI industry, which here in the US is dom inated by a technocrats elite from  silicon valley (like Google
or Sam  Altm an).
There are m ajor concerns about the use of copyrighted m aterial in the training data used to power these AI m odels. Sam  Altm an of
OpenAI has adm itted any hypothetical AI developm ent can only occur through the use of copyrighted work. So far, m ajor AI com panies
have broken copyright law, and abused the goodwill of sm all artists and writers who include their work for free on the internet, as well as
the copyrighted work of m ajor com panies which occur behind paywalls. These com panies did do knowing it was likely illegal, but not
caring enough to actually follow it. I am  an artist, and I have to ne careful when using copyrighted work to ensure I am  not violating any
laws. It horrified m e that large m onopolistic com panies like Google or Facebook are developing AI m odels based on copyrighted work,
benefiting financially from  that work, reducing the value of m y work by com peting in the sam e m arket, while giving m e no choice is
whether m y data can be used to train these m odels. Thus has discouraged m e from  creating new work, for fear m y creative works will be
stolen without fair com pensation. 
My first recom m endation would be to affirm  the ruling AI training data is NOT fair use of such m aterials. AI com panies should pay rights
holders for the use of this data. Users should be able to opt out of allowing their data to be used by these com panies. 
There is also a serious concern with the high energy consum ption by AI m odels. I live in a state where data centers are being proposed,
and It concerns m e greatly that these com panies require such high energy use to run these m odels. I would advice that protections for
ordinary energy gonsum ers be put into place to prevent these com panies from  siphoning off energy from  generators or distribution
locations, am d m aking energy availability m ore insecure for the average Am erican. 
In addition, while I am  m orally opposed to recent AI developm ents, I worry efforts to ensure Am ericsn dom inance in AI m ight be a fool-
hearty effort to prop up bloated and inefficient com panies. The Chinese DeepSeek AI appears to outperform  US developm ents, despite
the billions of private capital already funneled into these com panies. From  m y understanding, this is because Chinese developers had to do
m ore with less; they had to work with fewer AI chips and on older software. If we are to com pete on the globak stage, I believe we
should take a page from  Chim a's success here 
The Trum p adm inistration should encourage these com panies to operate a bit m ore like the m any hardworking sm all businesses across
Am erica: do m ore with less, innovate based on lim ited m aterials, and get CREATIVE. Am erican AI cannot dom inate globally if it exists as
a bloated, old white elephant.


