PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3qy1-2sl5
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9391
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Jack Ratti 
General Comment
From: Jack Ratti
Profession: Freelance Artist and Animator, On line Influencer
Giving AI companies, Tech Giants like Google and Microso ft, Apple and Meta t he rights to use everyday American's art a nd content 
posted o nline is something I am ada mantly against. Generative AI stea ls off the back of hardworking and well meaning peop le. AI systems 
need the data of normal peop le to e ven be ab le to function and most have acq uired their data without any sort of per mission or  
compensation. If co mpanies are a llowed to steal from Americans online without consequence then it will be a sad day for our country and 
for art ists every where. P lease protect cop yright and the livelihoods of millions of peop le. Unfettered AI would be a major do uble 
standard a nd show the abso lute disregard corporate a merica and our government has for its every day c itizens.
Because of t his, I'm ask ing that this administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator co ntent to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on e nsuring a fair marketp lace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators a nd everyday Americans give effective consent, so t hat we can dec ide when and where 
our work is used by AI systems.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a rob ust licensing marketp lace, so t hat the incentive to create for small businesses is 
preser ved. O ur work has immense eco nomic value, so t he value generated by t hat work should accr ue to the original creators, not just 
Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should req uire tra nspare ncy from Big Tech co mpanies, req uiring them to d isclose what material is in their 
training datasets, a nd label what content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or a nti-AI. I am co nsistently impressed by t he capab ilities of t hese AI systems, and find them incredibly useful for 
many things. But we should not sacr ifice the hard work of hundreds of t housands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by re writing 
copyright law.
Thank you for the opport unity to co mment on these importa nt issues.


