PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 12, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 86-832a-qn73
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1158
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Cham ber of Progress
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
FOR SHARING_ Cham ber Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan


March 12, 2025 
Networking and Informa tion T echnology Research and Development (NITRD) National 
Coordination Office (NCO), National Science Foundation  
Submitted by: Todd O’Boyle, Vice President - Technology P olicy,  Chamber of Progress 
Re: Request for Information on the Development of an Arti ﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action 
Plan 
Dear National Science Foundation,  
On behalf of Chamber of Progress—a tech industry association supporting public policies 
to build a more inclusive country in which all people bene ﬁt from technological 
advances—we appreciate the opportunity to share this response to your Request for 
Information on the Development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan, 90 FR 9088.  
In developing its AI Action Plan, the White House has a pivotal opportunity to reinforce 
U.S. dominance in artiﬁcial intelligence and establish a regulatory framework that 
ensures all Americans bene ﬁt from the economic and societal progress AI innovation 
promises. A balanced, growth-oriented approach to AI regulation is essential to fostering 
a competitive and dynamic AI ecosystem—where both large and small ﬁrms can thrive, 
market forces drive technological breakthroughs, and consumers can access diverse AI 
models and applications. To achieve this, the administration should prioritize a regulatory 
environment that minimizes unnecessary burdens while making targeted strategic 
investments in key components of the AI value chain. 
We are encouraged by the White House’s shift away from the, at- times, overly 
prescriptive regulatory approach previously pursued by the Biden Administration, which 
risked stiﬂing the pace of AI progress. However, as the administration recalibrates its 
approach to AI governance, it must exercise caution to avoid unintended consequences 
that could hamper U.S. competitiveness. To this end, our comment advances the following 
recommended actions for inclusion in the White House’s AI Action Plan: (1) Take a 
light-touch approach to regulating AI models; (2) Employ an “all of the above” energy 
strategy that harnesses both renewable and nonrenewable energy sources to support 
US datacenters; (3) Support critical research at leading US institutions and strengthen 


the STEM pipeline; (4) Avoid imposing regulations that seek to enforce ideological 
neutrality in foundation models.  
1. Don’t repeat the mistakes of the Biden Administration: Take a light-touch approach to
regulating foundation models.
The Biden Administration’s heavy-handed use of executive authority risked creating 
excessive compliance burdens that could slow progress and consolidate AI development 
among a small group of major ﬁrms. In crafting its AI Action Plan, the Trump 
Administration should focus on striking a strategic equilibrium between mitigating risks 
and leveraging the transformative potential of AI technologies. The White House should 
adopt a "light-touch" approach to AI regulation, prioritizing transparency, voluntary 
standards, and market-driven solutions.  
Speci ﬁcally, in replacing the Biden Administration’s executive order, the current 
administration should avoid using compute-based thresholds as a proxy for risk. 
Training compute is an imperfect and largely ineffective proxy for model risk. Research 
shows that the relationship between compute and risk is shifting as smaller models  
regularly outperform larger ones.1 China’s recent release of DeepSeek provides a timely 
example of a model that can achieve high performance with radically less compute than 
most frontier models.2 Further, different modalities (language models, code models, 
biological models, etc.) often require different levels of compute.3 Imposing regulatory 
thresholds based solely on compute levels risks disproportionately penalizing certain AI 
modalities, while implementing multiple thresholds could introduce perverse incentives, 
enabling developers to strategically optimize for compliance rather than meaningful risk 
mitigation. For the U.S. to remain competitive in AI, developers must have the ﬂexibility to experiment 
with various strategies, from scaling compute to optimizing architectures, data 
efficiency, and algorithmic innovation. Rigid compute-based thresholds risk privileging 
certain model designs over others and creating barriers to research and development in 
the ﬁeld.  
Additionally, the White House should refrain from invoking the Defense Production Act 
(DPA) to mandate AI developers share sensitive information. While national security and 
public interest are paramount, using the DPA in this context could undermine the trust 
between developers, their partners, and the public. Forced information sharing without 
proper safeguards could lead to unintended consequences, including an erosion of public 
3 Sara Hooker p. 16. “On the Limitations of Compute Thresholds as a Governance Strategy”. arXiv 
(July 2024).  2 Peter Hanbury et al.”DeepSeek: A Game Changer in AI Efficiency?” Bain & Company (February 
2025).  1 Sara Hooker p. 5. “On the Limitations of Compute Thresholds as a Governance Strategy”. arXiv 
(July 2024).  


conﬁdence in AI technologies. Compelling companies to disclose proprietary algorithms 
could expose them to intellectual property theft and create opportunities for misuse by 
competitors or bad actors, potentially disincentivizing investment in AI development and 
undermining innovation.  Mandating disclosures through the DPA could also  impose 
substantial costs on AI developers, including investments in compliance infrastructure 
and specialized personnel.4 Coupled with the opportunity costs of regulatory compliance, 
these burdens could put U.S. developers at a strategic disadvantage in the global AI race. 
2. Employ an “all of the above” strategy to meet the energy demands of AI development.
In 2023, U.S. data centers consumed more than 4% of total electricity, and this proportion 
is expected to rise to 9% by 2030, far outpacing the 0.5% increase per year that utility 
providers typically anticipate.5 To meet the growing demand while ensuring reliability and 
affordability,  the U.S. must adopt an “all-of-the-above” energy strategy that leverages a 
diverse mix of energy sources. This includes expanding renewable generation—such as 
wind, solar, and hydroelectric power while maintaining a stable baseload supply through 
nuclear energy and the responsible use of fossil fuels.  Research suggests no one energy source alone can meet the expected demand. 
Renewable energy sources like solar and wind are best positioned to meet near-term 
energy demand because they can be deployed more quickly than other options. In 
contrast, nuclear and natural gas projects have signiﬁcantly longer lead times, requiring 
years to develop and bring online.6 A diverse energy mix that embraces renewables also 
supports a more robust and reliable power grid. According to the Paci ﬁc Northwest 
National Laboratory, renewables “support distributed energy systems that lessen power 
demand on the grid, lower costs, and enhance the reliability and security of critical 
infrastructure.”7 
The White House should begin by reversing its freeze on renewable energy permits, 
including the pause on wind projects, dropping tariffs on building materials, and avoid 
imposing restrictions in the future.  Nearly 2,000 gigawatts of solar, wind, and storage 
projects are currently awaiting transmission interconnection, and experts estimate that 
the White House’s pause on wind permitting could impact more than half of projects in 
development.8,9 At a time when maximizing all available energy resources is critical to 
9Jael Holzman. “Trump’s Wind Order Could Hit ‘More Than Half’ of New Projects”. Heatmap 
(January 2025).  8 Sam Newell et al. “A Wide Array of Resources is Needed to Meet Growing U.S. Energy Demand”. 
ConservAmerica (February 2025). 7 Paciﬁc Northwest National Laboratory. “What is Renewable Integration?” PNNL.gov.   6 Sam Newell et al. “A Wide Array of Resources is Needed to Meet Growing U.S. Energy Demand”. 
ConservAmerica (February 2025). 5 Nancy W. Stauffer. “The multi-faceted challenge of powering AI”. MIT Energy Initiative (January 
2025). 4 Ashley Mehra p. 10. “Executive Orders on AI: How to (Lawfully) Apply the Defense Production Act”. 
Mercatus Center (January 2025). 


meeting the rising power demands of AI, this permitting freeze has signi ﬁcantly stalled 
progress. Meanwhile, China has nearly tripled its nuclear capacity over the past 
decade.10 The U.S. cannot afford to selectively prioritize certain energy sources over 
others—it must embrace a balanced, forward-looking energy strategy to remain 
competitive. 
The White House must also champion energy permitting reform and direct Congress to 
pass bipartisan legislation, like the Energy Permitting Reform Act of 2024 (EPRA). 
Streamlining the permitting landscape through the EPRA’s judicial review reforms, 
expedited leasing, renewable energy expansion, and mining regulation improvements will 
remove bureaucratic barriers and ensure a more efficient energy supply to support 
competitive AI development. The White House should ensure that permitting reform 
remains an inclusive, pragmatic effort that prioritizes energy expansion across all 
sources rather than allowing policy preferences to create unnecessary roadblocks. A 
balanced approach that streamlines approvals for both traditional and renewable energy 
projects is essential. Lastly, tariffs on building materials only drive up the cost of 
construction and squander American leadership in AI; the Administration should drop 
them forthwith. 
3. Support critical research at leading US institutions and strengthen the STEM
pipeline.Federal research funding is essential for driving innovation, supporting long-term, 
high-risk projects that may not attract immediate private sector investment, and 
strengthening the STEM talent pipeline through grants and education programs. The 
National Science Foundation (NSF) advances these objectives by allocating over $700 
million annually to AI research and development.11 Fundamental computing research 
disproportionately relies on the NSF for funding, with the agency supporting  80% of 
research in this ﬁeld at U.S. institutions.12 NSF-funded fundamental computing research 
laid the foundation for generative AI and continues to drive critical advancements in 
algorithms, machine learning, high-performance computing, and AI hardware.  
The White House should reverse cuts imposed on the NSF, including recent layoffs, and 
ensure the NSF is adequately funded and staffed to support critical AI research. Last 
year’s 8% budget cut, recent budget freezes, aggressive federal downsizing, and 
uncertainty about further budget reductions have already disrupted grant funding and 
hindered the agency’s ability to support key research initiatives. Further, cuts undermine 
the STEM pipeline, as the opportunity to participate in NSF-funded research plays a 
12 Computing Research Association. "NSF Budget Cuts Would Put the Future of U.S. Innovation and 
Security at Risk”. CRA Bulletin (February 2025).  11 U.S. National Science Foundation. “Arti ﬁcial Intelligence” NSF.gov.  10 Sean Wolfe. “China has nearly tripled its nuclear capacity in 10 years”. Power Engineering (May 
2024).  


frequent and important role in attracting students to graduate programs.13 This comes at 
a time when China has already surpassed the U.S. in terms of its share of the world's top 
1% of cited scienti ﬁc papers and is on track to match the U.S. in research and 
development funding by 2030.14 According to a database maintained by the Australian 
Strategic Policy Institute, China already outperforms the U.S. in high-impact research 
output in ﬁve of six key AI-related categories.15 Failing to restore and preserve NSF 
funding risks further widening this gap.  
The White House’s AI Action Plan should also call on Congress to expand and codify the 
NSF’s National AI Research Resource (NAIRR) to ensure its long-term impact beyond its 
2024 expiration. The NAIRR is critical for democratizing AI development, providing 
researchers outside of major tech companies with access to cutting-edge computing 
infrastructure, high-quality datasets, and advanced tools that would otherwise be out of 
reach. By broadening access, NAIRR fosters competition and accelerates AI innovation 
across diverse sectors. Its pilot projects are already demonstrating the resource’s value, 
driving breakthroughs in synthetic clinical data for cancer research, digital modeling of 
the U.S. hydrologic cycle, and AI-powered education tools.16 Without congressional 
action, the U.S. risks losing this vital infrastructure.   
Finally, to advance the administration’s goal of placing American workers at the center of 
AI policy and ensuring they beneﬁt from its advancements, the White House’s AI Action 
Plan should prioritize investments in AI-related education at the community college and 
K-12 levels. Community colleges need funding for reskilling and upskilling programs that
prepare workers for AI-driven industries, while K-12 initiatives should focus on AI
literacy and skill development. States like Massachusetts17 and North Carolina18 are
already partnering with businesses and universities to expand AI-focused education,
demonstrating the potential of these programs. Federal support can scale these efforts
nationwide, equipping a broader workforce to succeed in an AI-powered economy.4. The White House should avoid imposing additional regulations to enforce ideological
neutrality in AI models and instead should prioritize fostering robust competition and
consumer choice.
We urge the White House to resist the temptation to advance any additional regulations 
18 Alli Lindenberg. “Community colleges expand programming to prepare students for careers in 
AI”. EdNC (January 2025).  17 Cyndi Reitmeyer. “MIT Launches Exciting AI Program for Grades 3-12 Nationwide”. MIT Open 
Learning (April 2022).  16 National Arti
ﬁcial Intelligence Research Resource Pilot. “Demonstration Projects”. 
NAIRRPilot.org.   15 Australian Strategic Policy Institute. “Critical Technology Tracker”. ASPI (2025). 14 Jeff Tollefson & Richard Van Noorden. “The US is the world’s science superpower — but for how 
long?”.  Nature (October 2024).  13 Kathryn Palmer. “Researchers ‘Shocked and Disappointed’ After NSF Budget Cuts”. Inside Higher 
Ed (May 2024).  


that seek to enforce a standard of ideological neutrality on AI models. Such regulations 
risk imposing compliance burdens similar to those required under the European Union’s 
AI Act, which directs developers to conduct extensive audits, maintain detailed 
documentation, and implement costly bias-mitigation measures. A report prepared for 
the European Commission, written by CEPS, ICF, and Wavestone, estimates compliance 
costs associated with adhering to the  EU’s AI Act to equal 17.22% of the total cost to build 
the AI tool.19 Whether aimed at enforcing a standard of nondiscrimination based on 
demographics or political ideology, such regulations will likely produce the same 
outcome: cumbersome regulatory hurdles that stiﬂe innovation and favor large, 
well-resourced companies that can absorb the added costs. 
Instead of exercising regulatory authority to mandate desired outcomes, the White 
House should support policies that encourage a broad spectrum of AI model 
development. By taking a light-touch approach to the regulation of foundation models and 
democratizing access to critical AI resources, the White House can support market 
diversity and empower consumers with more choices, reducing the risk of a centralized 
or overly controlled AI ecosystem. 
In closing, we appreciate the opportunity to contribute to the development of the AI 
Action Plan and urge the White House to embrace a strategy that reinforces U.S. 
leadership in AI while fostering a dynamic, competitive, and innovative ecosystem. An 
approach that prioritizes strategic investments, minimizes regulatory overreach, and 
champions a balanced energy policy will ensure that AI development remains a driver of 
economic growth and national security.  
Sincerely, 
Todd O’Boyle 
Senior Director, Technology Policy 
Cham ber of Progress 
19 European Commission. Directorate-General for Communications Networks, Content and 
Technology. “Study to support an impact assessment of regulatory requirements for Arti ﬁcial 
Intelligence in Europe”. Publications office of the European Union (April 2021).  


