PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-7dvr-3qah
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1788
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Jennifer Mi ller 
 Email: 
General Comment
I am  strongly against the developm ent of AI technologies that espouse, I quote, "unnecessarily burdensom e requirem ents do not ham per
private sector AI innovation". It is vital that any training or developm ent of AI m odels continue to be developed ONLY with the values of
being safe, secure, trustworthy, and in full respect of the rights of Am erican individuals, such as intellectual property rights holders.
Brazenly disregarding the legal rights of copyright holders, especially creative individuals, by using their works (be they visual, audio,
written, or otherwise) to train AI m odels does nothing to further secure Am erica's AI dom inance, but in fact can stand only to harm
Am ericans both in creative industries as well as on an individual level. Creative thinking and a strong support for creative individuals only
advances us as a nation, as these individuals are innovators, bringing new solutions to every im portant aspect of life; from  science, to
invention; from  creative national defense to incredible new healthcare discoveries. Not to speak of the soul enriching aspects of creativity,
as well as our considerable love for entertainm ent as a nation. Please do not discard the rights of creators, be they the legal rights upheld in
copyright law, nor the ethical and m oral rights we have as hum ans to create without being stolen from . Respecting the rights of people who
create texts, im ages, m usic, and m ore is not unnecessarily burdensom e, it is VITAL, and it m ust not be considered. Thank you for your
tim e.


