PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1tod-qyvl
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7768
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am  an Am erican citizen who grew up surrounded by artists who helped shape and guide m y life in the best ways possible. Art touches
everyone's lives in one way or another – be it through entertainm ent, architecture, even necessities like the clothes we wear.
Copyright laws are in place to protect these people who contribute m assively to society, and they will be the first ones hurt if com panies
like OpenAI get "special allowance" to steal their work. 
We need to protect constitutional rights now m ore than ever, like the rights to our property, which includes intellectual property.
Special exem ptions for tech corporations is sim ply allowing them  to steal and exploit the hardworking citizens of this country. It has also
been proven that generative AI can be extrem ely dangerous without appropriate oversight, ex. AI written books published with incorrect,
dangerous health advice.
The Action Plan m oving forward needs solid regulations placed on AI to reaffirm  trust and safety, such as requiring consent from  creators
for m aterials to be trained on, transparency from  these com panies on what source m aterial is being used and for what purposes, and legal
safeguards for any creative who does not want their property placed in an AI dataset.
AI has trem endous potential to be a very useful tool m oving forward, but only if it is handled m indfully and responsibly. Thank you for the
opportunity to com m ent.


