PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-y2rw-nu4h
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4796
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Eric Sch uster 
General Comment
Generative AI, as it currently stands, has been a disaster in alm ost every creative field I've seen it im plem ented in. I'm  an independent artist
and it's been dem oralizing to watch jobs that used to be stepping stones to further opportunity vanish, with the added insult of it being
done by stealing the work of peers in the field without com pensation or even attribution. Those m aking m oney off of these products are
the ones who've created a class of m iddlem en.
Deregulating it and allowing these m odels to stand as they are will not, based on m y observations, help anyone but the already wealthy.
Current m odels contain data that was harvested without considerations for individual's intellectual property, and, even worse, their
privacy. It and it seem s very short sighted to allow these m odels to use this data unchecked. There's already been m ore exam ples than I
can count of egregious violations towards people using these m odels and that's with the very m inim al checks it already has on it. In m any
ways, it's very difficult to fully articulate the harm s because the m odels them selves are so opaque.
I don't think there are no upsides to generative AI, but there needs to be m ore care and consideration put into its future applications than
we're seeing from  the current loudest voices dem anding it be able to grow unfettered and carelessly disrupt every industry they can wedge
it into so that they can m ake their quarterly num bers go up.
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.


