PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-xtvf-upr4
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4640
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: John S
General Comment
The wording of this docum ent feels like it's trying to purposefully confuse people.
Putting it bluntly, AI should not be used to REPLACE people. It should be used to HELP people. The way it's said here, and the way it's
said in m any other places, just feels like a way to "m ake things cheaper for big com panies" and allows them  to actively steal artwork,
m usic, etc. just to train an AI to do what hum ans spent their entire lives learning to do.
Artwork, m usic, and any form  of creative freedom  should not be stifled by the petty theft of big corporations wanting to nickel and dim e
their way out of paying actual people livable wages.
IP (Intellectual Property) is a term  that states that whatever som eone created is under their nam e as THEIR creation. AI for the purpose
of m aking art/m usic creation m odels is only stealing that stuff. Whoever puts a prom pt into an AI is not actively creating som ething new,
they're requesting for an algorithm  to rip out the very thing that m akes art "art" and turning it into just another piece of filth that has no soul
behind it.
When an artist adds som ething to m usic or to a drawing, there's intent behind what they do. There is a REASON for them  doing that. The
AI system s used for this do not understand that in any way, shape, or form . They just do the algorithm  they are told.
In closing, allowing AI to freely steal artwork of others to train itself is infringing on m any artistic rights, IP protections, and copyrights.
Those were put in place to protect artists from  the EXACT THING that is trying to be m ade legal right now - Art theft.
Please, for the love of decency, we have so little left to be stripped from  us. Why do you need to keep taking m ore away?


