PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 07, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 7z-q263-lv8t
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1107
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Art Klaw itter 
General Comment
My greatest concern about artificial intelligence is that the artificial intelligence does not show its work. It is nearly im possible to see where
the inform ation com es from  that arrives at a decision that is given back from  artificial intelligence. I have heard that if artificial intelligence
doesn’t have a reliable source for inform ation that it will m ake up that source. The only reason science continues to advance is that
scientist continue to question the validity of the data that has accum ulated in the past.
In retirem ent, we have visited two sites that illustrate the fact that we have lost technology in the past. Machu Picchu and Peru, where if
you visit three different guides, you have three different explanations as to how these rocks were shaped and put together. In visiting
Egypt, they have not been able to prove how these rocks were put together and m oved and quarried. These were technologies that were
apparently available to us in the past during tim es that we had writing and docum entation, but these secrets were not recorded and
m aintained. Artificial intelligence does not allow questioning from  where the inform ation com es.
I have a retired physician, and unfortunately, m y colleagues have becom e m ore students than colleagues. When I started in practice over
40 years ago, we had journal clubs that would critically evaluate articles to determ ine whether the inform ation presented was actually true
and useful. We now sit in lectures and have experts reading from  slides that we diligently watch in an audience and do not question. This
does not advance science. We have lost significant trust from  our patient by not critically, exam ine the inform ation that we are presented.


