PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: February 25, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 7k-zfdr-9zi3
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-0951
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Robert Handfield 
General Comment
Most of the activity that occurs behind the scenes at all stages of the supply chain involves hum an activity, processing transactions on
screens and Excel sheets. Today, there are few efficiencies to wring out of the four walls of m anufacturing plants, but m assive white space
opportunities in the daily activities that supply chain planners, buyers, and contract officers undertake.. This is where the opportunities lie
ahead. By applying technologies like Generative AI, organizations will be able to drive efficiencies in the way we work that will that create
trillions of dollars in econom ic value, by reducing working capital, increasing agility, and reducing waste, while m aking better decisions
based on data and analytics, not on gut feel.
What will this look like? My colleague Lt.Col. Dan Finkenstadt, PhD, provided m y MBA students a glim pse of what the future will look
like. Dan was able to provide us with an overview of what the digital transform ation will look like, and how tools like AI can fit into this
shift.
Dan began by em phasizing that AI is only one tool in a host of m any technologies that are part of Digital Transform ation which is
underway in m any industries. Artificial Intelligence includes very specific technologies: Natural Language Processing, Machine Learning,
Generative AI, but also Expert System s, and Bots. The latter two have been around for m any years. Bots are technologies that can grab
an API key, and follow a com m and. (An API is a Application Program m ing Interface, a set of rules that allows software applications to
com m unicate with one another.). But we are now seeing that Bots are being m ixed with other form s of AI – for instance, a Bot m ight grab
spend data and than a Large Language Model would use that data to provide suggestions on opportunities. The retrieval and processing
of the inform ation is like a thought process, only the m anifestation of the infom ration provided is different.
Dan notes there are m any other com ponents to the digital transform ation underway: technologies such as Block Chain, Internet of Things,
Edge Com puting, Big Data, Mobile Apps, Virtual Reality / Augm ented Reality, Digital Twins, Digital Engineering and Cloud Com puting,
which are all part the m ovem ent from  analog to a digital transform ation. Dan also discussed the need for different skill sets. Specifically,
Digital literacy prim arily concerns the skills required to effectively use and engage with digital technologies and m edia. Data literacy, on the
other hand, refers to the ability to read, work with, analyze, and argue with data. It is a m ore specialized skill set that focuses on the
critical thinking and technical abilities needed to handle data effectively.
When it com es to m apping a pathway for digital transform ation, Dan suggests that rganizations seeking to build an AI strategy will have to
address four prim ary areas of concern:
1. Could We? – Technical Feasibility and Validation. This is an assessm ent of whether our organization has the capabilities to adopt AI.
2. Should We? – Ethical and Societal Considerations – is this the right approach, especially considering that technologies like Generative
AI are inherently biased, as the source m aterials are often undocum entable. The problem  is that the data that AI is trained on is often not
representative of the entire population, and hence is inherently biased.
3. Would We? – Alignm ent and Value Generation – is there tangible value to be gained from  the technology, and if so, how do we


m easure it?
4. If We?… – Responsible and Effective Execution. People are nervous without thinking about what we m ight not want to do… it is not a
neutral im pact – if we don’t use it, will we be passed over? But can we also overuse the technology, and risk the possibility of ruining our
brand if we use it for som ething we shouldn’t.
Dan also distinguished between determ inistic and probabilistic AI.
Determ inistic AI operates under predefined rules to consistently produce the sam e output from  the sam e input. Useful for predictable
tasks like inventory m anagem ent and supplier selection, where consistent outcom es based on fixed criteria are essential. It excels in routine
decisions and operations m anagem ent, ensuring stability and consistency in procurem ent processes.
Probabilistic AI incorporates uncertainty and statistical m ethods to predict a range of outcom es, which is useful in scenarios with
incom plete or am biguous inform ation. It is ideal for dem and forecasting and risk m anagem ent, providing insights into probable scenarios
and enhancing strategic decision-m aking under uncertainty. It can be used for strategic planning by adapting to dynam ic m arket conditions
and planning for various potential scenarios.


