PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-3vuf-knhy
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1397
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Business Roundtable
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
2025.03.14_Business Roundtable NSF_NITRD RFI on AI Action Plan_FINAL


 
March  14, 2025 
Faisal D’Souza  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National 
Coordination Office (NCO)  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA  22314 
Re: Busines s Roundtable Response to Request for Information (RFI) on the Development of 
an AI Action Plan  
Dear Mr. D’Sou za, 
These comm ents are submitted on behalf of Business Roundtable, an association of more than 
200 chief executive officers (CEOs) of America’s leading companies, representing nearly every sector of the U.S. economy.  Business Roundtable CEOs lead U.S. -based companies that support 
one in four American jobs and almost a quarter of U.S. GDP.  We appreciate the opportunity to respond to the National Science Foundation (NSF) and Networking and Information Technology 
Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office’s (NCO) Request for Information (RFI) on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan (“AI Action Plan”).   
Introduction  
Business Roundtable members, whose companies are among the world’s largest developers and deployers of AI, are committed to ensuring the United States remains a leader in AI technology.  AI is a driver of innovation, creating new industries, improving efficiency and boosting productivity.  Maintaining leadership in AI ensures that the U.S. remains competitive 
in the global economy while also benefiting from AI’s role in scientific progress, technological breakthroughs and national security.  Continued leadership in AI is essential for protecting U.S. critical infrastructure and American entities from adversaries.  
Business Ro undtable applauds NSF and NITRD for soliciting comments on the development of 
the AI Action Plan to advance our shared goals of U.S. competitiveness and leadership , and we 
urge continued cooperation with the private sector as the process continues.  Below, we discuss policy recommendations for the building blocks of a strong AI ecosystem in the United States as well as international engagement to promote U.S. leadership in AI technology.  


Enable rs of a Strong AI Ecosystem in the United States  
Business Roundtable encourages the Administration to review policies to optimize key drivers 
of AI development, deployment and broad adoption in the United States which enable the private sector investment and growth that is critical to U.S. competitivenes s:  
•Access to technical resources;
•Voluntary, harmonized, ﬂexible and industry -driven standards for secure AI
development and deployment;
•Regulatory frameworks that provide certainty to business and foster U.S. innovation;
•Streamlined permitting processes for data center construction and associatedinfrastructure;
•AI research and development (R&D); and
•Workforce development .
Access to T echnical Resources 
Business Ro undtable recommends support for strategic public -private partnerships to expand 
access to technical resources, including efforts to make high -impact government datasets more 
widely available.  Advanced AI research requires vast amounts of computing power and data.  Expanding access to technical resources will lower barriers to entry and stimulate innovation 
across the U.S. economy.  The U.S. government has historically partnered with industry to 
provide technical resources to help mitigate threats and spur innovation — for example, by 
providing free anti- malware and cybersecurity services.  Applying this approach to AI will allow 
a variety of organizations to safely accelerate the development and implementation of AI.  
An important t echnical resource for AI innovation is government datasets, which are typically 
much larger in size and scope and more representative of diverse populations than non -
governmental datasets.  This makes them uniquely valuable for conducting res earch, testing, 
reducing bias and producing better AI models.  But while open data is encouraged and often required in government, federal agencies do not prioritize publishing high -impact unclassified 
datasets.  Increasing access to advanced computing res ources and tools empowers more 
organizations to engage in AI research and development by reducing barriers to entry.  Expanding access to these technical resources, while considering national security concerns, will accelerate responsible AI adoption and implementation and allow researchers to further 
our understanding of AI’s beneficial uses, risks and impacts on society.  
Standards  
Business Ro undtable encourages the Administration to work collaboratively with industry on 
standards for AI development and deployment that are voluntary, harmonized , flexible and 
build on existing widely adopted standards developed in multistakeholder venues.  AI standards 
developed through close collaboration between government, industry, civil society, academia and international partners are among the most effective.  This is  because the collaborative 


proce ss ensures that standards reflect the needs of all stakeholders, leading to more practical 
and adaptable guidelines for different use  cases.  A collaborative process also enhances 
alignment between technological innovation and policy, maximizing the benefits of AI for the 
broader economy.  
Among the mo st successful voluntary standards for any technology are those developed by the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).  The NIST AI Risk Management Framework (RMF) is an example of strong existing risk management guidance develo ped 
through robust public -private partnership.  While the NIST AI RMF and corresponding AI 
Playbook will be refined over time, including updates to account for different types and uses of AI, the framework provides a foundation for developing innovation -enabling standards.  Other 
frameworks and guidance for AI developed by the U.S. government should be consistent with the NIST AI RMF to avoid uncertainty and fragmentation across the federal approach to AI.  
Regulatory F rameworks  
The Administr ation should assess regulatory gaps to ensure that any new regulations , if 
necessary,  are appropriately narrowly scoped to address identified gaps without harming U.S. 
companies’ ability to innovate.  Many AI applications are covered under topic -and sector -
specific federal statutes.  Where regulatory guardrails are deemed necessary, whether in new 
or existing rules covering AI systems, policymakers should provide clear guidance to businesses, foster U.S. innovation, and adopt a risk -based approach that carefully considers and recognize s 
the nuances of different use  cases, including those that are low -risk and routine.  Reporting 
requirements should be carefully crafted to avoid unnecessary information collection and onerous compliance burdens that slow innovation.  Moreover, AI governance and regulation 
should evolve as the AI products, use  cases  and markets themselves evolve.  
Any regula tion intended to address AI risk should focus on evidence -based, real- world threats 
rather than conjectural harm.  Existing regulations and industry risk management practices can be adapted to safeguard against many of the concerns regarding the societal and economic impacts of AI.  Many Business Roundtable member companies have strong risk management practices in place for their supply chains to ensure the services they are procuring are secure, 
reliable and trustworthy.  The Administration should collaborate with industry stakeholders to 
develop AI policies that address remaining risks without stifling innovation.  When designed properly, policies that promote effective risk management practices can mitigate harm, increasing public trust in AI an d advancing adoption of the technology.  
Business Ro undtable encourages the Administration to work with Congress on legislative 
solutions that preserve a national framework for AI and avoid the growing patchwork of state AI regulation that hinders AI innovation.  In the absence of federal leaders hip, states are moving 
to regulate aspects of AI technology.  As of March 2025, over 700 AI -related bills have already 
been introduced in 47 states, which is the same number of bills introduced throughout all of 


2024.1  Companies have experienced the challenges of dealing with a fragmented and 
increasingly complex regulatory landscape due to the patchwork of state data privacy laws, 
which hinders innovation and the ability to provide consumer services.  Federal AI legislation 
with strong preemption should provide protection for consumers and certainty for businesses 
developing and deploying AI.  
Permittin g Processes  
Business Ro undtable supports Administration actions to facilitate investment in data centers, 
including streamlining permitting processes to expedite project approvals for both new data 
centers and related infrastructure.  Investment in AI is driving rapid demand for new data centers with increased capacity.  Challenges in getting permits cause construction delays, adding cost and time to data center projects.  Permitting issues and other regulatory barriers also make it challenging to build the infrastructure required to support data centers such as energy supply and transmission, as well as broadband infrastructure to allow consumers to utilize AI tools and services.  The Administration should work to shorten decision timelines on environmental reviews, provide preliminary feedback on application completion and accuracy, and digitize operations to streamline processes, including application submissions, necessary 
document uploads, feedback for revisions and status updates.
2  The Administration should also 
differentiate and prioritize projects by revising project permitting requirements in areas with ongoing operations and community engagement.
3 
AI R&D  
Business Ro undtable recommends strategic public -private partnerships to build and sustain a 
world -leading American R&D ecosystem, including through strategic long -term investments in 
science and technology and enabling conditions for private sector R&D.  This can be paired with appropriate funding for federal R&D, particularly for basic research, to maximize effectiveness.  
Expanding publi c-private partnerships —including through the Defense Advanced Research 
Projects Agency (DARPA), Department of Energy (DOE) National Laboratories , and Department 
of Defense Laboratories —could accelerate basic and applied AI research.  This approach would 
also allow the U.S. federal government to steer AI research toward under- explored areas, such 
as AI for cybersecurity, targeting key areas of economic or national security interest.  
1 Multistate.AI Legislative Tracker, accessed at: https://www.multistate.ai/artificial -intelligence -ai-legislation  
2 See Business Roundtable, Building a Prosperous Energy Future (June 2023). 
https://www.businessroundtable.org/building -a-prosperous -energy -future  
3 Ibid 


Workforc e Development  
America needs a workforce with the skills and training required for the in -demand jobs of today 
and tomorrow, including developing AI models, using AI applications and tools, and building 
and supporting AI infrastructure.  Many Business Roundtable member companies are taking 
these challenges head on by hiring individuals based on skills and not just degrees, expanding 
apprenticeship programs and embracing second -chance employment.4  Policymakers should 
complement these private -sector initiatives with reforms to the workforce development system 
that support employers’ ever -evolving workforce needs and worker advancement in an 
increasingly technology -based eco nomy.   
Strategic In ternational Engagement to Promote U.S. Competitiveness  
Business Roundtable supports strong U.S. engagement with global allies and stakeholders in international standards setting and regulatory bodies as part of a strategy to lead on AI innovation.  The domestic AI ecosystem can be further strengthened by U.S. efforts to shape international AI policies, ensuring they promote security and prosperity while avoiding conflicting legal obligations.  U.S. leadership helps set global AI standards that align with democratic values, including transparency, fairness and privacy.  Without American influence, 
authoritarian regimes could shape AI development and regulatory structures in ways that 
undermine human rights and increase surveillance.  
Business Ro undtable recognizes the national security implications of AI innovation and the 
importance of utilizing policy tools to mitigate risks to U.S. military and intelligence advantages.  The Administration should collaborate closely with the business  community to ensure that all 
new controls on emerging and foundational technologies effectively advance U.S. national and economic security objectives.  
Business Ro undtable recommends that the White House National Security and Economic 
Councils create a standing, private -sector Export Control Advisory Board (ECAB) with security 
clearance to ensure that private sector members understand the national security reasons for contemplated controls and policymakers are appraised of their potential commercial and economic implications.   
Business Ro undtable also encourages the Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and 
Security (BIS) to adopt the following practices before imposing new controls on emerging and foundational technologies:  
•after identifying the national security objective for contemplated controls, analyzetheir potential commercial, economic and competitiveness effects including throughconsultation with potentially affected industries or ECAB;
4 Business Roundtable, Corporate Initiatives, https://www.businessroundtable.org/corporate -initiatives . 


•include  a notice and comment period consistent with section 1758 of the Export
Control Act of 2018;
•create longer safe harbors for implementation;
•simplify to reduce compliance complexity;
•create an expedited licensing authority to permit the return of consigned material
owned by entities at the time of their placement on the Entity List;
•create a more transparent process for appealing decisions denying licensingrequests; and
•advocate that key allies embrace comparable controls to ensure that U.S. companies
are not uniquely disadvantaged.
Conclusion  
Business Roundtable appreciates your consideration of our comments and looks forward to 
working with the Administration to continue U.S. leadership and innovation in AI.  For any questions, please contact Amy Shuart, Vice President of Technology & Innovati on, Business 
Roundtable, at  or 
This document  is approved for public dissemination.   The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information.  Document contents may be reused by the government 
in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  


