PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-8u41-4t1r
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1441
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
Artificial Intelligence, or rather LLMs, need to have strict guardrails in order to prevent doing m ore harm  than good. Already, m any jobs
are being lost to it, inform ation is being m uddied, our data is at risk of exposure, crim inals are using it m ore than ever for scam s, and the
threat of deep fakes will ruin lives and obstruct court processes with doubts of whether evidence is even real or not. 
Worse, m uch of this so-called AI is built on stolen data in the form  of copyrighted artworks, writing, papers, and sound. Who are we if
we don't even own what we create? It is im perative that the rights of the people are put BEFORE the "rights" of the com panies.
Com panies have NO right to take what doesn't belong to them , all for the singular purpose of m aking m oney. No one benefits from  the
creation of fake books. No one benefits from  a program  doing all the work of a research paper when it harm s the intellectual health of
those using it. It will cripple our education system  when it's shoved into every lesson for youth to use as a crutch in order to not learn to do
the work them selves. It is actively being used to replace our very culture. What's the point of art if not m ade by hum ans? The internet is
currently flooded with m illions of generated im ages. Fake "photos" showing anim als or places that don't exist but are labeled as fact. At
what point will it be im possible to know what's fake and what's real? When the inform ation we turn to is polluted with false data that AI
conjures, which is it proven to do (I was told by AI that lim es were both extrem ely acidic and totally not acidic), how will people trust
anything? It is actively deteriorating all credibility of anything we see. At what point will people not believe a televised address if AI can
100% m ake it look real? Or worse - people do believe it and it's 100% false. The danger is insurm ountable. It is horrific in scope and
should not even be in the hands of the public. 
I ask at least this: Do not let AI com panies take and use whatever they want. Artists own their art AND the data is creates by existing
online. Authors own their word. People own their fam ily photos and their own faces. News outlets own their inform ation. AI com panies, if
they are to do business, MUST be restricted to only using data they pay for the rights to use, or are already public dom ain. If they cannot
m ake a business without doing this, they do not deserve to be in business at all.


