PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-28ru-juo6
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8107
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Daniel Delgado
General Comment
March 14, 2025
From :
Daniel Delgado
Writer
Tucson, AZ 85702
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am  a professional writer for fiction, nonfiction, and tabletop roleplaying gam es. I am  literally only able to m ake m y living and support m y
fam ily because of the integrity of the copyright and intellectual property system .
When a publisher wants to print any of m y work, they are required by law to obtain m y consent, and typically I only agree if they pay m e
a fee appropriate for the intended use. In this way, I am  able to receive paym ent for each separate use of m y work, such as audiobooks,
reprints, and adaptations.
The AI system s m ade by Big Tech com panies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy thousands of Am erican sm all
businesses like m ine with their recent dem and to create special carve outs in copyright law.
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. My unique work, and the work of hundreds of thousands of
other everyday Am erican creators was taken and fed into these AI system s without our consent or any com pensation. They ingest our
work, reassem ble it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly com peting with us and cutting us out of the m arketplace.
Now these Big Tech com panies are asking this adm inistration to create exceptions and loopholes to m ake this practice of stealing
Am erican creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a m achine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it
is som ehow suddenly “fair use”. This is a gross m isrepresentation of the concept of “fair use”.
If creators can no longer m ake a living at our work, we will be forced to stop doing it. This will stifle innovation and ultim ately choke off
the source that the AI com panies claim  their product depends upon.
Want to protect Am erican innovation? Protect Am erican creators. Do not create new copyright exem ptions that allow Big Tech
com panies to exploit and steal from  creators and everyday Am ericans without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency.
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech com panies, but rather on ensuring a fair
m arketplace with com petition:
First, the governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, so that we can decide when and where
our work is used by AI system s. All AI training system s should be OPT-IN only.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is
preserved. Our work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just


Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their
training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
Thank you for the opportunity to com m ent on these im portant issues.


