PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1ppn-dbty
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7673
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Micah Schuett
Em ail:  
General Comment
I am  here to com m ent because I refuse to let anything else continue to head backwards towards progression. Hum ans are m arvels and
our augm entation of creating AI is an achievem ent, however we need to regulate our use of it due to its hand in not proper handle of
source m aterial. 
I particularly am  an anim ator, but also work as a public servant due to the current lack of jobs m y latter career path has right now. And
that is due to the involvem ent of AI taking the helm  of m any industries and producers rather than having careful eye in the process, and it
will only continue to get worse unless som e regulation is taken on it. Because while I am  still in a fortunate position to have a job that
allows m e to do m y anim ation on the side still, there are hundreds of thousands of people who do have this as their career and need
regulation of how AI uses their work.
Let it be known if not already the biggest controversy of AI is where it uses its source m aterial. The fiasco with Google's initial "Gem ini"
im plem ented in the search results was not only a hilariously baffling downfall, but could pose risks to peoples wellbeing as well. After all,
one of its suggestions was to put glue on pizza for cheese to stick better to it.
In addition to physical harm , legal harm  is another issue with AI as m any people use their work that is shared in clouds and drives as Non
Disclosure Agreem ents; a binding contract that involves work that cannot be discussed or shared until authorized by the publisher or
producer. AI utilizing this can involve m any lawsuits that I know m any would not like to take part on in either side, which is why there
needs to be a strong arm  issuing where the line can be drawn on its use.
All in all, I would like to im agine a future where AI could be used as a tool that benefits in m any ways in our ever-so changing
technological world. But for now, we need to m aintain it so we can have that potential.
Thank you for allowing m e to com m ent.


