PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-15m y-zfau
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7177
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Jam es Pearson
General Comment
A com prehensive policy on m odern artificial intelligence system s is deeply relevant to the Am erican position on the global stage. In som e
form  or fashion, AI system s will be a part of the future of hum an civilization, and it would be foolish to assum e they can be ignored.
However, the access and legal fram eworks that current AI com panies are requesting goes well beyond reasonable. Com panies such as
OpenAI cloak their intent behind the value of "national security", speaking in nebulous and open-ended fashion on the topic and alluding
only to the im portant of Am erican suprem acy in this space. Their objective is to secure access to intellectual property of all kinds for AI
m odel training purposes, without perm ission, control, or com pensation to the creators of said IP. This would represent a wholesale form
of data-m ining, allowing AI m odel owners to use their AI system s to duplicate m any form s of IP, while the original IP owners would have
m inim al, if any, legal recourse. This would have a chilling effect on all areas that AI interact with; this could include artworks, m usic,
literature, and m any other cultural and non-cultural endeavors. It is very possible that sufficiently influential and/or wealthy IP owners
would be able to use existing laws and regulations to protect their IPs from  this depredation, but those without this leverage would be shut
out, their ideas and creations functionally stolen from  them .
As AI system s expand out into technological fields, this chilling effect on innovation would spread well beyond the fields of art and
language that are the current focus of public conversation. Technical developm ents in software and m anufacturing will eventually com e into
direct contact, and com petition, with the AI system s of the near or far future. If AI system  owners have free reign to copy and control the
developm ents and creations of others, growth in any area that AI system s touch will inevitably by stifled. The purported benefits to
Am erican com petitiveness that AI system  owners prom ise do not take this serious issue into account. If the United States governm ent is to
take action regarding AI system s in this environm ent, it m ust ensure that the rights of all are protected, and that the "first past the post"
developers of AI technologies do not choke out all possible com petition and seal Am erica's spirit of innovation away.


