PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-o6qn-ud5w
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2585
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Am erica does not need a stronger generative AI policy - generative AI program s are a m assive waste of resources, being inefficient and
producing m ediocre to bad results, and gutting copyright to allow generative AI com panies to steal data and creative works at will is a
great way to chill actual scientific and artistic progress in the United States. The reality of generative AI is that it's a probability m achine, a
stochastic algorithm  that generates a series of words, im ages, m usic, etc. that are related to som e input. If I'm  working on a paper about a
scientific field, and I ask a generative AI program  to m ake a bibliography, it'll throw out the nam es of papers, researchers, and journals
that are associated with the field I'm  interested in. Whether or not those words m ake any sense together, whether or not the thing those
words are describing actually exists, is an entirely different question. There is no "m ind" behind a generative AI program  that knows the
difference between a truth and a lie, and generative AI program s are by nature uncreative. As such, putting these program s in charge of
national security and database m anagem ent is incredibly dangerous, and has the potential to do lasting dam age to Am erica’s stability and
security. Furtherm ore, the com panies pushing generative AI program s have m assive financial investm ents in those program s, and it frankly
seem s like they’re trying to use the United States governm ent as a piggy bank to line their pockets. Even in calling these program s AI,
when there’s nothing intelligent, no “m ind” behind these program s, it’s obvious that this is a scam . I’m  also worried about the scientists,
artists, engineers, and entrepreneurs who will have their copyrighted work stolen by these for-profit com panies. How are we supposed to
create anything, why would we want to create anything, if our work is just going to be used by com panies who’ll sell it off to the highest
bidder? This policy seem s to be a great way to strangle real creativity in the cradle, while driving up utility costs due to the m assive
am ounts of electricity and water that generative AI program s need to function to badly ape that creativity. We need better policy than this.


