PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2jo2-m aeu
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8369
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
This is an absurd proposition that will destroy the livelihoods of tens of thousands of tax paying workers and destroy thousands of sm all
and hundreds of m edium  and large businesses for little to no econom ic gains. "AI" com panies are resource intensive unprofitable
businesses that will waste astonishing quantities of electricity and water to perform  labor that is currently done with very little use of such
resources and the quality of the works "AI" im age generators produce is of uniform ly low quality and is widely associated with bootlegs
and scam  products. What is being proposed is the m ass theft of the work of every past and current craftsm an and artisan underm ining
Am erica's status as the cultural center of the world. 
The loss of quality the wide use of these products would entail would com pletely erase the cultural and econom ic advantages that the
Am erican entertainm ent industries currently enjoy as "AI" program s can be copied and put to use by any person anywhere on earth.
Currently, a wide m ajority of working artists today either dwell and pay taxes within the United States or work with Am erican com panies
and clients generating billions of dollars in econom ic activity annually. Am erica has earned this advantage through long standing investm ents
in technology, education and the prom otion of entrepreneurship and hard work. Artists and craftsm en spend years and frequently invest
tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars to develop specialized skills that have m ade them  the envy of the world. However, m any cannot
com pete with the deluge of investor subsidized "AI" slop which greedy and short sighted individuals have flooded the internet with in an
effort replace our m ost skilled workers. "AI" com panies have burned hundreds of billions of dollars to tem porarily provide their services at
an artificially low price in an attem pt to drive artists out of business. However the low quality of the output of "AI" products still ham pers
their efforts. They seek to steal from  the hard working and skilled craftsm en in a desperate attem pt to m ake their own deeply flawed
products econom ically viable so that they m ight drive their com petitors out of business and then jack up the price of their product to pay
back the hundreds of billions of dollars they have already spent with no guarantee that they m ight even be successful or that their products
m ight not be copied or usurped by foreign com petitors as China has already done with a far sm aller investm ent of m oney with DeepSeek. 
To enable a system  that punishes Am erican workers for the benefit of foreign com petitors is unconscionable and would pose a direct
threat to the Am erican cultural hegem ony the United States currently holds over the globe. To put it bluntly, the m ass adoption of "AI"
program s would lead to a flood of m inim ally viable products indistinguishable from  low quality products m ade elsewhere erasing the
current power of Am erican art and culture and steering billions of dollars of revenue to sim ilar products produced by com petitors in China
and other nations. At the sam e tim e, this proposition will destroy countless jobs, enable the m ass theft of Am erican intellectual products
and lower the quality of the products Am erica produces, dim inishing Am erica's com petitiveness on the global m arketplace.
And finally, there is no indication that "AI" quality will m eaningfully im prove or that the harm ful hallucination problem s can be fixed under
the current m odel. If for no other reason than to m otive AI com panies to work sm arter and invest their resources m ore wisely, do not give
them  free reign to steal the work of Am erican artists. Deepseek was able to achieve what it did with the tiny budget allotted to them
because they had to work sm arter due to their lim itations of resources. Am erican AI com panies are bloated poorly m anaged juggernauts
that threw an astonishing am ount of m oney into a m odel of software that was colossally inefficient and built billions of dollars worth of
unnecessary hardware and data centers because, without lim itations, they didn't need to innovate. Over feeding will kill a business just like
it will kill a goldfish. Enabling the destruction of copyright cannot be undone. It will hurt people and cost us a ton of m oney. And you m ight
do it and see literally no benefit because som e com pany in som e other country was m otivated to build it better by the very lim itations you
are considering lifting.


