PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3m 08-l645
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9563
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Andrew Rohde
Em ail:  
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Letter


March 14, 2025
From:
Andrew Rohde
Filmmaker
Re: National Science Foundation’ s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am an everyda y American who own s a small visual design busine ss which serve s client s in the 
entertainment industry. I have worked hard for year s to develop the skill s and knowledge to build my 
business, and have been lu cky enough to make a decent living and support m y famil y – until recently.
The AI systems mad e by Big Tech companies like O penAI (Microsoft) and Google th reaten to 
destroy thousands of American small businesses like mi ne w ith their recent demand to create 
special carve ou ts in copyright law.
AI system s can onl y be produced b y first training on wor k made b y people. M y unique work, and the 
work of hundred s of thousand s of other everyda y American creator s was taken and fed into these AI 
system s without our consent or an y compensation. The y ingest our work, reassemble it, and then sell 
it back to our client s – directl y competing with u s and cutting u s out of the marketplace.
Now these Bi g Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and loopholes to 
make t his practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They 
are suggesting that if a machine ingest s and reproduce s copyrighted work, it i s somehow suddenl y “fair 
use”.
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardle ss of who own s it – 
should be their s for the taking. The y claim that if thi s administration doe s not allow them to rewrite the 
law in thi s way, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite e ffect. The p urpose of American copyright law is to protect the 
incentive to create and innovate.
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen b y Big 
Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyda y American s create a new innovative piece 
of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of musi c only to have it immediatel y stolen by 
Google and Microsoft, wh y bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibl y make a living 
doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? P rotect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday 
Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’ s AI Action Plan should focu s not on giving awa y creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
•First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give
effective consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI
systems.
•Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that
the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense
economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original
creators, not just Big Tech.


•Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what
content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI . I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of 
hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


