PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-p6es-lngk
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2673
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Isabel MacIntosh  
General Comment
I recognize that m any people believe that the developm ent of AI is a step forward into the advancem ent of society. But I im plore you to
look carefully at what you are allowing corporations to do by lifting restrictions that m ight im pede AI innovation. Doing so would
com pletely destroy the already fragile copyright infrastructure we have. Creative works deserve to have their rights protected, and people
who work in creative fields deserve to m ake a fair living based on the stuff that they create. The prom pts it produces do not get generated
from  nothing, or from  an actual intelligent m ind, like the term  AI would suggest. It is being generated from  the data scraped off of the
internet. To allow AI to develop without restriction would be a loss of jobs, a loss of privacy, and a terrible step back in societal
developm ent.
I say this from  the stance of som ebody in college for anim ation. I'm  losing hope with every day that I will ever be able to m ake a living
doing som ething I'm  passionate about. Because the federal governm ent wants to decide that the works I create deserve to be in the hands
of a 10 billion dollar com pany producing AI instead of m yself. And because corporations believe that paying a subscription fee for the AI
com pany and letting it feed them  the stuff it stole from  m e is cheaper than paying m e a living. I have people every day telling m e to work as
an 'AI Artist' because that's what all the jobs are going to becom e, and I should jum p on the bandwagon. My fears are not unrealistic,
they are sim ply what culture has becom e. I desperately wish som e part of the governm ent agreed that I deserve to be paid; to live.


