PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1010-h755
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7346
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Re National Science Foundation s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan


March 14, 2025
From:
Taylor B.
Animator
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for In formation o n the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) A ction Plan
I am a freelance a nimator stu dying animation and graphi c design. People in creative 
professions su ch as animation, illustration and graphi c design practice their craft for ye ars. We 
are free to share and profit from o ur own wo rk, and our wo rk is protected u nder co pyright laws. 
But recent efforts by Big T ech companies are putting A merican creators’ jobs in danger.
Big Tech companies such as OpenAI (Microsoft) a nd Google’s AI systems are a threat t o 
creative industries such as the one I’m in. The y threaten to destroy thousands of 
American small businesses with their demands t o create special carve outs in copyright 
law. 
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work made by people. The u nique wo rk of 
hundreds of thousands o f other e veryday American cr eators like me are being taken and fe d 
into these AI systems without our consent or co mpensation. They use o ur wo rk by stealing it 
and reassembling it, and then they sell it back to clients, which cuts us out of the marketplace. 
Additionally, we do not gain a ny compensation from the usage of our wo rk.
Now these Big Tech companies are a sking this administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to m ake th is practice of stealing A merican cr eators’ copyrighte d work legal precedent. 
This precedent could put thousands of American cr eative jobs at risk, from co mpany work to 
freelance creator s. These co mpanies are su ggesting tha t if a machine ingests and r eproduces 
copyrighted work, it is somehow suddenly “fair u se”, even though it uses our work without 
permission.
They seem to believe that anything and everything o n the internet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration d oes not allow them to 
rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect . The purpose of American c opyright law is to 
protect t he in centive t o create and innovate. 
If we the American p eople d o not own our creations, and everything we p ut online will be sto len 
by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new 
innovative piece o f computer co de, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it 


immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will 
we possibly make a living doing these things?
Since its creation, America has taken pride in its artists and creatives. If Big Tech companies 
succeed in creating copyright exemptions for AI systems to scrape our work, there will be less of 
these creatives, as artists will not want to share their work with the world if they’re afraid it will 
be stolen from them without compensation, credit, or consent. 
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and 
everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
●First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
●Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that
the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense
economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original
creators, not just Big Tech.
●Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what
content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I believe there are many other ways AI can benefit this 
country. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and 
give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.
Thank you for giving the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


