PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-p4xd-37e7
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2666
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Nicole Vrabel  
General Comment
Dear whom  ever this concerns,
My nam e is Nicole, and I recently just graduated from  an art college and now work full tim e in the entertainm ent industry as an associate
concept artist. All m y life I have been in love with the process of creating. From  stories to characters, I have found m y earliest childhood
hobby to be art. I would doodle any chance I could get, from  m y free tim e in public school to sitting down and creating full illustrations at
night. In short, art has been a defining force in m y life, to the point that I decided to pursue it as a career for the day I becam e an adult.
That day has finally cam e, and I have never been happier to work in m y life. 
Generative AI started to becom e relevant around halfway through college, where I have invested already so m uch m oney, energy, tears,
and accom plishm ents. When I began to see this new technology be used as a tool to replace the arts - m y heart felt on the verge of
breaking. I watched as artists I have looked up to, have their original creations be shredded and crunched as data without their consent
and used as a replacem ent for their work. This isn't sim ply technology evolving to help fellow m en, this is technology that is being used to
destroy careers - potentially in the future, if unchecked, to cause a soaring rate of unem ploym ent within our econom y. Not just in the arts -
but essentially every field of work. 
Not only that, generative AI has been used to create deepfake porn of wom en and m inors - create false and dangerous inform ation - and
fill the once resource filled internet, with junk that isn't even real. An argum ent can be m ade that generative AI has regressed technology
than actually progress it-the opposite of what it has been claim ed to be doing.
I find the consequences of continuing down this path of developm ent- without proper restrictions, ethics, and regulations - will hurt our
country m ore than help it. Hurting current copyright laws - which ensures our work be protected as individual property - goes against
everything Am erica has advocated for. 
There is no such thing as innovation from  regurgitation. There is no such thing as personal property without IP protection. And there is no
such things as a pursuit of happiness when squandering the rights of m illions of Am ericans dream s to work on things with passion. We do
not want a grotesque inflation of content to feed a m achine for the sake of "looking" productive and creative.
Com puters and the internet has helped hum anity reach resources that previously couldn't and has help aid in everyday work. This
advancem ent helped spring new jobs and supply old ones with help instead of replacem ent.
Generative AI has done nothing but hurt working class Am ericans, the arts, the hum anities, science, and critical thought. I have yet to find
an exam ple of true benefits to scrapping data without care - a problem  that has existed even before AI with tech com panies and
som ething that m any Am ericans agree was a problem  then and a problem  now.
I beg of those who take the tim e to read this, to really think of the individuals in the present, and not the future that is being sold. We, in
the now, will suffer. And if we in the now suffer, than how are we suppose to m ove forward without dragging that m isery as well. I want
and deserve a future that is built with good intentions and care, not a future that was privatized for greed and power. 


Thank you for your tim e,
Nicole Vrabel


