PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-bfzp-zk5b
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1855
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Hello,
I am  an artist. The unchecked growth of “AI” in recent years has being incredibly detrim ental to the artistic com m unity, especially in online
spaces. The generative “AI” m odels need to be regulated to align properly with existing copyright law. If com plying with the law m akes
these m odels non-functional, then they shouldn’t exist in the first place. Much less be given subsidies from  the federal governm ent. 
I ask, what is the m ain export of the The United States? Other than pollution and the m ilitary industrial com plex, I’d argue that it is our art
and culture. When the art we create isn’t even m ade by actual creatives anym ore, which is where I see artistic field are heading if
generative “AI” if allowed into artistic fielded unfettered and unregulated. Our art will suffer, our creativity will die, our culture stagnates.
The soul of Am erica are will be com prom ised by selfish capitalists, who would rather buy a m achine to m ake a m ovie, that pay living
artists a livable wage to m ake a m ovie. We artist are already losing jobs and opportunities. The studios that fund our art and entertainm ent
have m ade billions of dollars on the hard work of artists. And now these studios are eager to replace artists with com puters that have been
trained on stolen works. 
Artist have been sounding the alarm s about chatGPT, OpenAI, and other generative m odels. These are not tools to help artists(as we
have been told), they are tools m eant to replace us. We have been asking for regulation, but her have been m et with apathy. It was never
about m aking creativity accessible, but rather taking opportunities away from  the ones who actually dedicate there lives to creativity.
I am  not a Luddite, I do not want to destroy com puters and I understand that there are beneficially and practical uses for “AI” tools. But
when artists are excluded from  conversations about how these tools are im plem ented into artistic fields, we understands that it’s not about
em powering artist with these tools, but replacing them . And doubly, when these tools are trained on m assive am ounts of stole artwork it
becom es crystal clear that we are not being respected.
As an artist I stand with m y fellow creatives when I say copyright law should be respected. Regulate “AI” and protect artistic fields from
technology capitalists who seek to steal from  us and replace us in our own field. 
Thank you.


