PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0lte-5dki
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6734
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Tabitha Huizinga
Address:
General Comment
I'm  honestly surprised that OpenAI is asking for unfettered access to copyright m aterial since they've already been (illegally) scraping
copyrighted m aterial to their hearts content. And som ehow that's still not enough? I'm  wondering what is left for them  to steal, and why
they would need to ask to steal it. What happens when OpenAI has stolen everything that's left? It'll eat itself, creating m ore and m ore
hallucinations, until it's totally useless. What is the endgam e to this Action Plan?
Unless OpenAI is actually a com plete failure and Sam  Altm an is trying to keep the scam  going just long enough to get as m uch m oney as
hum anly possible out of it. Which begs the question, why is the US Governm ent working so hard to save a failing business that sucks up
m ore resources than a sm all city while providing nothing but recycled slop and guesswork. It can't even do sim ple m ath at this point. 
Ironically, this proposition would also be bad for OpenAI and other generative AI program s, because then others can steal their "work"
with im punity, which historically AI proponents really don't like. They hate when others "steal" their prom pts - with seem ingly no self
awareness that they in fact have stolen from  artists, writers, and other creatives. 
There are good AI program s that are useful, but they have very specific use cases, like the AI developed to identify baked goods in a
Japanese bakery that is also good at identifying cancer cells. (Notably that AI program  is not 100% capable of finding cancer cells without
a trained radiologist overseeing the analysis.) But OpenAI is not identifying cancer cells, or even identifying baked goods. It cannot tell a
picture of a honeybee apart from  a picture of a baby in a bee costum e. I'm  all for scientific innovation and exploration - but som e
hypotheses don't turn out, and should be abandoned. OpenAI has not earned the right to Am ericans' copyrighted work, and our hard
work should not be bastardized for the sole purpose of lining a billionaire's pockets.


