PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-343s-33kb
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8833
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Gam e Developer
Em ail:  
General Comment
I don't want AI to have any place in the US's present or future, especially not under the thin and entirely fabricated justification of "national
security". "AI" is an enorm ously wasteful, expensive, unethical, unproductive, and unwanted scam  fueled alm ost entirely by the blatant,
brazen, theft of data spanning all industries, academ ia, research, and the arts. It is just another attem pt by the m orally bankrupt
Rum plestiltskins in Silicon Valley to attem pt to spin straw into gold, having successfully enshittified the entire internet and m ost aspects of
m odern life thru "innovation" in their soul-destroying quest to extract infinite profits from  ordinary citizens.
OpenAI, LLMs, and other generative "AI" m odels have had years of unchecked access to the totality of hum an knowledge and
expression, and have yet to produce a m eaningful justification for their continued over-valuation and existence. Industries have been
decim ated, and thousands (possibly m illions) of skilled workers have been laid off because gorm less C-Suite types bought into em pty
prom ises from  the likes of Sam  Altm an and his astoundingly credulous arm y of zealous sycophants. What do they have to show for it: lying
chat bots; psychedelic photos of Jesus Christ m ade out of shrim p; hideous sludge passed off as "art"; deep-fake pornography of countless
victim s without their consent; "autom atic" self-checkouts in un-m anned stores that in actuality are rem otely m onitored by hundreds of low-
wage workers in developing countries; the hasty firing of thousands of federal em ployees (som e of whom  were later re-hired) based on
the non-expert supervision of an un-specialized AI; not to m ention the fact that AI suggestions, sum m aries, bad data, fake news, fake
articles, fake m edia, and other so-called "hallucinations" have polluted the internet to the point where looking up basic facts is a challenge
for anyone not savvy enough to know where to look, and entire industries will be form ed solely to separate this junk data from  the
genuine. All this for the low, low price of half a trillion dollars and m ore electricity and fresh water than could sustain an industrialized
continent for decades.
The reason these com panies are trying to convince our governm ent that their technology is im portant to national security is because they
know it will be easy lie to sell to m any Am ericans and their representatives. Their calculation is sim ple: if they can convince enough
taxpayers of AI's usefulness, they can receive infinite funding from  Am erican taxpayers and never have to worry about being held
accountable for their lies, fraud, nor the unfathom able am ount of data they've stolen to enrich them selves. Do not let them  get away with
this attem pted scam .


