PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-wv0b-6qhz
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1750
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Nathanael Tronerud  
General Comment
"Artificial Intelligence", as it has been m arketed, m ay be artificial, but it is anything but intelligent. It does not "think", it only does what all
other com puter processes do: they com pute. It happens that the am ount of inform ation it com putes and vast, but it is incapable of
originating a thought, it cannot express an opinion, it does not know, ever, what it is "saying" or "drawing" or anything else. Large
Language Models (LLMs) are statistical m achines, and that's it.
And yet large corporations and billionaires are hugely invested in m aking them  the Next Big Thing, because they envision them  as a way of
cutting out the artists and writers, and anyone else creative, from  the equation. They see generative "AI" as their ticket to a free m oney
printing m achine. In so doing, generative "AI" has been used to plagiarize and steal from  thousands upon thousands of artists, writers, and
creators in the United States and around the world, and now com panies like OpenAI and Google are asking the governm ent to loosen
copyright restrictions so that they can keep doing what they've been doing all along: breaking the law.
Many years ago, Am ericans were chastised for downloading m usic m p3 files over the then-nascent world wide web via peer-to-peer
networks like Napster and Lim ewire, the com m on refrain being "You wouldn't download a car!" and sim ilar hokey slogans. And yet,
corporations of the present day seem  to have no such qualm s about stealing droves of digital inform ation created by individuals, all in the
hopes that they can finally do away with the pesky artists their AI algorithm s are based on. And of course, when you take a vacuum
cleaner to the entire searchable internet, you also suck up huge swaths of private inform ation, including m edical data, that has no place in
any LLM anywhere.
To say nothing of the theft of it all, LLMs require vast am ounts of electrical power to run the enorm ous data centers that m ake them  work,
with m ore data centers with thousands of com puters and GPUs churning away to com e. This power doesn't com e from  nowhere, it m ust
be produced, and in doing so we will find ourselves exponentially accelerating the clim ate change problem , potentially ruining the only
world we have, for both billionaires, and for the rest of us.
And it's not even worth it! Im age results look terrible. Text "sum m aries" are filled with nonsense (so-called "hallucinations"). Code is
buggy, legal write-ups are filled with non-sequitors and invented case law. And the reason is, as stated before: generative "AI" does NOT
think! It can't think. It will never reach the level of "general" artificial intelligence, because it doesn't even have the intelligence of a fruit fly.
It, in fact, has NO intelligence at all. It is just a statistical output m achine, worse even than a text m essenger's autocom plete function.
Generative "AI" is at best a novel toy, but it cannot "create", and it shouldn't be allowed to operate at all in a world facing the resource and
clim ate problem s that we face, both as an individual country, and for the rest of the Earth.


