PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-34h8-8hfp
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8846
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Alexis Candelaria
Em ail:  
General Comment
AI (also known as LLMs) are, quite sim ply, a scam . They are overhyped corporate garbage that literally has no m ore benefit to the public
than currently existing search engine technology; far less, in fact, because AI is extrem ely detrim ental to our society and culture in m ultiple
unique ways. At a very basic level, alm ost by definition, it urges people to relinquish their cognitive faculties and stop thinking for
them selves. 
Additionally, AI steals flagrantly from  hardworking creatives, people who have honed their skill via blood, sweat, and tears, by hoovering
up their work without their consent and then at the press of a button vom iting out partially digested slop facsim iles. Every AI com pany and
executive should be prosecuted out of existence; they are thieves on a hitherto unknown scale. Even considering allowing LLMs to be
trained without any restraint of copyright is downright sham eful, not to m ention a torching of the jobs m arket politicians claim  to care so
m uch about. 
Data security and legal/privacy concerns already abound around AI as it unfortunately exists now. It would be a catastrophe if it were
allowed further unfettered access. I don’t trust ANY corporation to have m y best interests as a citizen at heart and these AI com panies
explicitly care about nothing except enriching their executives at the expense of ordinary people. They are venal, greedy, and I don’t want
them  to get anything m ore out of us than they already have. 
Further, the environm ental im pact of AI, due to its power consum ption, is absolutely horrendous. In a tim e it is im perative we m ove away
from  fossil fuels, AI is exacerbating the existential threat of clim ate change by m oving us back toward coal-generated electricity sim ply due
to the scale of its dem ands. This is inexcusable and ridiculous. 
AI should hold no place whatsoever in the future of the United States or any other country. I urge whoever is reading this to NOT cede
any further ground to AI or its proponents. Stop this im m ediately!


