PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-y2cq-urpo
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5023
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
AI Letter


March 15, 2025
From:
Abigail DeVries
Undergraduate Student
Re: National Science F oundation ’s Request for Information on the D evelopment of an Artificial 
Intelligence (A I) Action Plan
I am an everyda y American who is on cusp of graduating. Since I would love t o one day get a 
job in my major and be a ble to afford to move out. But with the recent probl ems Big Tech 
companies and thei r AI systems, I may have t o seek work outside of the c ountr y. Like in 
Germany or Canada.
The AI systems mad e by Big Tech companies like O penAI (Microsoft) and Google th reaten 
to destroy thousands of American small businesses like with their recent demand to create 
special carve ou ts in copyright law . They will also force man y graduate s tudents to start 
looking outside of the U S for jobs. While AI is currently unable to provide the same l evel of 
expertise a human could do in any situation.


AI systems can only be produced by first training on work made by people. The unique work of 
hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators was taken and fed into these AI 
systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest their work, reassemble it, and 
then sell it back to our clients – directly competing with us and cutting these incredible artists out 
of the marketplace.
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and loopholes 
to make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are 
suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow suddenly 
“fair use”. 
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to 
rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to 
protect the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen 
by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new 


innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it 
immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will 
we possibly make a living doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday 
Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big 
Tech companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective 
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the 
incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic 
value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just 
Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, 
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what 
content is AI generated.


I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. Especially in the field of medicine and 
in the right hands that have been properly trained for years. Not someone who knows how to 
sling a prompt the “right way”. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of 
thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


