PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-swaa-c4ui
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3165
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Nicholas Nu gent 
General Comment
Generative AI has proven itself to be unreliable and alm ost universally disliked in any capacity regarding the creation of im ages, videos, or
any other form  of m edia. As soon as the public learns of AI's involvem ent in advertising or production, the com pany that sham elessly
deem ed the "final" product to be acceptable over the work of actual, skilled, educated hum ans, always faces significant backlash that
results in lost profits, reputation, or both. 
Allowing these AI m odels to steal the work of actual people in order to "train" them  has resulted in countless jobs lost in the nam e of
"cost-cutting", all in order to m ass produce low quality slop that degrades the integrity of m edia everywhere. Not only this, but allowing
generative AI to proceed unchecked will have grave consequences that reach far beyond m erely putting artists out of jobs and further
shredding what little rem ains of RELIABLE inform ation available to the public. It also poses very real risks to national security, personal
credibility and privacy, and so m uch m ore. Through the creation of deep fakes, propaganda im agery, false news articles, etc., we face a
growing threat of m isinform ation, blatant theft, innum erable opportunities for scam s and crim inal activity, and other form s egregious m isuse
of a tool that is poorly understood and only becom ing m ore and m ore widely available. Allowing the evolution and spread of such
dangerous technology can and will influence every aspect of our daily lives in a negative m anner.
AI can have m any great uses when applied conservatively, and for very specific tasks. A great exam ple would be the ability to m ap the
structure of proteins like what AlphaFold has achieved. However, by essentially dism antling the entire purpose of copyright protection to
allow for legal theft of any and every creative achievem ent that hum anity has to offer, we not only cheapen the entire concept of art in
general, (defined as "the expression or application of HUMAN creative skill and im agination, typically in a visual form  such as painting or
sculpture, producing works to be appreciated prim arily for their beauty or em otional power") but we insult the works of all the great and
influential artists who helped to build the world as we know it today. 
All to elim inate jobs from  hard-working Am ericans, allow for the em ergence of dangerous m isinform ation, propaganda,m ore believable
scam s, low quality products, and the general decline of reliability, credibility, reputation, and public perception of Am erican com panies
and governm ent.
No one is fooled by the claim s that elim inating copyright protection will som ehow am ount to increased national security. It's illogical at
best, and downright absurd at worst. It's obvious that the proposal for this breach of privacy and disregard for creators' rights is nothing
m ore than a selfish attem pt by OpenAI to further their own agenda, and, through som e ridiculous and twisted logic, justify their theft of
data from  m illions of people. No doubt backed by plenty of m onetary "incentive" to convince the corrupt to com pletely ignore the obvious
problem s and risks that com e with such short-sighted legislation.
Do the right thing and shut this down before it sets a terrible precedent for the encouragem ent of theft, m isinform ation, dim inishing quality
of products and reputation, and the eventual collapse of what pathetic scraps of what som e m ight call an "econom y" we have left. Protect
the U.S. and it's citizens before it's too late.


