PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-20ea-j7rh
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7919
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Richard Roberts
Address: United States, 
General Comment
Generative AI is an algorithm  capable of generating superficially convincing text and im ages, but only superficially. It presents serious
dangers, as m ost of the jobs people want it to do, it is inherently incapable of, but can often produce som ething that looks convincing until
you try to use it. This can have disastrous results, such as AI generated m ushroom  guides leading to poisoning. This problem  is built into
the generative AI concept itself, because it is only a statistical analysis of existing creations.
To reach even this flawed and dangerous state, AI com panies have had to steal vast am ounts of copyrighted m aterial. They have said
openly, m any tim es, that large scale generative AI depends entirely on this theft. And it is theft. Again, generative AI is nothing but a
copying and rem ixing m achine. It does not use the works it is trained on to learn how to create, it sim ply copies by statistical m odel. To
the extent it ever succeeds, it is because it stole content from  the original creator.
Com bining these traits, the thing generative AI is best at is being used for dubiously legal or directly illegal scam s, where quality is not
necessarily, only vast am ounts of m aterial that seem s convincing at a glance. Then we add in another m ajor problem  - by depending on
large am ounts of stolen data, generative AI engines contain legally sensitive inform ation such as legal docum ents and m edical records,
which the con artists already drawn to these tools are m otivated to m isuse.
In conclusion, AI certainly needs a governm ental plan in place, but the policy changes needed are m ore lim its on what generative AI can
be trained from  and used for. Subsidizing AI com panies to do m ore of what they are doing now will only m ake these existing problem s
worse.


