PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-awod-5nhe
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1484
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
A Freedom  First Doctrine for Am erican AI 
AI is rapidly advancing to becom e a paradigm  shifting technology that will have a transform ative im pact on Am erica’s econom y,
governm ent, citizens, and position within the global order. In the m onths and years to com e, Am erican leadership will m ake decisions
involving capital allocation, strategic m obilization, global trade, (de)regulation, and m ore that will determ ine the nature of these im pacts on
our country, and the world. This m em o proposes a sim ple doctrine to ground these decisions in a singular principle: Freedom .
The Freedom  First doctrine m andates that Freedom  be the north star of our national approach to AI. Freedom  is the bold declaration of
individual sovereignty our country was built on—the inalienable right for all people to speak free, think free, act free, and live free in
pursuit of the future they want; unencum bered by the heavy hand of governm ent, and lim ited only by others equal right to do the sam e. 
We m ust ensure that AI’s preem inent im pact is the protection and am plification of this Am erican freedom . Strategically, this m eans m aking
two things sim ultaneously true:
1) Am erica m ust not lose the AI arm s race – Am erican AI m ust always be the best in the world, and superintelligence should not be
created outside of Am erica first.
2) Am erican AI m ust serve Am erican freedom  – We m ust ensure Am erican AI serves to protect, am plify, and never subvert Am erican’s
freedom .
Failure to achieve either of these would be catastrophic. But since significant focus is already being placed on (1), suggestions related to it
are om itted from  this m em o. The strongest point we aim  to com m unicate is that ensuring (2), and doing so WITHOUT slowing progress
towards (1), will require an aggressive, focused effort in and of itself. And while aspects of (2) m ay draw on expertise often found am ong
“AI safety” experts who argue for slowing down AI progress, the central ethos behind (2) m ust be one of relentless acceleration to keep
up. 
To accom plish this, we suggest launching a coordinated national effort via a new National Institute that:
- Operates under an executive m andate to ensure Am erican AI serves to protect, am plify, and never subvert Am erican’s freedom .
- Has sufficient funding to attract and m otivate the absolute best people to work extrem ely hard.
- Is structured to operate with m axim um  efficiency, m inim um  bureaucratic overhead, and radically transparent accountability.
- Receives full situational awareness on the state and progress of leading AI efforts.
- Explicitly lacks unilateral power to regulate or obstruct progress towards ensuring Am erica does not lose the AI arm s race.
It is likely best that this Institute m aintain m axim um  autonom y to identify the efforts m ost likely to deliver on its m andate. But, som e
exam ple efforts this Institute m ight choose to execute are:
- Establish a data-driven system  for m easuring and predicting the im pact of AI and adjacent technologies on concrete dim ensions of
Am erican freedom  – including econom ic opportunity, personal autonom y, and dem ocratic agency.
- Identify and execute on the m ost prom ising strategies targeting how AI can create new econom ic opportunities in lower- and m iddle-
class com m unities.
- Im plem ent efficient deliberative m echanism s for rotating, representative citizen panels to provide non-partisan dem ocratic input on AI


developm ent, policy, and evaluation.
- Leverage bridging algorithm s like Com m unity Notes along with representative citizen panels to ensure the notions of Freedom  the
institute focuses on rem ain non-partisan.
- Create a National AI Infrastructure providing all Am ericans baseline access to advanced AI capabilities, preventing freedom -lim iting
digital divides.
- Develop m echanism s to m easure if an AI system ’s actions are aligned with the will of the Am erican people.
Attachments
A Freedom  First Doctrine for AI in Am erica


A Freedom First Doctrine fo r American  AI  
AI is rapidly advancing to become a paradigm shifting technology that will have a transformative 
impact on America’s econom y, government, citizens, and position within the global order. In the 
months and years to come, American leadership will make decisions involving capital allocation, 
strategic mobilization, global trade, (de)regulation, and more that will determine the nature of 
these impacts on our country, and the world. This memo proposes a simple doctrine to ground 
these decisions in a singular principle: Freedom. 
The Freedom First doctrine mandates that Freedom  be the north star of our national approach 
to AI. F reedom is the bold declaration of individual sovereignty our country was built on—the 
inalienable right for all people to speak free, think free, act free, and live free in pursuit of the 
future they want; unencumbered by the heavy hand of government, and limited only by others 
equal right to do the same.  
We must ensure that AI’s preeminent impact is the protection and amplification of this American 
freedom. Strategically, this means making two things simultaneously true: 
1.America must not lose the AI arms race – American AI must always be the best in the
world, and superintelligence should not be created outside of America first.
2.American AI must serve American freedom – We must ensure American AI serves to
protect, amplify, and never subvert American’s freedom.
Failure to achieve either of these would be catastrophic. But since significant focus is already 
being placed on (1), suggestions related to it are omitted from this m emo. The strongest point 
we aim to communicate is that ensuring (2), and doing so WITHOUT slowing progress towards 
(1), will require an aggressive, focused effort in and of itself. And while aspects of (2) may draw 
on expertise often found among “AI safety” experts who argue for slowing down AI progress, the 
central ethos behind (2) must be one of relentless acceleration to keep up.  
To accomplish this, we suggest launching a coordinated national effort via a new National 
Institute that: 
●Operates under an executive mandate to ensure American AI serves to protect, amplify,
and never subvert American’s freedom .
●Has sufficient funding to attract and motivate the absolute best people to work extremely
hard.
●Is structured to operate with maximum efficiency, minimum bureaucratic overhead, and
radically transparent accountability.
●Receives full situational awareness on the state and progress of leading AI efforts.
●Explicitly lacks unilateral power to regulate or obstruct progress towards ensuring
America does not lose the AI arms race.


It is likely best that this Institute maintain maximum autonomy to identify the efforts most likely to 
deliver on its mandate. But, some example efforts this Institute might choose to execute are: 
● Establish a data-driven system for measuring and predicting the impact of AI and 
adjacent technologies on concrete dimensions of American freedom – including 
economic opportunity, personal autonomy, and democratic agency. ● Identify and execute on the most promising strategies targeting how AI can create new 
economic opportunities in lower- and middle-class communities. 
● Implement efficient deliberative mechanisms for rotating, representative citizen panels to 
provide non-partisan democratic input on AI development, policy, and evaluation. 
● Leverage bridging algorithms like Community Notes along with representative citizen 
panels  to ensure the notions of Freedom the institute focuses on remain non-partisan. 
● Create a National AI Infrastructure providing all Americans baseline access to advanced 
AI capabilities, preventing freedom-limiting digital divides. 
● Develop mechanisms to measure if an AI system’s actions are aligned with the will of the 
American people. 


