PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-y9du-nm zu
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4906
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Paige 
Warren  
General Comment
Allowing private com panies to ignore intellectual property ownership is not “unnecessarily burdensom e.” AI com panies have already
proven them selves to be unconcerned with stealing copyright and IP ownership. Their current m ethods are destroying careers, destroying
industries, and destroying the environm ent; using IP stolen from  the sam e people whose careers they’re now destroying. This action plan
will allow them  to double down on their current m ethods with im punity. 
“Private sector innovation” has been robbing the Am erican public hand over fist because it claim s that that will secure “Am erica’s AI
Dom inance.” Unfortunately for all of us, we’ve been sold a lie. Not only does AI fail to live up to its lofty prom ises, it churns out
m isinform ation at an alarm ing percentage and has m ade that m isinform ation even easier to dissem inate. Am erican AI m akes us look like
gullible fools who favor flash over substance. Am erican cultural exports, such as Mickey Mouse and Marvel m ovies, only have the power
they do because copyright guarantees that that cultural export is the sam e trusted product around the world. 
Private sector abuse of copyright is already underm ining that trust. Don’t give them  perm ission to abuse it further. They’re actively robbing
hard-working Am ericans who /actually/ innovate and it’s dam aging Am erica at hom e and around the world.
Instead of giving tech com panies carte blanche to steal from  Am ericans in the nam e of “AI Advancem ent,” these com panies need to be
held accountable. If they want to use intellectual property that they do not own, they need to pay for the right to use it.


