PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-wjdu-m o5r
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3927
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Sam 
Badgerow  
General Comment
I believe pursuing investm ent in generative AI is a serious m istake. It will only benefit generative AI com panies in the short term , while
individual Am ericans will have protections and rights stripped from  them . Allowing generative AI com panies to use private m aterial to
bolster their product, which they are trying to sell for a profit, is a conflict of interest as it m eans they have no lim it on what sorts of data
they can take and repurpose.
Allowing generative AI to flourish is also a sercurity issue, as m any individuals are already no doubt aware of deep fakes hurting the lives
of individuals.
Am ericans em ployed in creative industries are losing jobs to com panies pursuing generative AI without guardrails. Generative AI is being
used uncritically for a wide variety of purposes. Its use in som e instances is even leading to the spread of false inform ation. Generative AI
isn't even all that great at what it's being used for, as its results often need to be scrapped and discarded, or heavily edited by a hum an
hand. It does not work as it's m eant to and pursuing m aking it better would only take away valuable resources that could be allocated to
tried and true m ethods.
Com panies do not need an exem ption to steal from  Am erican individuals and even other com panies. We should not invest in generative
AI and we should not allow the com panies creating it to profit off of the hard work of others, with no recourse. To put it plainly, I do not
think these com panies should be allowed to steal the work of individual Am ericans for them selves. These com panies should not be given
an exem ption for theft from  our citizen's data at such a large scale.
The Am erican governm ent should not provide an exem ption for com panies to train on our data, private, public, or otherwise. Rather, I
think we should be stricter with these com panies. We should be holding them  accountable for the actions they are taking that are
disenfranchising m any Am ericans as we speak.


