PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 13, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 87-erxd-a58n
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1177
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Anna Bradley  
Email: 
General Comment
My nam e is Anna Bradley, and I am  a graduating senior at Avonworth High School. I researched the im pact of generative AI on nursing
in hospitals for a sem ester course and recently studied this adm inistration's viewpoint on AI regulation. Based on m y two m onths of
student research I think AI should be advanced and utilized in a very cautious m anner. The m any benefits of using AI include, lessened
docum entation tim e, helpful resources, rewriting discharge papers, m edicine prescriptions, and m uch m ore. However, I believe it should
be a cautious tool instead of som ething relied upon. AI, although not fully developed, will never reach the expectations needed when it
com es to health and m edicine. Researchers have found an im m ense draw back when using AI tools like ChateGPT in nursing because it
cannot adjust to m any health issues at once. It takes longer routes to solve problem s, advises expensive tests when not needed, and when
put side by side in a com petition with nurses, took m uch longer to find resolutions. I think AI can be a beneficial tool when used correctly.
Acting as a nurse is not the proper way to incorporate it into health care. Instead, being an assistant in the technology aspects of the job.
Docum entation tim e takes up approxim ately 26.2-41% of the work hours specifically for nurses (Yen, Kellye, et al). Using AI could
lower that percentage and allow m ore patient-nurse interactions. I truly believe using AI could open doors for healthcare to advance,
however, it m ust be cautiously incorporated and utilized in the nursing field.


