PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-vx0n-k8zb
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3708
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Allison M  
General Comment
1: It's nonfunctional without theft
This new technology requires huge am ounts of data to do what it does, to supposedly teach com puters how to “draw” and “write” and
“talk” like people, and that data isn't com ing from  nowhere. It's com ing from  all the inform ation that's currently accessible online, including
encyclopedias, periodicals and m edia broadcast websites, art com m unity im age libraries, creative writing online libraries, public record
archives and any picture, published story, or social m edia post shared onlin. What this m eans, in short, is: if you have ANY sort of
footprint of existence online, it's currently up for grabs for a tech com pany to use to teach their generators how to “m ake things.” And no
one will be com pensated for it.
On top of all this? It's not even actually Artificially Intelligent. “AI” is a sci-fi buzzword covering up the fact that these program s are m erely
extrem ely com plicated average generators, without any real “cognition” or “understanding” behind them . They are the equivalent of a
trained pigeon, which receives seeds when it pecks the word “FOOD” on a screen: it does not know “how to read”, it does not
understand that the word “FOOD” m eans anything edible, it has m erely been conditioned to expect a result when it interacts with a
particular shape of letters. They cannot, and will not ever understand the full breadth of m eaningfulness of com m unication that com es from
real hum an beings and what they produce.
2: It's Horrible for the Environm ent
The developm ent phase of GPT-4, the currently m ost advanced Large Language Model Text Generator to date, put electricity supply
dem ands on power plants that created carbon em issions output equivalent to powering over 1,300 hom es for a year. And when it's
working to process inputs, it produces m ore, with GPT-3's daily usage profile producing 8.4 tons of CO2 annually. And all those data
centers need water to cool. According to the Washington Post in collaboration with the University of California, Riverside, if 1 in 10
Am ericans used ChatGPT weekly for a year, it would require the am ount of water equal to that used by the entirety of Rhode Island for
1.5 days. And whether you like it or not, the anthropogenic im pact of hum an industrial activity on the environm ent is a known and proven
scientific fact. Waking up and seeing news briefs of the city of Los Angeles literally looking like the gateway to Hell should be illustrative
enough of the dire consequences of neglecting to m anage water consum ption.
3: It Devalues the Essential Hum an Expression of Creativity
No m atter what your philosophical definition of “m eaningful art” is, it is an activity that has intrinsic value because it's som ething that only
hum an beings do. But what “AI” algorithm ic generation does is say that the only art that m eans anything or has any value is the art that
“looks good enough” to be a product. There is no space in AI Algorithm ic Generated art for abstraction, im pressionism , stylization and
any of the innum erable ways that the hum an m ind looks at the world, and attem pts to outwardly express the act of interpreting it. For AI,
there is only the pre-existing library of im ages, and what is m ost frequently occurring to draw from .
There was a study recently that attem pted to prove that the average layperson “likes AI art” because it m anages to reach the sam e level of
a m ediocrity as m undane consum er decoration, and the average person is too stupid to know what “critically worthy” art is anyways. But
not only is that insulting of every person's ability to appreciate the m any different kinds of art, it's also a screen for a deeper, m ore serious
issue. The issue at stake in the im plem entation of AI is not only “what art is good enough to be consum ed” but rather “do hum ans deserve
to do art at all, or should it be handed over to m echanization?” If a com puter algorithm  can generate an im age that is good enough for
business purposes, there’s no reason for a hum an to m ake a painting. Why should a person spend tim e writing story if a m achine can do it


faster and cheaper? Every action that can be done sufficiently by autom ation MUST be turned over entirely to autom ation to do. Every
hum an activity m ust be proven to have som e kind of quantifiable value, and if it does not m easure up, som ething m ore “productive” m ust
be done instead. If a com puter can m ake the art, write the story, or film  the m ovie for free, then all the painters, writers, poets, cartoonists,
actors, film m akers, and everyone else m ust do som ething else worthy of pay
It is with these points in m ind that I insist that US regulation treats "AI" as the dangerous, wasteful novelty that it truly is.
* I do not believe AI holds a place in the future of the US
* AI steals from  m y livelihood as an Am erican and profits off of theft
* AI is overhyped and is fleecing the eyes of the Am erican public.


