PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 88-zuxw-gohs
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1370
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Darktrace
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Darktrace response to NSF / OSTP Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
Attachments
Darktrace response OSTP NSF RFI on the Developm ent of an AI Action Plan


1Darktrace response to NSF / OSTP Request for Information on the  
Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government 
in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution
Background
Darktrace, a global leader in AI cybersecurity, welcomes the opportunity to respond to this 
Request for Information. 
The recently unveiled Chinese operation known as Volt Typhoon,  in which PRC-sponsored 
cyber attackers infiltrated U.S. IT systems, exemplifies how vulnerable the U.S.'s most critical 
organizations – and the services on which Americans rely on everyday - are to increasingly 
stealthy and sophisticated cyber threats. Successful attacks like these show the importance of 
continually modernizing cybersecurity, to ensure the most effective, state-of-the-art defenses 
are employed against advanced and worsening cyber threats.
Adversarial AI makes the task of the defender harder. Indeed, AI can automate and scale up 
attacks, lowering the barrier to entry for attackers and making attacks more sophisticated and 
harder to detect. The FBI warned last year  of increasing use of AI by cyber criminals, with 
attackers leveraging AI tools to craft highly convincing voice messages or emails. We have 
also seen AI being used by hostile states to enhance cyber-attacks: research  by Microsoft and 
OpenAI identified state-affiliated actors leveraging LLMs to launch cyber-attacks, including for 
reconnaissance purposes and to create malware designed to avoid detection. 
At the same time, AI-powered cyber defenses are emerging as the most effective response to 
this evolving threat landscape and combatting near-peer adversaries. AI systems can analyze 
vast amounts of data in real-time, identifying and mitigating threats more efficiently than 
traditional methods. AI allows for the intelligent augmentation of security teams to accelerate 
response times, increase efficiency, and reduce team workload. This proactive approach 
allows organizations to adopt preventative measures, managing more potential attack vectors 
and being better prepared to detect and respond to known, unknown, and novel attacks. The 
U.S. House of Representatives’ Bipartisan AI Task Force’s final report  in 2024 found that “as 
sophisticated attackers seek to use AI offensively to exploit complex systems, security teams 
must use AI defensively to improve cybersecurity resiliency.”
Importantly, adopting AI-enabled cyber defenses will be essential to ensure that the U.S. can 
maintain and enhance its leadership in AI. The Trump Administration has highlighted the value 
of AI for national security.  The Action Plan should treat  state-of-the-art cyber defenses, 
including  specifically  AI-powered  cyber  defenses,  as  an  enabler  of  AI  adoption  and  a 
prerequisite to protecting the U.S.’ most critical organizations and services, as well as the 
country’s broader national security.
Darktrace welcomes the OSTP’s plans to introduce new policy actions aimed at maintaining 
and advancing America’s leadership in AI. With over a decade of experience in applying AI to 


2cybersecurity, we have drawn on our expertise to put forward three policy recommendations 
for the development of the U.S.’ new AI Action Plan: 
1.Issue: Prioritize the use of AI in cybersecurity solutions across 
federal government use cases, ensuring enhanced national 
resilience against evolving cyber threats.
The US Federal government should require cybersecurity solutions to leverage AI and  
Machine Learning. 
The cyber threat is getting worse, endangering economic and national security, the 
safety of citizens, and undermining the U.S.’ ability to fully realize its ambition of 
retaining and enhancing its AI leadership.  
AI-powered cybersecurity systems act as the best defense against a worsening threat 
environment. AI and Machine Learning cybersecurity systems enhance the detection 
of known as well as unknown attacks, enable autonomous response at machine speed, 
and close the gap between defenders and attackers.
The increasing convergence of IT and OT environments due to business or functional 
requirements has created greater vulnerabilities across U.S. critical infrastructure. 
Adopting AI-powered cybersecurity that can operate within and across both IT and OT 
environments is essential to have a unified defense posture and the only way to secure 
the critical resources Americans rely on every day.
AI also helps to address the nation’s cyber skills gap problem by automating routine 
cybersecurity tasks, freeing up human resources to focus on more complex and 
strategic operations like advanced threat hunting or prioritized cyber resiliency efforts. 
The Administration should drive AI cybersecurity adoption through policy integration
White House leadership is essential for federal adoption. The Administration should 
embed mandates for Federal agencies to deploy cybersecurity solutions that leverage 
AI/ML in each key national strategy document, including:
oNational Security Strategy (NSS)
oNational Defense Strategy (NDS)
oNational Military Strategy (NMS)
oNational Cybersecurity Strategy
Reinvigorate the Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation (CDM) Program
The CDM program has proven pivotal for agency cybersecurity, but it should evolve to 
counter emerging threats. A new phase of the CDM should focus on investing in AI-
powered solutions, enabling federal agencies to proactively detect and respond to 
cyber incidents.
Expand Cybersecurity Funding to State & Local Governments


3State and local entities face the same sophisticated cyber threats as federal agencies
but often lack resources. Reauthorizing the state/local grant program should fund AI-
based cybersecurity solutions for critical infrastructure protection at the SLTT level.
Modernizing standards and controls to encourage adoption of AI-powered cybersecurity 
The best AI capabilities are delivered via the cloud, making cloud security integral to AI
security. FedRAMP remains the primary gatekeeper for cloud adoption in government.
NIST  controls  must  evolve  to  reflect  modern  AI-driven  security  innovations.  AI
techniques such as pattern recognition, anomaly detection, and behavioral zero trust
should be incorporated into cybersecurity controls at the heart of FedRAMP.
2.Issue: Drive AI security across the stack—securing AI data centers,
cloud deployments, and models.
Expand AI Security Beyond Model Protection
While previous policy efforts focused on AI model security, a comprehensive approach
must extend to network and cloud environments and AI infrastructure.
AI security must encompass the full technology stack, including data centers, network,
infrastructure, APIs, identities leveraging these assets as well as cloud deployments in
addition to the AI models themselves.
Complete and real-time domain visibility, monitoring, detection and response across all
IT and OT protocols is critical for defense and represents the foundation for securing AI
systems. Advanced Machine Learning analytics understanding the network or domain
are needed in order to detect and contain more sophisticated adversaries.
OSTP  should  champion  an  AI  security  strategy  that  extends  beyond  models,
prioritizing network visibility and security whether in the cloud or on premise as well as
data center protection, clear communication guardrails, principle of least privilege
access controls, and NIST cybersecurity revisions that better include AI use cases for
cybersecurity to ensure national resilience.
AI Infrastructure Cybersecurity is Critical
AI security is not just about the protection of models. Federal AI policy should look
more holistically at AI infrastructure writ large—data centers; cloud infrastructure
across IaaS, PaaS, & SaaS; data sets; development and deployment workforce, AI
infrastructure, including data centers and cloud providers. These should be understood
as  critical  national  security  assets,  requiring  AI-driven  monitoring  and  federal
hardening efforts akin to CISA’s approach to critical infrastructure.
oThe most modern AI is developed in the cloud and deployed through the cloud.
Therefore, secure AI deployment means securing cloud deployment.
oAI workloads rely on high-performing data centers, which are prime targets for
cyber threats.


4AI must defend AI—leveraging autonomous cybersecurity solutions to combat new
and evolving cyber threats. AI-powered cybersecurity must become standard across
federal cybersecurity frameworks. AI should augment zero-trust architectures, making
dynamic, behavior-based security adjustments in real time.
3.Issue:  Ensure  that  any  NIST  standard  on  AI  governance  is
interoperable with ISO 42001.
The legacy governance approach to AI was not optimized to industry needs.
oFractured AI governance weakens U.S. national security and competitiveness.
oMisaligned standards increase vulnerability by forcing companies to manage
conflicting  compliance  requirements,  slowing  down  AI  advancements  in
defense and intelligence.
NIST’s AI Risk Management Framework (RMF) is a thoughtful standard.
oThe RMF can help U.S. AI companies scale globally by improving alignment
with the leading industry-led AI standard, ISO 42001.1
oThe Administration should direct NIST to align all AI governance criteria with
ISO 42001, the internationally recognized AI governance standard.
ISO 42001 provides a harmonized framework that strengthens AI supply chains,
ensures secure AI deployment across critical sectors, and enhances coordination with
allied nations.
oU.S. companies already comply with ISO 42001, making it the de facto  global
AI governance framework.
oAligning AI governance frameworks with a single, clean ISO standard adheres
to the President’s deregulatory mandate—repealing 10 regulations for each
new one.
About Darktrace
Darktrace is a global leader in AI for cybersecurity that keeps organizations ahead of the 
changing threat landscape every day. Founded in 2013 in Cambridge, UK, Darktrace provides 
the essential cybersecurity platform to protect organizations from unknown threats using AI 
that learns from each business in real-time. Its affiliate Darktrace Federal Inc. is on a mission to 
deliver complete AI-powered solutions to defend U.S. federal government customers from 
cyber  disruptions  and  ensure  mission  resilience.  Darktrace’s  platform  and  services  are 
supported by 2,400+ employees who protect nearly 10,000 customers globally. To learn more, 
visit http://www.darktrace.com .


