PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-01is-pgya
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1367
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Casey Sm ith 
General Comment
Genuinely, we are playing with fire by giving AI control over everything. With it, we could potentially ruin m illions of Am ericans careers if
AI is im plem ented into everything in this "AI race". With the way the data is fed into the m achine, it's unethical, it's the equivalent of feeding
a toddler horm ones to m ake them  grow faster; feeding AI just anyone's data is horrible. Why would the average Am erican, som eone who
works 40 to 60 hour work weeks, want to feed their own private and intellectual inform ation into a m achine designed to not "stream  line
their job", but to be a com plete replacem ent. Several corporations are already going the route of com pletely replacing hum ans as workers;
in stores we have self check outs with m aybe one or two people working, whereas in the past, we would have a fleet of people ready to
work. When we go to get food, we skip over the hum an interaction and tell a m achine our order and hope its right. 
Recently, there was a study that tested AI in the m edical field, it was found that it skipped over SEVERAL underlying and progressing
illness that are potentially fatal without treatm ent! Why would we want that? Your platform  is on "m aking us healthier again" but you want
to use a m achine that is designed to underm ined doctors that spend over 10 years in school and hundreds of thousands of their own
m oney to learn the what, why, and how of m edicine. Myself, and several others in m y personal life would opt-out this system  if it ever
cam e to fruition (if that would even be allowed as an option). 
The sam e with artists, graphic designers, painters, film  m akers, and m usicians. Right now, they are ALL being underm ined by generative
AI! I've spoken with and m et artists that lost clients because generative AI is "good enough" for them . It's not a m atter of "oh we're stream
lining the art industry!"; it's m ore like "OOooooh! Let's feed these peoples art work into generative AI WITHOUT THEIR
PERMISSION and m ake crazy bank off of this!" 
There is no critical thinking here! There is no skill or trade being learned; and eventually, artists will be forced out of their place in our
society. 
AI also requires a good bit of com puter power, server power, and the good ol' internet to work as well. What happens to AI if we have a
country wide outage due to a cyber attack, which we are obviously not safe from . What if your data banks are stolen or transferred by a
foreign power and is used to train their own AI? Then it suddenly doesn't m atter anym ore if our AI is m ore advanced because som eone
else has the sam e thing now!!! What if we get hacked and suddenly som eone changes a random  piece of software or just drops a virus in
the whole thing? Then we're starting at step one *again*. 
AI is a product of rocks that we hum ans tricked into thinking. I think AI needs to stay out of our governm ent, hospitals, m edia, and
everything else. The fact that AI assistants have their own language they speak in that is incom prehensible to hum ans and takes seconds to
send back and forth is a terrifying thought. The fact that we have generative AI that is able to alter it's own code is right out of the
Term inator.
Please, I urge you, think about the dangers of AI in the long run. Think about how our society will grind to a halt if everyone is jobless. If
we don't have m oney, how are you going to get m oney out of us willingly? You won't. 
Whoever is reading this; or if it's being filtered by an AI; I urge you to read "I have no m outh and I m ust scream ", "Colossus by Dennis


Feltham  Jones", and "Dune" just to start. Watch Black Mirror for crying out loud. 
Once we give an AI that is sm art enough to think for it's self the power of the Am erican Military, we have lost our own free will and we
will be at the m ercy of a m achine that has to decide if hum ans are really necessary while it wields the power of a thousands suns. As an
Am erican citizen who loves our countries history and what the Am erican people are m ade of, don't let us fall into Roko's basilisk for
m onetary gain. 
ps. As I'm  writing this, I am  realizing it feels fruitless to ask the rich to stop stepping on people who will never see a m illion dollars in their
life, haha.


