PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-z6pk-vo2e
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5595
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
To whom  it m ay concern:
I am  responding to the RFI regarding the developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan as directed by the Presidential Executive
Order of January 23, 2025.
Generative AI system s are built on the appropriation of hum an-created content without proper com pensation or consent. These system s
—particularly the foundation m odels which under-gird them —consum e creative works, professional writings, and intellectual property
created by Am ericans, then produce derivative works that directly com pete with original creators. As an Am erican worker and lifelong
creative writer, and 1 of 2.32 m illion Am erican workers holding a degree in com puter science, I have witnessed how AI is stealing from
m y livelihood and profiting from  this theft. This represents a m assive transfer of wealth from  working Am ericans to technology firm s with
no fair com pensation for those whose work is being exploited.
AI is severely over-hyped and is fleecing the eyes of the Am erican public through inflated prom ises and m isleading claim s about its
capabilities. Most AI system s fail to deliver on their prom ises when deployed in real-world settings, suffering from  unreliability and
incorrectness. The adm inistration should be wary of m aking policy based on industry hype rather than dem onstrated value. Before
com m itting national resources to "AI dom inance," we the people should dem and rigorous, independent evaluation of AI system s' actual
capabilities and lim itations.
I recom m end:
1. Im plem enting strong copyright protections that prevent AI training on creators’, artists’, and other copyright-holders’ intellectual
property without perm ission and com pensation
2. Requiring transparent labeling of AI-generated content
3. Protecting Am erican jobs by restricting AI use that directly jeopardizes the livelihoods of hum an workers
4. Establishing a m oratorium  on governm ent AI procurem ent until proper im pact assessm ents can be conducted
In sum m ary, Am erica should prioritize technology that genuinely fosters hum an flourishing and honors the dignity of work and creativity.
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.


