PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-y4wr-i626
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4827
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
As an academ ic, a professional m usician, and a published author, I have seen widely-touted advances in the field of AI in recent years.
Having tried m any of them  for practical work-related tasks, it is m y considered professional opinion that the Em peror has no clothes. This
is an overhyped dead-end tech bubble that is destined to go the way of the Segway, Bored Ape NFTs, and Google Glass. I sim ply will
never be persuaded that the future of Am erican arts, letters, and industry is the technology that brought us "Willy's Chocolate Experience."
Artificial intelligence is like artificial lawns: there is no use for it if you have a real one. If I ever decide that I need a chat assistant to
overconfidently give m e incorrect answers with m ade-up sources, I can call m y ex-brother-in-law. 
As Sam  Altm an has rightly said, "It would be im possible to train today's leading AI m odels without using copyrighted m aterials." Well
then, it should be im possible to train today's leading AI m odels, Q.E.D. If it is im possible for som eone to get a billion dollars without
defrauding working people and stealing intellectual property, then they should not get a billion dollars. This is not a m orally or ethically
difficult question except to thieves. 
The best way to ensure Am erican technological dom inance is to see the AI scam  for what it is, and instead invest heavily into supporting
hum ans who are able to create and analyze with genuine intelligence and insight. A concrete policy action would be to pull all funding for
OpenAI and invest it in education, the arts, and technology that actually has practical applications.


