PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-wjbj-ilsv
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3925
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: William  Segaard
General Comment
AI CANNOT BE HELD ACCOUNTABLE
THEREFORE, AI CAN NEVER BE ALLOWED TO MAKE MANAGEMENT DECISIONS
These large language m odels are not nearly as capable as people would have you believe, and are unlikely to be ever capable of m uch of
what people are trying to sell you on. I am  not exaggerating when I say you can easily convince a large language m odel that two plus two
equals five with only m ild suggestion, and they can potentially get even basic m ultiplication tables wrong all by them selves; they spent all
that m oney on m aking a COMPUTER forget how to do BASIC MATH, and they think it can do literally *anything* of value? If your
com puter program  is beaten by a dollar store calculator, I would fire you and try to get you blacklisted from  the industry.
There is sim ply no way literally anything good com es of scraping the entire internet to feed it into The Machine That Lies To You Because
It Genuinely Doesn't Understand How The English Language Works. Because it doesn't understand how the English language works! It
just decides what's statistically the m ost likely letter sequence to follow after the letter sequence it has currently, and then repeats that until
it com es up with "statistically, there would be a period here". That's all it is. That is the foundation of the technology, and that is all it is
capable of doing.
Please, rip up this executive order, and tell President Trum p to tell Elon to keep his hands to him self and stop trying to drag the highest
governm ent office in the land around on a leash.


