PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-27b8-ejxe
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8379
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Steven Lam bert
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
AI action plan com m ent


From:
Steven Lambert
Web Developer
Re: National Science Foundation’ s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
The AI system s made by Bi g Tech compani es like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google 
threaten to destroy th ousands o f American s mall businesses with their recent demand to 
create special carve out s in copyright law.
AI systems can onl y be produced by first training on wor k made by people. M y unique work, 
and the wor k of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators was taken and fed 
into these AI system s without our consent or any compensation. They ingest our work, 
reassemble it, and then sell it back to our client s – directl y competing with us and cutting us out 
of the marketplace.
Now these Big Tech companies are asking thi s administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to make thi s practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted wor k legal 
precedent. They are suggesting that if a machine ingest s and reproduces copyrighted work, it is 
somehow suddenl y “fair use”.
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it –
should be their s for the taking. They claim that if thi s administration does not allow them to 
rewrite the law in thi s way, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have th e opposite e ffect. The p urpose o f American c opyright law is to 
protect t he incenti ve to creat e and innovate. 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen 
by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new 
innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of musi c onl y to have it 
immediatel y stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will 
we possibl y make a living doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not creat e new 


Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators.
copyright exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators 
and everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
• First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
• Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the
incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic 
value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just
Big Tech.
• Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content
is AI generated.
We should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away 
to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


