PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3vfk-fvso
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9494
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
I don't know what m ore can be said this m atter.
I wish m ore people, especially those who are reading this right now (or hearing this, on the off-chance it's being read aloud), were able to
grasp the gravity of this situation right now.
I wish I didn't have to becom e som e instant expert on the nature of "artificial intelligence", m uch less the Executive Orders pertaining to it,
just so I can form  the exact words needed to reach the hearts and m inds of those in power to convince them  to avert yet another potential
crisis in the m aking.
I fear I do not, but I am  com pelled to try.
All form s of artificial intelligence (or "AI"/"A.I.", for short) holds the potential of being developed for the benefit of this country, not just an
entitled few, but it can't be done with reckless abandon, with no regard for "how the sausage is m ade". I have heard and seen too m any
stories of how generative-AI developers pillaging countless m edia archives to feed into their m achines to regurgitate and vom it out an
rough am algam ation of whatever passes for im aginative to the unim aginative. Tim e and tim e again, I am  a witness of one insult to life after
another, each one a product of generative-AI. Pictures of dead m en, trying to pass off for the genuine article. Fragm ented noise
pretending to be m usic. Sandwich recipies containing the process of producing m ustard gas. In a sea of creative frauds and technological
hucksters, I've found only one actual productive use of generative-AI: fast-tracking cancer research. And this is the stuff that people have
been able to get away with WITH the barriers Executive Order 14179 wants rem oved.
There's nothing progressive, nothing productive, about unchecked developm ent on artificial intelligence. It's inefficient, and a waste of
resources, both physically and digitally. I'd like som e assurance that AI can be innovated safely and securely, and I need a lot m ore than
"Trust m e, bro.".


