PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-yqqk-zdh7
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5247
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Dan Capl inger 
General Comment
To whom  it concerns: 
In regard to the developm ent of an artificial intelligence action plan, any such plan m ust require would-be users of intellectual property held
by others to enter into agreem ents before such use. The plan should require com pensation for holders of intellectual property rights in the
event of unauthorized use. Traditional "fair use" analysis should not apply, because the technology underlying generative artificial
intelligence uses the entire work to inform  its m odels.
Indeed, all contracts assigning intellectual property rights executed prior to the final enactm ent of the plan that do not explicitly m ention use
of intellectual property rights for purposes related to artificial intelligence should be construed so as to exclude AI use. For contracts to
have AI use included in their term s, parties to those contracts will have to affirm atively agree to such a provision on a date after the final
enactm ent of the plan.
For the governm ent to allow unauthorized use of intellectual property rights for artificial intelligence without com pensation would violate
the Takings Clause of the Fifth Am endm ent to the U.S. Constitution. Policym akers need to protect the intellectual property rights of
property holders in order to avoid a m assive surge in litigation surrounding unauthorized use of intellectual property for artificial
intelligence.
Without the creators of intellectual property, artificial intelligence would have no value. Creators deserve just com pensation for their work.
Any policy that allows use of intellectual property for artificial intelligence without such com pensation not only unfairly enriches the actors
who take that property but also -- and m ore im portantly -- rem oves any incentive for creators to continue to produce new work. 
I urge you to craft a plan that rewards the production of creative intellectual property and punishes its theft.
Thank you for your consideration.


