PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-149r-7j7v
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1380
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  S&P Global
General Comment
See attached file
Attachments
SP Global AI Action Plan RFI Response 03142025


1 March 14, 2025 
Faisal D’Souza 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO) 2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Re: S&P Global Response to Request for Information (RFI) on the Development of an AI Action Plan  
S&P Global welcomes the opportunity to respond to the National Science Foundation (NSF) and White House Office of Science and Technology Policy’s (OSTP) Request for Information (RFI) on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan (“AI Action Plan”). S&P Global is a strong supporter and proponent of AI adoption across financial markets and is working on  integrating AI into existing products and functions as well as 
creating new products all with the goals of assisting employees, enhancing customers’ 
efficiencies, and driving economic growth. We applaud the administration’s efforts to 
develop an AI Action Plan and appreciate its openness to industry input.  
Introduction 
S&P Global is the world's foremost provider of credit ratings, benchmarks, analytics, and 
workflow solutions in the global capital, commodity, and automotive markets. With each  
of our offerings,  we help many of the world's leading organizations navigate the economic 
landscape so they can plan for tomorrow, today. S&P Global has more than 42,000 
employees across 152 offices in 44 countries. Our business divisions include S&P Global Ratings, S&P Global Market Intelligence, S&P Dow Jones Indices, S&P Global Commodity Insights, and S&P Global Mobility.
1  
S&P Global has been a leader of AI in financial markets since its acquisition of Kensho Technologies in 2018.
2 Leveraging its AI and machine learning (ML) capabilities, Kensho is 
automating core workflows and transforming the way data is ingested, linked and tagged, and how insights are discovered , for S&P Global and its customers.
3 Kensho’s core 
capabilities include ML, natural -language processing (NLP), and data discovery. S&P 
Global is combining Kensho’s AI/ML technology with its unparalleled datasets to create a significant competitive advantage for our customers.  
1 This response does not necessarily  reflect the views of S&P Global ’s business divisions or their analysts.  
2 Kensho Technologies, Inc. (2025), Available at: https://kensho.com/ .  
3 Details on Kensho solutions, Available at: https://kensho.com/solutions .  


2 Sound oversight of AI tools and  applications should include a risk -based approach, 
leverage industry-specific governmental expertise within regulatory agencies , and seek to 
address and mitigate AI risks, not to regulate the technology itself . Any federal policy 
should aim to provide additional clarity to the entire AI value c hain and be as globally 
aligned as possible.  
The United States can  support continued leadership in AI through access to government 
data, promotion of competition based on adherence to model development best practices 
and responsible AI development principles, and further investment in infrastructure 
necessary to facilitate AI  development and implementation.  
Prioritize Risk -based Approach to AI  
Policymakers should be cognizant of the variance in risk levels between the applications of 
AI tools, particularly within the same industry, and should  not seek to regulate all AI 
applications uniformly. Regulators should weigh the risks of a given application against its benefits in analyzing overall risk levels.  
•The 
federal government and its regulatory agencies have significant expertise in the
industries  they oversee . S&P Global encourages regulators to leverage their
expertise to oversee the use of AI within industries  under their purview , recognizing
the nuances of risk levels in different industries. S&P Global believes that in many
commercial sectors, especially financial services, many of the existing laws and
regulations  designed to be technology neutral are sufficient to address the potential
risks posed by AI.
•The AI Action Plan should seek to minimize the introduction of new , AI-specific
regulations in lieu of applying existing technology -neutral rules in a risk -based
manner. Where new policies are deemed necessary, they should also be framed ina technology -neutral way rather than focusing exclusively on AI.
As policymakers think through liabilities and protections for today’s shifting AI landscape, 
it’s important to consider the implications for AI deployers  who build on third -party models, 
and to extend liability protections that encourage innovation and lower barriers to entry.  
•Few companies have the skilled workers and resources to create cutting -edge AI
models, such as large language models (LLMs), fully in -house.  Downstream,  many
AI product deployers  are reliant on third -part y AI models when creating AI
applications, upon which they may build products while leveraging proprietary data.


3 •As such, deployers  reliant on third -party models face potential legal liability when a
problem is discovered in the base model , a deep learning model trained on a large
dataset to learn general patterns, which can then be ﬁne -tuned for speciﬁc tasks .
These problems could impact the end product ’s utility, accuracy, or ecectiveness.
Therefore, it is crucial for companies to understand the scope of their liability. The AI
Action Plan  should call for  speciﬁc liability safe harbor s for deployers that build AI
applications and products on top of thir d party LLMs for faults not controllable by
the end deployer . Such safe harbors would help foster greater AI growth , including
within regulated markets.
Recommendations  
•Encourage regulators to utilize a risk-based approach to AI oversight, weighing the
risks created by the application of an AI model against the benefits it provides.
•Clearly define risk levels within given industries , and link compliance and reporting
obligations to risk levels by industry.
•Support the establishment of a federal data privacy law4, which would provide a
baseline for individual protections from AI models and would preempt the current
patchwork of state laws.
•Establish statutory definition s of “AI Developers,” “AI Deployers, ” and other  actors
within the AI value chain.  Clarify differentiated liability risks for each  and support
the establishment of a safe harbor for deployers from unintended  consequences or
risks created by a deployer’s underlying AI model.
Promote Global Alignment  
The  nascency of artif icial inte lligence, lack of a regulatory regime, and lack of clarity in the 
application of existing regulations has led to increasing risks and uncertainty around policies and regulatory  oversight of AI. AI models, and the data necessary to develop and 
maintain models, are inherently cross-border in nature.
 Cloud computing infrastructure is 
decentralized , and data and compute resources are globally accessible . S&P Global urges 
policymakers to work towards reducing AI regulatory uncertainty and cross-border risk through international collaboration, fostering policy alignment where possible. 
4 A federal data protection law is currently being considered by the House of Representatives, through its 
new ly formed  Data Privacy Working G roup. House Energy and Commerce Committee, Chairman Guthrie and 
Vice Chairman Joyce Issue Request for Information to Explore Data Privacy and Security Framework  (Feb. 
2025), available at: https://energycommerce.house.gov/posts/chairman- guthrie- and -vice- chairman -joyce -
issue -request- for-information -to-explore -data- privacy -and -security -framework .  


 
 
 4 As of 202 5, 47 countries have signed on to adhere to the Organisation  for Economic Co-
operation and Development’s (OECD ) AI Principles framework. The U.S. , under President 
Trump’s administration, was among the initial signatories of this framework in 2019.5 While 
we recognize that policy regimes will differ depending on their jurisdiction, we  support 
agreements like OECD’s AI Principles framework and encourage the government to 
continue to engage in multilaterally on AI policy framework development. Global AI policy 
alignment will limit barriers to entry for American companies and help businesses maintain access to global markets, while also ensuring American AI applications power the future.  
Recommendations  
•
Support the development of international AI risk management and governance 
frameworks, such as the G7’s Hiroshima Process, which aim to provide global 
consistency.  
•Support the implementation of Data Free Flow with Trust (DFFT) frameworks and the 
open exchange of data between countries , as proposed in 2023 at the G7 and G20 .  
•Encourage NIST ’s AI Safety In stitute to engage other AI safety and se curity  institutes 
around the world on policy alignment.  
Data Access 
 
Government-sourced data is an important resource for industry and is at the core of S&P Global’s business. From SEC filings to trade data from Customs and Border Protection, government data is, and will continue to be, a crucial input to our products. AI model 
development wil l increase demand for high quality data for  model training and the 
government can help foster AI innovation by providing high quality data sets for public use.  
 Recommendations  
•Establish data transparency as the policy of the United States where possible without jeopardizing national security .  
•Support the continued disclosure of government data sets for market use and 
consider establishing new data streams to improve access to high-quality data.  
•Consider requesting further public input on which government-derived  data sets are 
actively utilized by industry, which could be improved or are sought for publication, 
and to identify other opportunities for public-private collaboration on data.  
 
 
5 The White House , Artificial Intelligence for the American People: AI with American Values  (2019).  Available 
at:  https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/ai/ai -american -values/ . 


 
 
 5 Quality-based Competition & High-risk Application  Model Risk Assessments  
AI model developers should compete on a baseline standard of model q uality and 
adherence to industry-specific responsible AI principles. Encouraging regulators to 
develop and establish baseline responsible AI principles would benefit enterprise and retail AI users who would be free to evaluate models based on utility, alleviate the need for 
unnecessary due diligence , and provide a road map for developers to mitigate risks and 
increase  market access. 
 For high-risk use cases, policymakers should consider encouraging the voluntary use of 
independent, third-party assessments of model risk based on factors such as: 
transparency, adherence to industry best practices, responsible AI principles, codes of 
conduct, and other benchmarks. Such analyses would benefit AI deployers and end users in selecting models for a given application
, improve competition,  and ensure models 
compete on the quality of the underlying model.  
Recommendations  
•Support the development of industry -speciﬁc responsible AI principles, to be 
developed in collaboration with public and private sector stakeholders .  
•Encourage accountability for model quality  through market -based solutions, such 
as independent  assessments of model risk and quality.  
Energy for AI Development 
In the third quarter of 2024, US datacenter power demand surged to nearly 46, 000 
Megawatts (MW), enough to power more than 30 million homes for a day, and S&P Global 
projects that U.S. datacenters will consume nearly 800 Terawatt hours (TWh) of energy in 2030, more than doubling consumption from 2024 levels.
6 America’s current energy supply 
may be insufficient to meet expected demand . Artificial intelligence, and its associated 
data centers, are a leading driver of energy demand in America, and supply must  keep 
pace.   It takes two to three years to design, permit, and build a data center. However , timelines 
for power generation resources can extend to five years or more.
7 Narrowing this gap 
between data center construction and power generation capacity development timelines 
will be crucial in maintaining America’s competitive advantage on AI.  
 
6 https://www.capitaliq.spglobal.com/apisv3/spg -webplatform -
core/news/article?id=87834977&KeyProductLinkType=58&utm_source=MIAlerts&utm_medium=realtime -
minewsresearch -newsfeature- all-insight%20weekly&utm_campaign=Alert_Email 
7 https://www.spglobal.com/en/research- insights/special -reports/look -forward/ai- and -energy  


 
 
 6  
Supporting rapid, near-term growth in electricity demand will require squeezing more from existing power generation capacity and delivering new infrastructure at a rapid pace. The impacts of the energy production gap will be felt in regions with greater load growth . AI can  
help ease the energy burden through increased efficiencies. As an example, u tilities  are 
increasingly looking to “grid enhancing technologies” such as dynamic line ratings, which often use machine learning technologies, to increase existing grid utilization . This 
technology is already being leveraged in Texas, New York, Ohio, and Indiana.
8 
Recommendations  
•Support the growth of efficient, renewable, energy sources for increasing US energy supply. 
•Reduce and streamline environmental permitting processes necessary for beginning new energy production projects. 
•Encourage the use of AI and innovative technologies to find efficiencies in 
America’s existing energy production infrastructure and to guide future development. 
S&P Global appreciates the opportunity to provide comment on the development of the AI 
Action Plan and we look forward to working with the government on its implementation. In prioritizing a risk-based approach, improving clarity for AI developers and deployers, maintaining global alignment, and supporting investments in energy production, the AI Action Plan will help ensure the United S tates continues to lead the world in AI 
development and innovation.   Sincerely,  
 
Darlene J. Bright Global Head of Government Affairs & Public Policy S&P Global 
 
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or conﬁdential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  
 
8 https://www.spglobal.com/en/research- insights/special -reports/look -forward/ai- and -energy  


