PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-vnc0-sm nv
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3624
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Nat Gertler  
General Comment
I am  both a writer and the publisher of a sm all publishing line, About Com ics. As a writer, I create copyrighted content, and as a
publisher, I license copyrighted content from  others for publishing. The copyrighted content that Am erica creates is one of its great
strengths -- the world devour our m ovies, our TV shows, our m usic, our com ic books, and m ore, both generating incom e for Am erican
creators and com panies and acting as am bassador for Am erica around the world. Whether it be Friends, Iron Man, or Snoopy, the world
takes inspiration from  Am erican creative product.
People at heavily-funded, m oney-losing AI com panies are asking that creators sacrifice their rights and allow AI to be "trained" to copy
their product. This product, derived from  all these copyrighted creative work, will be in com petition with the m aterial it was trained on. In
addition, the works created by AI m ay not be copyrightable them selves, not only in other countries, but even in the US itself, where
existing case law stands against it. As such, it will be quite lim ited in how effectively it can be m onetized. Sm oothing the path for this is like
taking apart a dollar-printing m achine so the parts can be used to m ake nickels.
Am erica has a large body of work in the public dom ain, m uch that is quite wonderful and creative. If Large Language Models m ust be
trained, let them  feed on that feast. If it m ust feast on new stuff to do what they seek to do, then it's looking to copy its novelty, which is
m uch the thing that copyright was intended to defend.
AI has a lot of potential in research, in finding interesting patterns and prospects that hum ans cannot find. Its use in the creative arts,
however, is likely to injur the very creative part of that, the thing of m ost value, and to do it at the expense of hard working creators.
Please do not take steps with that as the goal.


