PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-j8ev-v95v
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1632
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Our copyright laws exist to protect business owners from  those who would wish to take advantage of them , and enable creatives to
enhance the entertainm ent industry with unique ideas that enhance the m arket for the better. Artificial Intelligence, in its current form ,
violates those sacred laws that not only protect those business owners who have a passion for their work, and enhance the m arket as a
result, but also it will violate the consum er as well, whose trust m ay never be restored in the business that use AI to cut corners in an
industry where your passion and creativity MUST be genuine in order to succeed. 
There IS NO way to research AI to be m ore ethical and useful without stealing terabytes of data from  those businesses, and shafting those
businesses out of their product with a hallucinogenic im itation of creativity created by a m achine that is ONLY DESIGNED to do exactly
what it is told to do using a series of instructions that control electrical switches to do only one of two things: Close a circuit, or open it.
As an electrician in your country, I believe that your m oney is better spent on expanding the fiber optic network in the US to be
nationwide. Your m oney is better spent on im proving the designs of electric vehicles to allow them  to last longer than 10 years. Your
m oney is better spent on a nationwide rail system  to allow your citizens to get to work without risking their lives on dangerous roads. You
m oney is better spent on im proving the cleanliness and safety of nuclear power, allowing the US to utilize the very thing that we used to
wipe two cities in Japan off the m ap to not only power our own nation, but our allies in Canada and Mexico as well. If you want to put
Am erica First, invest in all Am ericans from  all walks of life to better their lives. Do not invest in AI, which will only give it the potential to
m ake it infinitely worse.


