PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-9c4a-rl3k
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1456
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  LearnerStudio
General Comment
See attached file(s). Thank you.
Attachments
public com m ent AI


LearnerStudio's Commitment to Human Flourishing in the AI Action Plan
LearnerStudio appreciates the Trump Administration's foresight in initiating the development of 
a comprehensive Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan, as outlined in the Presidential Executive 
Order of January 23, 2025. We recognize this pivotal step towards ensuring AI's transformative 
potential directly enhances American economic strength and human flourishing across America. 
We are dedicated to contributing to a future where AI empowers individuals to reach their full 
potential, strengthens the fabric of our communities, and reinforces the core tenets of American 
values. As the Administration has rightly recognized, America is strengthened when it leads the 
world in ensuring that AI promotes the skills and dispositions that Americans will need in the 
future. We applaud the Office of Science and Technology Policy’s (OSTP) request for 
information through the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development 
(NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO) of the National Science Foundation, as it opens a 
vital dialogue to define policy actions that prioritize human flourishing and maintain America’s AI 
leadership. 
Defining Human Flourishing
Human flourishing, as envisioned through American values, relies on enabling the 
interconnected pillars of hard work; personal responsibility; accessible opportunity; and strong, 
connected individuals and communities. AI must be leveraged to strengthen these pillars by: 
creating pathways to good jobs and economic stability and growth, strengthening strong social 
bonds within and across families and communities, extending access to high quality education 
and skills development to fuel American innovation and global competitiveness, and ensuring 
security and sovereignty in the age of AI.
Prioritizing Human Flourishing Through Uniquely Human Skills in the AI Action Plan
AI is poised to have significant impacts on everyday life, careers, and communities. To ensure 
that America continues to lead the world in global competitiveness, the AI Action Plan must 
prioritize not only technical security and preeminence but also strengthen the widespread 
development of uniquely human skills, i.e. the skills necessary for human flourishing in an AI-
driven world. 
To that end, the AI Action Plan should:
1.Prioritize human flourishing by:
a.Establishing comprehensive guidelines and frameworks  that clearly define
and prioritize the development of AI literacy and readiness skills across all
educational levels (PK-12, higher education, and workforce). Americans must not
only understand AI but also be equipped to navigate its complexities, lead its
development, and compete with their human advantage so that America and its
workforce and communities are strengthened.
b.Investing in enhancing educator roles and preparedness  to effectively
integrate and leverage AI into teaching and learning. This investment will enable
educators to effectively “be in the loop” on AI implementation, and to better
develop in young people the future-proof skills that enable them to have good
jobs, support their families, and contribute to American society.
c.Promoting the cultivation of essential human skills  such as critical thinking,
discernment, communication, adaptability, collaboration, creativity and


innovation, leadership, lifelong learning, digital literacy, ethical reasoning, 
perspective taking, and the ability to form strong human relationships and 
community connections – even as AI “agents” begin to take on more roles in our 
world. 
d.Supporting strategies that equip Americans to not only understand AI but
to actively shape its development and applications,  including quality, efficacy
and ethical use of AI, leveraging these unique human strengths to ensure
American competitiveness and community strength.
2.Implement human-centered AI governance:
a.Create an advisory board  dedicated to ensuring AI development remains
human-centered, prioritizing humans in the loop to ensure human flourishing, and
avoiding bias in underlying models or unintended negative consequences.
b.Mandate that AI development aligns with fundamental American values and
freedoms,  ensuring it serves individual liberty and community flourishing.
c.Develop and enforce ethical guidelines and regulatory frameworks  that
protect Americans’ data sovereignty, mitigate bias, ensure privacy, and promote
individual liberty and freedom in the age of AI – while balancing nimbleness and
adaptability given rapid changes in this sector.
3.Safeguard American jobs, relationships, and freedom:
a.Implement policies that ensure AI enhances, rather than replaces,
American jobs and human connections,  fostering growth and development for
all.
b.Implement strong national security measures  to ensure AI development
aligns with American interests, safeguards sensitive information, and prevents
undue foreign or special interest influence.
Cultivating Human Flourishing Through Collaborative AI Development
LearnerStudio believes that by implementing these priority actions and engaging in cross-sector 
public-private partnerships, the AI Action Plan can effectively harness AI to cultivate human 
flourishing for all Americans. We are committed to supporting the administration’s efforts to 
create a future where AI strengthens our economy and country by enhancing our education 
system, thereby empowering individuals to live fulfilling lives in strong communities. Through 
collaborative efforts, we can ensure AI serves as a catalyst for increasing human potential, 
reinforcing our core American values. We look forward to contributing to the development of this 
crucial plan and working together to shape a future where AI drives innovation and prosperity, 
and centers and enables human flourishing.


