PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-01du-k8m a
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6291
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Yale Stewart   
Email: 
General Comment
While I will be using "I" throughout this com m ent, I know that m y thoughts are shared by the rest of the art com m unity. I have spent m y
entire life honing both m y craft and m y voice in the arts. I have done so through hard work, and a conscious and cultivated choosing of
things to be inspired by and to incorporate into m y own work. For every influence I wanted to em ulate or learn from , I had to choose
others not to pursue, as I am  only hum an and only have so m uch tim e and energy to put towards m y work. That AI can sim ply scrape
every piece of work I've ever created and feed it into it algorithm  so that any person can just "request" an im age by m e is disgusting. AI is
the worst possible version of a m iddle m an. It takes without asking, and gives nothing in return to who it takes from . That im age created
by AI vom iting back out an approxim ation of m y work; it doesn't exist without m y work in the first place, yet I receive no com pensation
for its production. In what world is that fair? There is no such world. This is sim ply a tool to hoover up skilled labor at literally zero cost,
and regurgitate it out at anyone's request. Without going into a com plete tangent, that alone is another problem : an artist's work is their
voice. I shudder to think at an AI generated im age in m y voice showing support for a cause I abhor. We've already seen this in the
pornography industry, with celebrities being Deepfaked into pornographic film s without their consent. Now with generative AI som eone
could conjure up a "drawing" by m e involving two m inors having sex. Through no choice of m y own, there would now be a highly
offensive and disturbing im age out there that laypeople would think that I produced.
Everything about this is disgusting, and I beg you to refuse to approve it.


