PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-pcgg-87qy
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1703
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
The lack of regard for protections of the com m on folk is laughable. No one wants generative AI to dictate life. It legitim ately does not help
ANYONE nor does it m ake anyone’s quality of life better. There are so m any com m ents about foreign spyware, however, dom estic
spyware and com m ercialization of sensitive, private inform ation is allowed? 
I find that difficult to believe. So m any com panies run their businesses off of software such as Google Docs /Sheets and Microsoft
Word/Excel. Yet, they’ve been allowed to train their system s off of private inform ation entered in these software. How is that not an
infringem ent on our rights and how is that not cause for concern? People are entering their banking inform ation, social security, and other
form s of personal inform ation into these docum ents for form al docum entation yet som ehow, it’s been cleared for big tech such as Google,
Microsoft, and Meta to train their AI for frankly, nefarious reasons?
There is absolutely NO reason why these com panies should be allowed to use peoples’ likeness for anything without their consent. There
is absolutely NO reason as to why com panies should be allowed to use intellectual properties that they do not own the rights to for
absolutely anything. They already have billions of dollars in revenue. They can buy the rights if they want to use anyone’s intellectual
property. 
If m usicians and their com panies can kick up a fuss over people using their m usic for trends or whatever it is they’re m ad over, big tech
can afford to buy the rights to peoples’ intellectual property. If it’s art and photography? They have the m eans to afford them . There is
NO VALID REASON for big tech such as Google, Meta, Apple, and Microsoft to scrape data that does not belong to them  for
“technology” that has no practical use and no actual purpose in existing. 
People can’t apply for jobs without getting their inform ation such as phone num bers and em ail addresses leaked and spam m ed beyond
reason. 
Instead of trying to solve a problem  that doesn’t exist nor needs to exist, m aybe you all should focus m ore on actual cyber/inform ation
security and not m isguided, selfish, and poorly enacted bills/laws that do m ore harm  than good. 
Generative AI is a direct infringem ent on Am erican rights and security. This is not technological progression, this is regression. There is no
innovation involved with generative AI, only free farm ing of inform ation to further capitalistic greed. There is nothing generative AI can
provide that sim ple, hum an powered creation can’t do and cover. 
Instead of fostering a nation to be an even bigger laughing stock to other “developed” nations in the world, perhaps you all should be
fostering m ore creative and technological program s that teach people critical thinking and innovative, non-harm ful, ideas, products, and
system s. 
“If we don’t invest in generative AI then we’ll lose to China.” 
Maybe it’s not generative AI. Maybe it’s the severe lack of education and opportunities for innovators to gain recognition and funding to
com pete with other foreign powers. Any form  of creative and technological freedom  and advancem ent has been stunted because any new
idea that gets introduced has been stifled and shut down before it gets off of the ground or loose notes stage. 
We’ve long since lost to China. The US is classified as a first world country yet literacy rates are at an all tim e low and livable wage isn’t


even guaranteed. Technology hasn’t advanced since 2007. 
Talent is ignored and thrown away in favor for the sam e big com panies to regurgitate the sam e 4 ideas over and over again. 
Again, generative AI will not save us. It is not the type of innovation that will enhance life as we know it. It will not allow for the country to
prosper. It will further the rhetoric of the US being a laughing stock and joke of a nation. 
Do better.


