PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-woj7-a5ea
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3987
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I am  subm itting this com m ent to the National Science Foundation in regards to docum ent 2025-02305 (90 FR 9088), the so-called
Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of "Artificial Intelligence" Action Plan. (note: I will be referring to "ai" exclusively in quotes
because there is currently no true artificial intelligence in existence) Specifically, I wish to address the possibility that, via this proposal,
generative "ai" com panies such as OpenAI et al will be given free legal reign to steal artists' work for use in training data without consent of
or com pensation to the artists involved. This is a blatant violation of the rights of artists to their own work. We pour our blood, sweat, and
tears into every piece we m ake, and allowing just any random  joe schm oe to throw it into a program  and type in a little blurb to m ake it
churn out slop is an insult to anyone who has ever bothered to pick up a pencil. Generative "ai" is being used to replace, and thus take
jobs from , hum an artists by scraping and stealing their hard work. That's just the issues that's personal to m e as an artist, let alone the
bigger issues: so-called "ai" wastes tens of thousands of gallons of water per day in the SMALL data centers, and ram pant "ai" use in
governm ental affairs is legitim ately dangerous, especially if it is used in areas such as law enforcem ent and national security. These
generative program s are used in ways that rob Am ericans of their livelihood and potentially their physical safety. A m ore appropriate
approach would be to dissolve com panies such as OpenAI and lim it the usage of program s like Midjourney, ChatGPT, Google's Gem ini,
Microsoft's Copilot, etc., but I am  unfortunately extrem ely aware that asking this adm inistration to take the appropriate approach to pretty
m uch anything is a hard ask.
Also, let's think about this practically for a second: if this passes, do you honestly think big m edia com panies such as Disney will let this
stand? They're already responsible for m ost of how copyright law works nowadays anyway, and while I personally don't care for what
they've done I know for a fact that they will absolutely wreck house if som ething gets in the way of their iron grip on their IPs. I'm  just
warning you about the inevitability.


