PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2jpj-tk88
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8370
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Declan Galleher
Address: United States, 
Em ail:  
General Comment
AI in its current iteration of LLMs and im age generators are, for the m ost part, a solution looking for a problem . The prim ary use cases
have been students cheating on assignm ents and grifters being able to pum p out scam s m ore easily. OpenAI has lost billions of dollars of
VC funding and have adm itted that their m ain plan for becom ing profitable is to create a hypothetical artificial general intelligence that will
tell them  how to becom e profitable. This fantasy is based on absolutely no evidence that som ething like what they im agine is even possible.
OpenAI built this plagiarism  m achine on the intellectual property of the countless authors and artist who gave no consent for this to happen
and given no warning that it would. This abuse of intellectual property has coincided with the waste of huge am ounts of fuel and electricity
to keep the servers afloat all while doing nothing m ore interesting than sum m erizing a few em ails. None of this deserves any reward by the
US governm ent. AI is not the future, and not a reason to m ake it easier to use others intellectual property without perm ission to fund
business interests. Big tech has not given the general population a significant advancem ent in the years since the sm artphone hit the scene,
and their desire fore infinite growth has finally leveled out. No m atter how badly they want these AIs to be that next big thing that will sent
their stock prices back into the stratosphere, it won't work. If AI was truly the next big thing, they would have to spend so m uch tim e and
m oney trying to convince the average person it's som ething they need. And just because they're spending a lot of m oney now doesn't
m ean that will turn into profits in the future. Am azon and Uber lost m oney for years creating them selves m onopolies in already existing
m arkets and then jacking their prices once that process was com plete to then becom e profitable. OpenAI doesn't function like that.
They're not disrupting existing m arkets, they're only pushing to have their tech to be stapled on as a feature to other existing technologies.
That's not a product that people feel like they can't live without. This is all a confidence gam e based on dream s of science fiction becom ing
a reality. Do not reward this behavior. Nothing will com e of this but resources wasted and artists hard work abused.


