PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-x6va-ub0s
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4246
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Rachel 
Keslensky  
General Comment
AI "artwork" is garbage. 
As a sequential artist, I often look for inspiration from  other artists, and will seek out m ore of an artist's work if I see one piece of theirs
that I like. 
The nature of AI "artwork" is irreproducible -- asking for AI to generate an im age from  the sam e prom pt nine tim es produces nine
dram atically different pieces, all of different styles, characters, and settings. It is im possible to get AI to produce slight variations of pieces
or draw the sam e character in a new way (see also: the children's book "Alice and Sparkle"), and m ore im portantly, there is no body of
sim ilar artwork to view from  any given im age you m ight want to see m ore of.
The end result is that, from  a standpoint of inspiration, AI "artwork" is the creative equivalent of a condom : a dead end with nowhere to
go. There is no artist to hire or conversation to be had. There is no body of artwork to browse. There is nothing to follow up with.
The only people who want to replace hum ans with AI are those who have no intention of supporting hum an jobs to begin with. The
num ber of com panies who see AI as an alternative for those pesky hum ans with their civil liberties and dem ands for a living wage is too
m any to count.
Also, m any artists I know are unwilling to work for people with offensive political views they find m orally reprehensible; those individuals
are especially em powered by AI that will create their political propaganda without any pushback or disagreem ent whatsoever. This allows
offensive content to spread further than it would have if a hum an em ployee or contractor had sim ply refused to draw such things. It also
reduces the ability for hum an workers to use such threats of refusal as leverage, if an AI can produce a "good enough" replacem ent. AI is
the m etaphorical scab crossing the picket line, and does so at a price no hum an could ever com pete with.
I have friends who have worked as "quality control" contractors for AI com panies like Outlier, which offers what is best described as a
series of glorified m echanical Turks. Despite the "boom ing" AI m arket, there is often not enough work to go around even there, as
com panies discover the shortcom ings of these AI offerings and contracts dry up.
Put sim ply: the output of AI is terrible, it em powers terrible people with terrible opinions to interfere with dem ocracy, and the job m arket
is m ade worse by com panies who don't care how terrible the output is, so long as it's cheaper than a pesky hum an that m ight dare to
disagree. Unless and until you can fix those problem s, AI is sim ply not worth it.


