PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-z5it-8hco
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5567
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Jillian Sauers
Address: United States, 
Em ail:  
General Comment
Artificial intelligence usage has m any harm ful things attached to it, and it should not be applied in governm ent decision m aking processes or
databases, and should be restricted for the following reasons:
Intellectual property theft. Scraping the internet for collected film s, art, and books is a nightm are for com panies that sell creative products
as well as the creators who produce them . If a m odel can spit out a slightly tweaked copy of a Disney m ovie, Disney's value plum m ets.
Plus the quality of what it produces is so m uch worse like if dust gets into your copier all those bits of dirt wind up showing in the final
product.
It m akes us less intelligent. From  term  papers to lawsuits, glaring errors have been published in hum iliating ways showing the students or
lawyers in question took a cheater's shortcut using ChatGPT and it m ade facts, citations, and lawsuits up out of whole cloth. That is
unacceptable in m ost lines of work and can cause literal deaths if m isapplied in high stakes trials. It prevents true learning and thinking your
way through problem s.
It is disastrous for the environm ent. The chips and power center usage it goes through are unbelievable and will hasten clim ate change.
https://kleinm anenergy.upenn.edu/com m entary/podcast/why-ai-consum es-so-m uch-energy-and-what-m ight-be-done-about-it/
It takes people's jobs and overworks the ones who aren't laid off. You m ay think you're saving a 100k laying off a copywriter or ad exec
but the quality it produces is not of the sam e caliber as hum an work and m any people are disgusted by that kind of laziness and choose to
boycott com panies that use it. Look at the recent Tesla dealership on Mars art slop that couldn't even spell the com pany's nam e right. A
norm al ad agency would be fired on the spot if that was released. A hum an would need to m anually fix it, causing m ore work than if you
had just paid som eone to do the work correctly in the first place.
It is expensive. The com panies only survive on venture capital funding rounds, not paying custom ers. It costs m ore to plug it into
everyone's everyday life than the return on the investm ent. The product is not good enough to warrant the buy-in.
AI m ay have possible applications in the future and m ore research at an academ ic level with controlled studies m ay be warranted, but it
has no place in databases, courts, or where people's lives and paychecks are at stake in its current iteration.


