PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-cq59-xl2v
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1898
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Hi, local independent creative speaking. Not only does even considering this m ake little to no sense, but letting this go through will literally
benefit NOBODY in the long run. The creative industry as you and I know it WILL crash and burn, leaving both the workers and
business owners in the dirt and, inevitably, penniless. In term s of processing power for these generative AI m odels, they will cost the
public and the tech com panies replacing hum ans with them  m ore to operate than if they would've just, ooh, I don't know... paid their real,
hum an workers fairly? By putting this through, you will be dam ning the econom y and the environm ent just to save a few bucks in the short
term .
In term s of basic com m on sense, the "unnecessarily burdensom e requirem ents" m entioned in the sum m ary that are ham pering "private
sector AI innovation" are called people. Those people — who are asking for theft protection and insurance for their work and output in
ANY industry, be it creative, educational, technical, clerical — have just been watered down to "unnecessarily burdensom e
requirem ents". I need whoever is reading this, whoever is considering this to be even a m ildly good idea, that utilizing generative AI in any
capacity that would replace hum an work WILL NOT WORK. That's the long and short of it. It won't work. This technology is still very
m uch in its infancy and utilizing it to such a level WILL NOT WORK. By putting this through, you will dam n yourselves as
businessm en/wom en, you will dam n every corner of the econom y where real people with real experience will be laid off and replaced, you
will dam n your children in schools where teachers will no longer be teaching them  what's real and what's fake, and there will be no way to
avoid its downfall. This proposed use of Generative AI will crash and burn and will take this entire country down with it.
You will be putting the fate of this country's econom y, workforce, and reputation in the hands of som ething fake. That is what "artificial"
m eans, right? Pretty sure we all went to school at once point and learned what synonym s are. It's fake intelligence. You want us to be
dom inant with "fake intelligence". If you cannot hear how absolutely backwards that sounds, you shouldn't be putting this through because,
clearly, you don't have enough knowledge on this technology to m ake this drastic of a change.


