PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-wyp3-3a88
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4127
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Hey, do you realize what you're doing with this? Like, are you aware of just how m any people — not just individuals but also entire
com panies — you're going to be m assively harm ing with this? Do you really want hum anity to be devoid of things that actually m ake us
hum an and m ake life worth living and instead just m ake us all have stitched together rem nants of pre-existing stolen and plagerized works
with zero effort or m eaning or actual hum anity behind them ? You want the jobs of people like artists to becom e obsolete and raise the
unem ploym ent rate even higher than it already is? You prefer m achine-generated slop over som ething with real quality to it? Is that what
you're feeling here? Should all of the work you've ever done in your life be rendered m eaningless and stolen from  you and credited to
m any others who barely lifted a finger? Should you be fired for inadequate m achines to take your place for no reason other than they can?
All perfectly legally, without you being able to do a single thing about it? Should art m useum s just be replaced with junkyards of things that
no one wants to even look at? Should schools stop bothering to teach writing or art because it doesn't m atter anym ore? Should we stop
m aking m ovies that have any em otion or effort in them  because AI can produce them  too? Shows? Books? How about clothing and
costum e designers? Architectures? Engineers? You want to live in a building that's as structurally sound as som e m indless program 's
disjointed generative im ages deem  it to be instead of som ething hum an beings tested and constructed and illustrated based on decades of
education and experience they have on their side, not to m ention their personal knowledge of what fellow hum ans enjoy and how to
m aintain their safety? I could go on! Doing this is just opening the door for a m eaningless, incredibly unsafe, and altogether utterly lifeless
existence. If starving hom eless people can't even get food they can't afford without being arrested, why should people who already have
plenty of m oney be allowed to freely steal things they don't even need to take? This shouldn't even be a debate. It's very clearly m orally
wrong, not to m ention just plain illogical and unjust altogether. You need to put an end to this im m ediately before you create a disaster you
can't undo.


