PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 88-waoz-oskr
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1348
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  SAFE Center for Grid Security
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
SAFE CGS National AI Action Plan Com m ents Final


To: National Science Foundation (NSF)  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination 
Office (NCO)  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
From:  Danielle Russo, Executive Director, Center for Grid Security, SAFE  
Re: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Date:  03.10.2025  
Pursuant to the National Science Foundation’s  (NSF ) “Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan ,”1 SAFE provides the following comments.  
I.COMMUNICATIONS
All correspondence and communication concerning this filing should be directed to:  
Avery Ash  
Senior Vice President of Government Relations, SAFE  
1111 19th Street NW #406  
Washington, D.C. 20036  
II. INTRODUCTION TO SAFE
SAFE is an action -oriented, nonpartisan organization committed to transportation, energy, and supply chain
policies that advance the economic and national security of the United States, its partners, and allies. SAFE’s
Center for Grid Security (CGS) provid es policy analysis and recommendations to build out the national power
grid—ensuring America’s energy and national security. The Ce nter  actively engages federal - and state -level
policymakers, the Department of Defense (DoD), and other key stakeholders to e nsure grid modernization and
expansion prioritizes American national interests.
III. COMMENTS
1 National Science Foundation,  “Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan ,” Doc ument  
No.  2025 -02305 , February  6, 202 5.  


SAFE’s C GS applauds the Trump Administration’s commitment to securing U.S. leadership in artificial intelligence 
(AI) through a National AI Action Plan. As AI continues to shape America’s technological and economic future, it is 
crucial to ensure that the nation’s electric grid has the resilience and capacity to sustain this innovation to protect 
our economic and national security.  
Several recent Executive Orders from the Administration underscore the strategic imperative of meeting the 
rapidly rising demand for electricity in support of AI expansion. However, there is a critical mismatch between the 
speed of the AI industry’s expansion and the ability of the grid to supply  resilient, reliable, and affordable power. 
While new AI facilities can be constructed in one to two years, bringing new energy generation online to support 
such facilities can take more than four years, and building necessary transmission infrastructure t akes even 
longer.  Without urgent action, America’s energy infrastructure will struggle to keep pace with this and other 
industries that define our future competitiveness.  
In support of a National AI Action Plan, SAFE ’s CGS  offers the attached report, titled “Wired for Defense: The 
National Security Imperative of Transmission Expansion,” which studies the throughline connecting domestic 
generation and transmission expansion needs, AI growth for national security, and U.S.  miliary capability.2 SAFE 
also strongly encourages the Administration to consider the following key priorities in a National AI Action Plan:  
• Align transmission planning with AI development : Ensure that transmission expansion plans are
synchronized with the projected growth of AI facilities to prevent bottlenecks and support seamless
integration. Accelerate permitting and investment in transmission projects to ensure the grid can
accommodate  the rapid growth in electricity demand driven by AI and other strategic industries.
• Prioritize AI for national defense energy systems : Prioritize energy projects based on their support of AI
applications that enhance the resilience and operational efficiency of military energy infrastructure, reducing
vulnerabilities and ensuring mission readiness.
• Implement grid -enhancing technologies (GETs) : Adopt technologies that improve the efficiency and
capacity of existing transmission lines, offering faster solutions to increasing grid capacity without the need for
new construction.
• Scale grid -level capacity for strategic industries : AI innovation and manufacturing growth require significant
new investments in electricity generation and transmission. A more cost -effective approach to ensuring
reliability is rapidly expanding interregional transmission  through permitting reform, which can deliver power at
a fraction of the cost of new local generation and reduce the risk of grid bottlenecks.3
2 Danielle Russo, “Wired for Defense: The National Security Imperative of Transmission Expansion,” SAFE Center for Grid Securit y, 
November 22, 2024.  
3 John D. Wilson, Zach Zimmerman, and Rob Gramlich, “Strategic Industries Surging: Driving US Power Demand,” Grid Strategies, 
December 2024, at 6.  


• Mitigate supply chain risks by boosting domestic manufacturing for grid power and AI : AI-driven
infrastructure must be protected from adversarial threats, including cyber intrusions and supply chain
vulnerabilities, particularly those linked to foreign -controlled technologies. Identifying and securing the energy
needs to boost domestic ma nufacturing of such infrastructure will be needed to fully protect America’s AI
posture.
SAFE looks forward to the publishing of a National AI Action Plan that strengthens both America’s economic and 
national security while safeguarding the resilience of the U.S. energy grid.  
Respectfully Submitted,  
/s/ Danielle Russo  
Danielle Russo  
Executive Director, Center for Grid Security , SAFE  
1111 19th Street NW  
Washington, D.C. 20036  


