PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3x8n-m t5o
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9554
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Ky Miera  
General Comment
Instructions on subm itting for the “Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan” by the
National Science Foundation
Thank you for taking the tim e to subm it your public com m ent! Com m ents m ust be subm itted by 3/15/2025 by 11:59 pm  EST!!
Copy the letter found on two pages after this page into a new text docum ent.
Fill in the appropriate sections for [YOUR NAME], [YOUR PROFESSION], [YOUR ADDRESS] near the top of the letter, or rem ove
those if you intend to subm it anonym ously.
Feel free to use the letter as is or adjust it to your preference, or write your own.
Export your docum ent as a PDF, DOCX, or sim ilar.
Go to this URL: https://www.federalregister.gov/docum ents/2025/02/06/2025-02305/request-for-inform ation-on-the-developm ent-of-
an-artificial-intelligence-ai-action-plan
Click the green “SUBMIT A PUBLIC COMMENT” button near the top of the page.
Under “Upload File(s)” click the green button “+ Add a file” and attach your exported docum ent. The “Com m ent” field will now say “See
attached file(s)”.
You are not required to put your em ail address in the “Em ail” field, but do so if you want to track your subm ission.
Select an option under “Tell us about yourself! I am ”: if you are subm itting as just yourself select “An Individual”. You m ay also choose
“Anonym ous”.
If you selected “An Individual”, put in your first and last nam e in the respective fields, you are not required to fill out any m ore inform ation.
Check the box “I read and understand the statem ent above” which acknowledges that any personal info you included will be viewable on
the web.
You m ay preview your com m ent to double check everything by clicking “Preview Com m ent”.
Click the green “Subm it Com m ent” button.
You’re done! Please subm it by 3/15/2025 by 11:59 pm  EST.
March 14, 2025
From :
Kyle Miera
Data Transform ation Specialist
Albany NY
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am  an Am erican who has worked over 15 years in the field of data transform ation. Of late I have grown increasingly concerned with the
tech industry’s push towards Generative AI, a technology with lim ited applications that is being sold as a universal solution to all m anner of
problem s, both real and invented. As yet these technologies have produced rem arkably little in the way of returns, and I would caution
against any Action Plan that is overly com m itted to what m ay well turn out to be a speculative bubble akin to the dot-com  crash of the late
90’s.


Working as I have in the field of data transform ation, there is nothing m ore im portant than m aintaining the integrity of data. Generative AI
applications arbitrarily reassem ble data with little regard for consistency, based on obscure heuristics. Under no circum stances would I
trust any data output by GenAI software without verifying it first. Without doing so, the risks of data corruption or leakage cannot be
overstated. It is a gam ble that whatever dam ages are incurred (e.g. wasted resources due to inaccurate data, Am ericans’ personal data or
classified inform ation being leaked) will be less than the salary of qualified program m ers and technicians. History shows this is not the
case.
GenAI does have narrow applications in certain fields outside m y own; I will leave discussion of that to others. My concern is that GenAI
has not proven to be the golden goose big tech expects, and that they are now looking to subsidize their costs by cannibalizing as m uch
intellectual property, data, and jobs this adm inistration is willing to allow them . As the custodian of m y tax dollars I ask that you seriously
consider the long-term  effects of this investm ent for the Am erican people.


