PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2got-uum e
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8307
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Dawn Wages  
General Comment
Disclaim er: I do not speak on behalf of any em ployer. 
I have spent m y decade long career, in open source and the Python language, leading and serving on open source foundation boards and
m eeting the com m unity of experts building AI products. 
AI is a force-m ultiplier for anything it is charged with and within the lim its of the system  with which it interfaces. Sourcing data is absolutely
a lim it of any system  especially AI m odels. GOOD data, is not only "accurate" but also ethically sourced. This sets a precedence that has
already been litigated! The reason we have IRB and research review because data collection for science requires consent and ethical
review -- not forking over in hom es of som e nebulous unnam ed "progress".
I have not consented to being part of any of OpenAIs m odeling, which is a research m ethod TURNED CONSUMER PRODUCT. All
term s of services that have not explicitly m entioned AI should not assum e perm ission!! 
I deserve to be able to consent!! This threatens assum ed privacy. I m ake calculations on risk and when in public I have less assum ed
privacy than in m y hom e and online, but it is a scale. You cannot share it wide without m y consent. 
We have a m ovem ent com ing. While other countries are discussing m odern scenarios global state of technology, the US not only refuses
to invest the tim e but sell us off to the *FIRST* BID. Then citzen's data is picked dry by idiot technocrats. Your children's data is on the
line just like m ine. There is no protecting your fam ily from  this.


