PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-ojr5-dqv5
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2613
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Amber Hooke  
General Comment
Unrestricted generative ai is a threat to the jobs and livelihoods of m any Am erica artists and creatives. By rem oving restrictions from  ai
com panies and program s we are ultim ately only going to be harm ing real working people in our country. Right now com panies are using
generative ai to m ine writing, photos, and artworks from  all over the internet often without perm ission from  the people who own them .
Even now ai is being used to profit off of stolen intellectual property, and if ai can be copyrighted this becom es even m ore ethically and
legally dicey. 
But even if you ignore the im pact unregulated ai will have on creatives, you cannot ignore the im pacts it can have on the lives of all citizens.
Ai can be used to generate im ages or videos of people without their consent, and those videos or photos can contain anything, including
harm ful or illegal m aterial. Ai program s that were im plem ented in prisons have shown to be incredible biased, and caused certain individual
to not be allowed parole, based not on their behaviors but based on biases with the ai system . These system s are often proprietary so
there is no way for the user to know if they include biases in them  either. I also think it is worth m entioning that m any ai system s use
trem endous am ounts of power and electricity that is both harm ful to waste, and causes unnecessary environm ental dam age.
Because of these reasons I do not think it is a good idea to decrease regulations on ai technology. I think ai m oving forward should be
considered with m ore concern for its ethics and the effects it has on others.


