PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1e9w-enad
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7380
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Ryan Goff
General Comment
The sim ple fact that this is even being considered is insane. 
non-consenting data aggregation in general should be considered a violation of your privacy, as shown by every single website now
needing to prom pt you before they send their hordes of cookies. now, instead of your data being stolen, its the info for your livelihood
being taken without your consent. profiteering off of som eone else's art, even when m odified is already illegal, this should be considered
no different, and broad spectrum  AI Im age generation, non-consensual voice m im icry, and any artistic copying by data aggregation and
learning algorithm s should be illegal as well.
Please stop thinking with your wallets and consider the fact that if you let this go, the consequences could be m assive. Not only for the
individuals, but for you. Advances in this field could lead to ease of disinform ation due to the increased accuracy in data m im icry,
specifically with regards to vocal recognition, and given that you lawm akers speak in a public forum  m ore frequently, you are m ore at risk
for this. consider if you will, if m im icry becom es so advanced, that its im possible to tell the difference between your voice and the
software's, and som ebody, anybody, m akes that software say incrim inating things in your voice. This will be the reality if this software is
left unchecked. Not to m ention, all the independent businesses that will fail as a result of the rem oval of restraints to the software. Do not
be fooled by sm ooth talking business m en of m illion dollar m ega corporations that only care about profit. this order will do nothing but
harm  the Am erican people, whether through sowing distrust in your words am ong the population, or by killing thousands, if not tens of
thousands of independent sm all businesses.
Consider the ram ifications of your actions on yourself, and the people of this country. don't be fooled.


