PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-y6ne-tcc5
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4862
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonymous  
General Comment
To say t hat all art rea lly exists to feed a machine of unskilled labor r un by a b unch of bra inless tech jock ies who have never so much as 
picked up a pa intbrush in their lives is heresy. Do cop yright laws mean nothing to you? Or do t hey only mean so mething to you when it's a 
billion do llar corporat ion like Wa lt Disney who has the power and the money to fight back breat hing down your sorry necks? Do peop le 
having their likenesses used without their consent to manufacture cheap porn mean nothing to you when so me of the peop le in question are  
CHILDREN? Do peop le under N DAs in regards to t heir projects while the companies that make their programs are free to inject AI that 
nobody asked for into with zero reperc ussions are ab le to make their work p ublic mean nothing do you? Does the right to the pursuit of 
happiness even for peop le who do unapprec iated labor like the arts mean nothing to you? Obviously the answer to a ll these q uestions is 
that it DOES mean nothing to you, but to destroy r ights and liberties outlined in the constitution of t he Unites States, which you all have 
casually forgotten e xists except for the amendments that allow presc hools to be s hot up, is not a c hoice that is going to go unpunished by  
your constituents. 
This govern ment is a f&^% farce to be bou ght out by corporate greed so easi ly, we had lessons in school growing up that 
speci fically warned agai nst this, and one day you all will realize this needs to chan ge or else you will not be long for your positions. 
Chan ge or fail.


