PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3loo-z2hz
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9280
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Alfred Lan
Em ail:  
General Comment
As som eone who had been studying Com puter Science in the m idst of the boom  of AI interest, I am  strongly opposed to this proposition. 
The em ergence of LLM has drastically terraform ed the Internet for the worse. The flooding of generative AI im ages and articles have
greatly decreased the reliability of finding factual inform ation online and have lead to m ass public distrust. Academ ics have reported
difficulty in teaching aspiring students due to the prevailance of generated fraudulant inform ation. This inform ation is com m only pushed to
the forefront of the results of search engines as searches or presented with AI sum m ary functions. There have been a m ultitude of
screenshots of blatantly false inform ation conjured by this function, yet these results are always presented with a cadance of absolute
confidence. Misleading users and encouraging the spread of faulty info.
In term s of creative usage, though it is prom ised that generative AI and LLM could be applicable to creatives' process instead of replacing
their roles in design and m edia fields, studies have shown that when generative AI is utilized as an aid for creative design, it leads to
fixation of the generated concepts, and actually lim its their capacity to com e up with novel ideas.
(https://dl.acm .org/doi/full/10.1145/3613904.3642919) This will certainly lead to creative stagnation, as AI m odels have to be trained on
existing m aterial and could only generate results based on what it was trained on.
Even with the prom ise of regulations for AI that address the concerns of m any, such as fair usage, energy consum ption, and privacy.
These past m onths of governance has shown m e nothing that inspire confidence that the policy actions will be followed through with
professional integrity.
Generative AI and LLM do not prom ote hum an creativity, nor will it foster those who wish to im prove their creative thinking. The m otive
for it's application is fundim entally flawed, and the dam age these technologies have already dealt to the existence of factual inform ation and
public trust since its push has been trem endous.


