PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-a0kp-ski6
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1466
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Antonio Aponte  
General Comment
To whom  it m ay concern,
As a concerned Am erican citizen who works in m arketing and childcare, this is m y response to the adm inistration’s call for public
com m ent on how to m ove forward with its national AI policy plan.
The first of two recom m endations for the adm inistration are to apply its “hands-off” approach to state AI regulations as m uch as it does to
federal policy. The adm inistration has long advocated for states rights and should continue that path in allowing state governm ent to
determ ine what is best for their constituents.
The second and m ore im portant recom m endation is to reject the calls for weakening copyright laws. If the adm inistration is serious about
supporting innovation, it will leave copyright laws alone. Many of the larger AI labs and tech-oriented think tanks are advocating for
weakened copyright laws on the basis of national security. However, for the purposes in which the U.S. governm ent has expressed
interest in the use of AI, training on copyrighted works is not necessary for protecting national security or prom oting scientific innovation.
Copyright laws, in and of them selves, actively prom ote innovation by allowing anyone to be able to earn a living off of what they create
and contribute. If rightsholders are not able to protect those copyrights or control how and where they are used, it decreases the num ber
of copyrighted m aterials produced due to the lack of protections, which inevitably harm s innovation rather than encourage it. The
adm inistration’s pro-innovation push benefits m ore from  enforcing its currently existing copyright laws rather than attem pting to weaken
them  to the benefit of Big Tech, which the adm inistration has actively prom ised to hold accountable.
Num erous research papers am ong AI researchers, the true backbone of the AI industry, have shown that the bottleneck for AI
dom inance is the lack of data-efficient learning algorithm s, not lack of data itself. Am erica’s AI edge is not negatively im pacted by
upholding the copyright laws that have been in our Constitution since its inception and goes m uch further towards encouraging innovation
than if rightsholders are told they do not have a say in how their copyrights are used.
If Am erica really wants to beat China in the AI race, it should recognize that what has truly kept us ahead is our adherence to the
inalienable rights bestowed on us by our Constitution, the sam e inalienable rights China lacks. Am erica should not rush to becom e China in
order to beat China. A nation is its citizens, not its com panies.
We the People appreciate the Office of Science and Technology’s attention to this m atter.


