PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-fsfl-19dp
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1577
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
Any AI action plan should first consider the harm  AI has already inflicted on m illions of publishers and businesses across our nation.
Google's use of AI Overviews in search has reduced website traffic for sm all businesses by 75%+, and this is causing the cataclysm ic
collapse of the digital econom y. Google, a com pany recently convicted of antitrust violations, should NOT be perm itted to continue to
scrape and steal our content for their sole benefit. If Google can pay reddit $60 m illion a year to train their AI with, then it only m akes
sense Google can license content from  everyone else.
Attached is a graph highlighting the substantial loss in traffic independent sm all businesses have endured already as the result of AI
Overviews. This study was conducted by Seer Interactive https://www.seerinteractive.com /insights/ctr-aio
Please keep in m ind sm all Am erican m anufacturers have been severely harm ed by Google's AI Overviews. Also note the UN study which
noted that China currently controls 25% of the global m anufacturing m arketshare and is expected to rise to 45% by 2030. In 2030 the
USA's global m anufacturing m arketshare is expected to decline to 11%. Winning the AI race, by perm itting Google and other AI
com panies to steal their content and use for their sole gain is not only wrong, but is also a national security concern since it will drive m ore
specialized sm all m anufacturers out of business.
Any AI action plan should call for AI Overviews, and/or other AI elem ents that divert traffic from  external websites, to be im m ediately
rem oved from  Google search due to the widespread harm  it is causing to Am erica's sm all businesses. Does Google want to win the AI
race or just strengthen their existing search m onopoly to control m ore inform ation and consum er spending by eradicating sm all businesses?
It's bad enough Am azon, a m ega-im porter/distributor of Chinese goods, has received $11.6 billion in local tax subsidies to help them  build
m ore warehouses to store/ship m ostly Chinese goods from . But to allow big tech to steal our content and traffic adds insult to injury for
m illions of Am erican business owners trying to participate in the digital econom y.
Attachments
google-ai-overview-im pact-search-ctr-1738711114


