PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3p92-425z
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9571
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Aisling Buddell  
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
On EO 14179


ON EO 1 4179
March 15, 2025 
From: 
Aisling Buddell 
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an 
Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
  Hello, my name is Aisling Buddell. I am an artist, and have been in the industry for 
decades at this point. While my health ensures I'm unable to run a full time business, I 
occasionally supplement the income of myself and my husband with my art.  
  I won't mince words, "AI" systems made by large tech companies like Microsoft and 
Google are built on theft. Theft of the work of thousands of artists, both visual and written. 
Not only is it deeply unethical, this theft is a violation. The owners of these systems would 
have you believe that you should turn a blind eye - that what they do isn't a crime. But the 
fact that it isn't speciﬁcally called out as a crime in law yet doesn't make it not a crime. 
  Further, these companies will crush small American businesses with the promise of 
unbelievably low prices, all while delivering vastly inferior goods with their hallucinatory 
algorithms. 
  These systems can only be produced by training the models on works made by 
*people*. If they wanted our work, they should have commissioned us for it - and taken no 
for an answer if we said as much. Instead they steal it, siphoning off parts of our artistic 
souls to feed their machine; without compensation or recognition, and then sell it back to 
those who would have been our clients - which cuts us out of the market by directly 
competing with us. 
Page 1/2


  This was already an existentially horrifying thing - but now these thieves would ask the 
administration to make this legal? The entitlement is baf ﬂing - they seem to believe that 
everything around them should be theirs for the taking. If the same people walked in to an artist's shop and started taking paintings away without paying for them, would you allow them to call it legal?  
  This is as baf ﬂing as it is revolting. American copyright law is intended to protect 
incentives to create and innovate - yet this law will make myself and others be wary of ever sharing our art again. This will stiﬂe innovation, economic opportunity, and even community. 
  If you want to protect American innovation, protect American creators - not thieves. 
  I am not anti-AI necessarily, there are great opportunities (especially in the medical imaging ﬁeld!) for AI algorithms to be used. However, people must come ﬁrst - and right now that isn't happening. It will only get worse with a blank permission slip from the government.  
  Thank you for your generous time,      Aisling Buddell
Page 2/2


