PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-11t3-7vhk
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7075
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Daniel Martin   
Email: 
General Comment
I am  a com puter industry professional with 25 years professional experience. I will be addressing specifically the subset of AI technologies
known as "generative AI", and specifically large language m odels. (hereafter abbreviated "LLM").
The proliferation of generative AI technologies over the past few years has easily been the largest com puter revolution I have witnessed in
m y career. However, with LLMs and im age generators has com e serious concerns about copyright and author's rights. I have witnessed
LLMs and AI-driven im age creators produce what would instantly be labeled copyright infringem ent if done by a hum an in response to a
variety of prom pts.
The system  of copyright established in the US by acts of Congress, international treaties, and court precedent would norm ally dem and that
a database created by exam ining a copyrighted work and excerpting large portions of it is a derived work or the original, and m ust
therefore be m ade with the perm ission of the copyright holder or fit into one of the clearly established "fair use" exceptions for copyright;
not only is it not clear a priori that LLMs trained on copyrighted data qualify under any established fair use exception, the com panies
behind different LLMs aren't even attem pting to m ake that argum ent.
Instead, AI prom oters would argue that hum an content creators borrow and are inspired by each other all the tim e, and that LLMs should
be perm itted to do likewise; however, there is a noted difference between what happens in a hum an brain upon experiencing som e m edia
and what happens when it is fed into an LLM training algorithm .
Copyright law already provides for the concept that a robust culture requires that a large background of ideas, them es, and stories be
available freely for anyone to use, repeat, and m odify: this is the public dom ain. LLM m anufacturers are free to train their m odels on as
m uch public dom ain data as they can gather. They are also free to hire authors and artists to produce works-for-hire that can be used to
train their LLMs. I have heard claim s from  AI proponents that this is insufficient, but have also not heard good explanations of why this
well-established, proven-legal m echanism  can't be used.
Currently, Am erican m edia (books, m ovies, television) dom inates the globe; the production of copyrighted m aterial is an industry in which
Am erica is the undisputed m aster. Opening the door to allowing US-based LLM training to ignore copyright restrictions on source
m aterial encourages other countries to do the sam e, and would trade away an industry which we know that Am erica currently dom inates
for a future industry that is still highly uncertain.
Rulem aking around LLM and other generative AI training should em phasize a robust respect for the restrictions of copyright, and respect
for US copyright even when training AI m odels should be incorporated wherever possible into future international trade negotiations.
Clauses em phasizing that copyright applies to m odel training should be offered by the US at future Berne Convention bureau m eetings,
and our representatives to the UN should lobby WIPO to adopt standards which protect US copyright from  foreign LLM-based ripoffs.
The US can achieve leadership in AI, but attem pting to do so by sacrificing an existing industry the US dom inates (rather than pushing to
m ake other countries' efforts respect established copyright rules) is short-sighted.


