PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-xnq3-m t40
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4759
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
AI Com m ent


From: Intellectual Property Professional
Re: National Science Foundation ’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan
I am an avid visual artist who creates artwor k for all kinds of American clients – from personal family portraits, 
to cover artwor k for books . In addition to being an artist, I wor k in Intellectual Property Law and am familiar 
with the important protections that copyright affords h uman creators.
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy  
American business and innovation wit h their recent demand to create special carve outs in copyright law.
AI systems can only be pr oduced by first training on work made by people . The rights of millions of American 
people were infrin ged when their data, their work, and their property were taken and fed into these AI 
systems without consent or compensation . They ingest our da ta, our art, our f amily photos, reassemble it and 
then sell it back to clients – directly competing with human artists and cutting them out of the m arketplace.
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and loopholes to make this 
practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precede nt. They are suggesting that if a machine 
ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow “fair us e”. Their entire profit structure is built upon 
infringing copyright – they add no transformative value beyond interpolation of what is fed into the machine, 
and designed exclusively to prof it. There is no fair us e. 
They are asking this administration to compromise rights afforded to humans, to benefit corporations . They seem 
to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should be theirs for the 
taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle 
American innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect . The purpose of American copyright and intellectual property law 
is to protect the incentive to create and innovate.
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by B ig Tech 
giants, what will be the inc entive to create? If everyda y Americans create a new innovative piece of computer 
code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, 
why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly make a living doing these things ?


Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright exemptions 
that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday Americans without 
permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech companies, 
but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective consent , so that 
we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the incentive to 
create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic value, so the value generated 
by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, requiring them to 
disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI systems, and 
believe they have incredibly beneficial applications. But we should not sacrifice the hard work and ingenuity of 
millions of Americans and give it away for free to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law. 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


