PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2c4h-zhvc
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8499
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Sebastian Padrino
Address: 
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Public Com m ent Letter


March 15, 2025
Sebas tian P adrino
Member Engagement Specialist
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request fo r Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI ) Action Plan
I am an Americ an citizen and creator of content both in t he traditio nal ar t and video production 
space. I have spent many year s honing my skills to create a distinctive style al l my ow n and v alue 
that deeply. I am having ever incre asing concer ns about the reac h of AI system s to mine the 
existing w ork of hard-wor king Americ ans w ith no c ompensatio n or acknowledgement.
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to 
destroy thousands of American small businesses with their recent demand to create special 
carve outs in copyright la w.
AI system s can only be produced by first tr aining on w ork made by people. My unique wor k, and 
the wor k of hundreds of tho usands of other everyday Americ an creator s was taken and fed into 
these AI systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest our wor k, reassemble 
it, and then sell it bac k to our client s – directly competing wit h us a nd c utting us out of the 
marketplace.
Now these B ig Tec h companie s are asking this administratio n to create exceptions and 
loophole s to make this practice of stealing Am erican creator s’ copyrighte d work legal 
precedent. They are suggesting that if a m achine ingest s and r eproduce s copyrighted w ork, it is 
somehow suddenly “fair use ”. 


They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to 
rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to protect 
the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be 
stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If every day Americans create a 
new innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to 
have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? 
How will we possibly make a living doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday 
Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the
incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic
value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not
just Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, requiring them 
to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.


I am not anti-technology. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI systems, 
and find them incredibly useful in the right context and within the right application. However, 
we cannot sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to 
Big Tech by rewriting copyright law. Increasing the shareholder value of Big Tech by just a few 
more pennies is not worth the livelihood of so many talented and hard working creators.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


