PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-xbws-hfxp
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4322
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Logan McLau ghlin 
General Comment
Am erican m edia dom inance and soft power have been the key to cultural dom inance for decades, form  our film  industry to our televion
program s, stream ing and books. The creativity of Am erican thinkers, writers, artists, and creative experts has historically been a
foundation upon which global m edia culture is built. The use of copyrighted works for training com m ercial AI products will kneecap a
large sector of that econom y, put m illions out of jobs and further dilute and destroy Am erica's soft power through m edia. It also continues
to be proven even by open source and GDPR com pliant m odels that the am ount of data needed to continue to train large language m odels
far surpasses the current available data of the entire internet. Outside of excessively narrow use cases such as analyzing large research
datasets (for which m odels need to be specifically trained on sim ilar research data) there has yet to be a consum er product of any
relevance to em erge from  OpenAI or Google with OpenAI losing $5bn in 2024. The idea of it being a "race for dom inance" is a farce, it is
a m arket of charlatans trying to feed investors the next iphone when they lack even a basic proof of concept or data to dem onstrate not
only consum er dem and but valuable usecase. There is no Killer App for these m odels and in m ost cases they have introduced m ore false
data and errors into every business they have been applied to, costing com panies billions cum ulatively. Microsoft, Oracle and several
others are cancelling data center contracts because they have seen the writing on the wall and allowing these com panies to pillage the
treasure trove of Am erican Creativity will only drive creators and culture m akers away from  this country. This cannot be allowed to
happen


