PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-exip-xjoq
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1963
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Melissa Gibson
General Comment
I am  against AI. While I think that it has potential in the m edical fields to do good it has the opportunity to do a great deal of harm  without
serious regulation. No one seem s to be interested in doing regulation. One of the biggest issues is copyright law. AI com panies want to
undo copyright law for the benefit of them  but do not want to see the continued protection of the sm aller artist. AI has devastated the
creative fields, leading AI to being used in the gam ing industry leading to m ass firings. AI's quality is inconsistent. There is also the fact that
using google search the results have the AI result has often been a m ixed bag of bad answers. If AI is resulting in bad answers that people
are getting google search results, what else is it doing wrong that we don't know about? There are tim e and tim e again m ultiple articles
pointing out these issues with AI. There is also the heavy reliance which is 'dum bing' down people. You want a sm art Am erica? Don't
allow the reliance on this technology to write essays. Don't allow AI in the classroom s. People treat the AI results like its facts when it can
be wrong. There have also been articles about using AI like it's their therapists and AI is not a trained therapist. I'm  afraid of what kind of
behavior this is resulting in. There from  NBC news how a teen killed them self because of AI: https://www.nbcnews.com /tech/characterai-
lawsuit-florida-teen-death-rcna176791 and it isn't the only one I have seen like it. AI is a technology that we are m oving to hard and to
fast on. I'm  sure other people can say it m ore eloquently than m e. I realize the USA has concerns about China developing a better AI. But
we can't be reckless.


