PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0xfx-dgwe
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6966
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Meagan 
Woodcock   Email: 
General Comment
I do not support the current avenue by which artificial intelligence from  large tech com panies have acquired m aterials to "train" these
program s. 
They bypassed copyright laws that protect all creators to obtain data and inform ation to train their program s without inform ed consent,
com pensation, or the option to opt out of these program s. 
Artificial intelligence is being forced upon the Am erican people in all avenues of life under the guise of convenience when it's long term
byproduct will squander the creative industries (arts, journalism , academ ia), m ake citizens m ore careless when researching inform ation on
anything, and consum e m assive am ounts of energy to continue "training up" their artificial intelligent program s. While also being just as
likely to m ake m istakes when tasks are ran solely on artificial intelligent program s. 
These com panies and businesses should NOT be allowed to "ask for forgiveness later" when they knowingly acted covertly to by pass
any pushback they'd have received in order to legally procure the data they needed. These program s would NOT have been viable or
produced adequate results had they been trained solely on com m on license and public dom ain properties (and these com panies knew
that).
I am  AGAINST open artificial intelligence. Until there is legal retribution for the NEGATIVE im pact AI has already put upon society,
workers, and livelihoods, and legal protocols in place to CONTINUE to protect copyrights of intellectual property, I will and do not
support AI.


