PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 10, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 83-k5fx-81py
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1125
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Christopher 
Keene  A
General Comment
This Post represents only the introduction to m y com m ents and is m eaningless without the attached file that contains the proposed partial
rule set. 
Introduction:
AI is, and will be one of the m ost im portant tools and one of the m ost deadly weapons in hum an history.
The atom  bom b is a powerful and lethal weapon. Our decisions on when to use the atom  bom b are based on our perception of reality and
the facts we think we know. AI is uniquely positioned to alter our perception of reality and what facts we think we know. As such, the
potential consequences of the m isuse of AI exceed the destructive power of nuclear war. 
The benefits of AI are equally potent. Hum ans are lim ited in how m uch we can learn and retain over a lifetim e. We are born knowing
nothing and only becom e experts over m ost of a lifetim e. As Abraham  Lincoln said, “The graveyards are full of indispensable m en.” AI
has nearly instant access to m ost accum ulated hum an knowledge and can be used to retain knowledge between generations. As such, we
are poised to have indispensable AI experts that surpass m erely one hum an lifetim e of accum ulated knowledge.
AI’s have the prom ise to exponentially accelerate all form s of research, extend lives, and unarguably reshape the world.
Please see proposed rule sets in sections 1, 2, 3 of the attached docum ent. 
Attachments
AI Notes


Introduction: 
AI is, and will be one of the most important tools and one of the most deadly weapons in human 
history. 
The atom bomb is a powerful and lethal weapon. Our decisions on when to use the atom bomb is 
based on our perception of reality and the facts we think we know. AI is uniquely positioned to alter 
our perception of reality and what facts we think we know. As such, the potential consequences of 
the misuse of AI exceed the destructive power of nuclear war.  
The beneﬁts of AI are equally potent. Humans are limited in how much we can learn and retain over 
a lifetime. We are born knowing nothing and only become experts over most of a lifetime. As 
Abraham Lincoln said, “The graveyards are full of indispensable men.” AI has nearly instant access 
to most accumulated human knowledge and can be used to retain knowledge between 
generations. As such, we are poised to have indispensable AI experts that surpass merely one 
human lifetime of accumulated knowledge. 
AI’s have the promise to exponentially accelerate all forms of research, extend lives, and 
unarguably reshape the world. 
With great power comes great responsibility: 
AI is an existential misinformation threat. No individual or organization should be able to wield 
mass misinformation of the type that AI can create, and is creating today.  
Today, AI is being used in overt scams and fraud over phone, text, e-mail, fake web pages, and web 
advertising.  
Democracy is dependent on an educated populous that has access to facts and should not be 
inﬂuenced by misinformation or AI based propaganda. 
A simple requirement to label AI generated material will signiﬁcantly curb the ability of AI to be used 
for misinformation or propaganda. 
Rules: 
(1) Known AI Labeling:
All material partially or wholly created by AI or containing signiﬁcant AI created content shall be 
marked and labeled as “Created by AI”. This requirement shall be applicable to all media including 
but not limited to text, audio, pictures, video, Virtual Reality, or any other communication type.  


Enforcement of this labeling requirement should be rabidly enforced both domestically and 
internationally. 
Knowing the reliability of information and where information comes from is absolutely essential to 
the functioning of a Democracy and safety of citizens. 
(2) Control and Responsibility for AI actions:
AI units can and will act autonomously. Therefore, a chain of responsibility must be enforced. Every 
AI that has access to the general public or population shall be registered and have a designated 
“Owner and Operator”. A responsible cognizant HUMAN must be the Owner and Operator of every 
AI. An AI may never be the Owner and Operator of an AI. A nebulous faceless agency, organization, 
or corporation may never be the Owner and Operator of an AI.  
The Owner and Operator is deﬁned as an individual Human or Corporation that is personally 
responsible for the actions of the AI. In the case of a Corporate Owner and Operator, the company 
President or CEO shall be the responsible Human.  
In the case of AI technology that is imbedded into a product and the AI cannot be readily altered by 
the end user: The Owner & Operator is deﬁned as the Human that operates the product. However, 
the Creator of the AI is responsible for AI actions that are inherent to the AI design and occur 
without the consent or intent of the Owner and Operator.  
Every AI shall have a designated AI Creator or Manufacturer. This Creator shall be a cognizant 
HUMAN responsible for the creation of the AI. In the case where an AI is not substantially altered by 
the Owner and Operator, the Creator is responsible for defects, and for AI actions inherent to the AI 
design which occur without the consent or intent of the Owner and Operator. Humans that 
substantially alter an AI unit become the Creator or Manufacturer of the new altered AI version. The 
Owner and Operator of an AI that creates another AI becomes the Creator of the new AI with all of 
the responsibilities of that designation.  
AI units that are for research or hobby use and are not accessible by the general population should 
not require registration. However, the Owner and Operator of the AI is still responsible for the 
actions of the AI.  
AI Owner and Operators, as well as AI Creators shall be registered in a readily and publicly 
accessible manner.  
(2.a) Considerations for AI controlled Vehicles: 
As an example, consider the AI used in autonomous ground vehicles. The AI is not modiﬁed by the 
end user. The AI Owner and Operator is the vehicle Owner and Operator. The vehicle Owner and 
Operator is responsible for commanding the AI to drive to a physical address. If the AI steers the 


vehicle oƯ of a cliƯ, the AI Creator is responsible for this action because this action is inherent to 
the AI design and occurred without the consent or intent of the Owner and Operator. 
Licensing of autonomous vehicles: Humans take a driving test to be licensed to operate a motor 
vehicle. AI should be licensed to operate motor vehicles. The State or Federal government should 
determine a standard for licensing of AI versions to operate motor vehicles. A common standard of 
licensing will result in standardized and reliable AI drivers. The simplest method of licensing would 
be to run the AI driver through a physical driving test in the vehicle to be operated, similar to a 
human driver test. A simulated driving test could also be used, as long as the simulation utilized the 
same sensor set that the physical vehicle uses, and the simulation accurately depicts the reality of 
real-life driving conditions. AI driver licensing should be re-accomplished for every AI update that 
substantially changes the driving characteristics. AI driver licensing should not be a long and 
onerous process. The AI licensing test should take no longer than a human driving test.  
The autonomous vehicle AI Creator or Manufacturer, or government agencies may collect statistical 
data on the safety of AI drivers to determine if defects in the AI are present, or to conduct 
continuous improvement activities.  
In the special case of ground-based vehicles, States may want to consider a no-fault collision 
policy for AI enabled vehicles where no injuries or fatalities are involved. AI controlled vehicles are 
statistically safer than human controlled vehicles and vehicle manufacturers should not retain 
massive collision liability while making the roads safer.  
(3) Limits on AI authority in organizations:
No human shall ever be under the management or obligated authority of an AI. A Human leader or 
manager may use an AI as a tool or communication device subject to the rules stated above in 
section 1 and 2. However, all authority is derived from a speciﬁc responsible Human in the 
organization. Additionally, the responsible Human is the Owner and Operator of an AI that projects 
the human’s authority. As such, the human Owner and Operator is personally responsible for the 
dictates of the AI.  
(3.a) AI units that are acting on the authority of a human should reference the name and contact 
information of that human in all correspondence.  
Example: A human manager uses an AI to construct a project plan and schedule. The AI then sends 
individual taskings to workers based on the plan and schedule. The AI directs a worker to perform a 
hazardous action that results in personal injury. The Human manager shall be personally 
responsible for the situation. 


