PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-iw4f-ipvn
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2206
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Richard Fay  
General Comment
I am  a freelance visual artist, sm all businessm an, and Am erican citizen. I am  also an individual who takes pride in being aware of various
environm ental issues and consider m yself som ething of an environm entalist. As an artist/sm all businessm an, I have sold m y cover artworks
and interior illustrations to various sm all-press publications, in the United States and abroad. I have sold and continue to sell print-on-
dem and m erchandise featuring m y original artworks through various platform s, and oftentim es do so internationally. As an artist,
businessm an, environm entalist, and Am erican, I am  deeply concerned about the unregulated developm ent and deploym ent of AI. I am
concerned about AI-art generators being trained on art created by hum an artists and the potential copyright infringem ents of said training
and im age generation. I am  worried that the current governm ent, in its haste to sustain and enhance Am erica's AI dom inance and to
com pete with other nations in the developm ent of AI, is neglecting the flourishing and com petitiveness of hum an artists and potentially
ignoring long-standing legal protections afforded to the creations of said hum an artists. Furtherm ore, as an environm entalist, I am  also
concerned about the environm ental harm  (including excessive use of power and water) of AI. I worry what pressures unregulated and
unrestricted developm ent and deploym ent of AI will put on an already stressed planet and how those pressures will negatively affect the
flourishing of various hum ans here in Am erica and worldwide.


