PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3q5i-oa2a
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9375
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
the idea of Artificial intelligence presented by the private sector, specifically within the realm  of generative AI, has proven tim e and tim e
again over its life in the public consciousness that it is nothing m ore than a scam  disguised as a technological breakthrough. The proposed
executive order (or the revoking of a past executive order) would have us believe that the private com panies developing this generative AI
are doing so to "innovate" and "lead" this field of technology, while anyone working in any field that has been affected by its widespread
use is able to see the dam age it causes firsthand, even with the current restrictions. Made out to be m uch m ore advanced than it is to gain
support from  people too quick to em brace and im plem ent it, genAI has created an alm ost unusable internet within only a few short years,
overflowing with a digital landfill of m isinform ation. This doesn't even touch upon the blatant theft of every artistic field and industry, in
which generative AI serves no purpose yet com panies seem  to be deeply invested in ruining.
That landfill of believable lies is entirely by design. This side of artificial intelligence which the previous order seeks to address cannot be
"enhanced" in a way that supports our country or the world at large, as at its core it exists to tear down everything around it, in an effort to
m indlessly and effortlessly churn out som ething worse for easy profit. To support these com panies by rem oving the already m inim al
responsibility and restrictions that they currently face would spit in the face of any ideas of safety, privacy, or copyright law our country
currently holds, and harm  every citizen outside of these com panies who only seek to m ake m oney from  people gullible enough to invest in
their scam . Generative AI's "entrepreneurial spirit," as described by the recent executive order itself, is siphoned from  the spirit of the
people who actually care about their field and profession, who the AI seeks to replace while being unable to exist without them  in the first
place.


