PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-d2hd-77c4
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1516
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
The definition of shoplifting; " the act of knowingly taking goods from  an establishm ent in which they are displayed for sale, without paying
for them " is equal to data scraping without consent or com pensation and com peting directly against the authors, creators, individuals and
beyond. Generative AI at it's current stage does not respect copyright and sets a dangerous precedent for the future and for m ore abusive
technologies and laws to be passed. A stranger could directly snap a photo of som eone and create an AI im age of them  without consent
and extort m oney, a m alicious virus could be easily coded, a recipe could lead to deaths, a falsely generated im age could spark m ajor
controversy, som e have even died from  chatting with bots, consum ing poisonous m ushroom s, been laid off and worse. Generative AI also
uses a lot of natural resources - According to the United Nations Environm ental Report, nearly two-thirds of our world's population
experiences severe water shortages for at least one m onth a year, and by 2030, this gap is predicted to becom e m uch worse, with alm ost
half of the world's population facing severe water stress. To avoid this fate, the report said, water use m ust be “‘decoupled’ from
econom ic growth by developing policies and technologies to reduce or m aintain consum ption without com prom ising perform ance.” -
Forbes.
Schools are a place of learning, using generative AI robs children of valuable m otor skills and critical thinking. 
Fashion brands used "diverse" AI m odels to represent diversity, but this only m akes it m ore challenging to get fair representation for
m inorities.
I am  against data scraping and generative AI.


