PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-5t94-8q4s
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1420
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Am erican College of Cardiology
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
ACC AI Action Plan RFI Com m ents_March 15_final


March 15, 2025  
Networking and  Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) 
National Coordination Office (NCO),  
National Science Foundation  
AI Action Plan  
Attn: Faisal D’Souza,  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue,  Alexandria, VA 22314, USA  
Comments Subm itted Electronically 
RE: Request fo r Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan 
Dear  Mr. D’Souz a, 
The American Colleg e of Cardiology (ACC) appreciates the opportunity to provide feedback 
in response to the Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan. The American College of Cardiology (ACC) is the global leader in 
transforming cardiovascular care and improving heart health for all. As  the preeminent 
source of professional medical education for the entire cardiovascular care team since 1949,  ACC  credentials cardiovascular professionals in over 140 countries w ho meet 
stringent qualifications and leads in the formation of health policy, standards and guidelines.  Through its world -renowned family of JACC  Journals, NCDR registries, ACC 
Accreditation Services, global network of Member Sections, CardioSmart patient resources and more, the College is committed to ensuring a world where science, knowledge and 
innovation optimize patient care and outcomes. Learn more at www.ACC.org or follow 
@ACCinTouch.  
This document is ap proved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  


Introduction 
The Networking a nd Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National 
Coordination Office (NCO) is requesting input from interested parties on the Development 
of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan to help define the priority policy regarding AI 
and to ensure that AI innovation is not hampered. The College appreciates the opportunity 
to engage with the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) and is pleased to provide comments to help shape actions that should be included in the plan.  
AI has the potential  to transform U.S. health care by analyzing large data sets to drive 
innovation, reduce clinicians’ administrative burdens, and accelerate the development of new therapeutics and personalized medicine. However, despite the promise of AI, it is 
essential that government agencies and stakeholders appropriately monitor and balance the potential risks AI presents. These include but are not limited to  usurping  clinicians’  
autonomy when treating  patients, deploying unproven technologies that can harm patients  
with incorrect outputs guiding decision- making, and burdening health systems and 
clinicians with increasingly expensive systems without adequate reimbursement.  
Building on inp ut submitted in response to documents  and regulations across multiple 
administrations, the College is pleased to submit comments for the AI Action Plan.  The 
ACC's comments in response to this request for information focus es on three primary 
areas: Ensuring Clinician A utonomy, Establishing  Public T rust in AI, and Unified Agency 
Approach to Governance.  
Ensuring Clinician A utonomy  
AI-enabled sys tems provide well -established benefits by leveraging computing power to 
enhance patient care. However, the deployment of new tools also comes with great risks 
that could just as easily put patients in harm’s way and threaten the clinician- patient 
relationship that has been the central tene t of medicine.  
Currently th e US healthcare system does not have the infrastructure to support 
autonomous AI. Therefore, the systems established for implementation in the near future 
are best based in assistive AI or collaborative intelligence, with the clinician as the responsible entity, using AI as a tool . Diagnostic tests or genetic underpinnings where an  AI 
application contributes and enhances patient care are best utilized in coordination with and under  the clinical acumen and reasoning of trained clinicians.  While the College is 
acutely aware AI capabilities will continue to evolve , it is essential that the AI Action 
Plan must reaffirm that clinicians—not algorithms—remain at the center of patient care.   


The ACC strongl y believes that clinical decision making should still lay  in the hands of the 
clinician and the patient, deciding  together  the best course of action based on what is best 
for the patient and the evidence available at the time. While AI is a powerful tool, it serves 
to support clinical decision -making —not replace it. AI 's role is to enhance care while 
preventing unnecessary treatment. The starting point for such decisions must always be 
the individual patient.  The College believes AI  can play an active role in helping clinicians 
explore options available to a patient by presenting information and serving as a tool adjunctive to clinician decision making, but it is important to ensure that clinician 
autonomy is not overridden, and software does not supplant the clinician- patient 
relationship.  
Equally as i mportant, any AI Action Plans should work to ensure that AI/ML- driven 
solutions are not considered or presumed the new “standard of care” in any way.  
There is great uncertainty on the potential risks and liability a clinician faces should they deviate from recommended AI -enabled software outputs, whether autonomous or 
augmentative. While many government agencies may not establish liability criteria,  
reiterating that these are simply tools that are used to inform the decision- making process, 
rath er than dictate it, will help ensure that clinicians remain in charge of a patient’s care.  
Establishing  Public Trust in A I 
When developing  an AI Action Plan, it is important that all interested parties, including 
developers, agencies, private sector organizations, and other interested parties work together to ensure that the public can trust that AI will be used in a safe, transparent, and 
accurate way. One of the prevailing ways to address this is through the reduction of AI bias 
in outputs. IBM  refers to  AI-bias, also called machine learning bias or algorithm bias, as the 
occurrence of  biased results due to human biases that skew the original training data or AI 
algorithm —leading to distorted outputs and potentially harmful outcomes.  In medicine, 
these biases can lead to inaccurate diagnosis and result in patient harm or death.  
Due to the  natu re of health care, it is essential that any AI Action Plan work to ensure 
that any potential biases in data inputs, AI- enabled outputs, and passive and 
automated systems  are minimized as much as possible or adjusted for accordingly to 
ensure that outputs do not lead to biased or incorrect outputs.  Many of the top AI 
developers  are actively working on methods to address and reduce bias, ensuring that 
systems produce accurate results, and the College believes that any AI Action Plan should consider this important work and reflect the importance of this issue.  
To that end, i t is important that an AI Action Plan also works to instill trust by the 
public through the development of policies that promote  transparent , clinically 
validated AI systems in health care.  This includes providing patients, clinicians, and 


other stakeho lders with a firm understanding of and information about data sets used to 
train AI models . Successful AI -enabled technologies require early engagement from 
clinicians and organizations like the ACC that stand at the nexus of this innovation. The 
ACC strongly recommends a ny AI Action Plan should promote policies that 
encourage AI system developers to integrate clinicians’ perspectives into the design, development, validation, implementation, and monitoring of AI in health care.  
This engagement i ncludes utilization of validated sources of data, such as those captured by 
clinical data registries like the National Cardiovascular Data Registry (NCDR), to train AI applications. The College is engaging with both regulatory agencies and  industry to ensure 
the clinician’s voice is incorporated into the development of these AI systems and stands ready to work with OSTP, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the Food 
and Drug Administration (FDA) , the Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy (ASTP)/ 
Office of the National Coordinator for Health IT (ONC) and other government agencies to create an AI framework and policies  that protect patients while still delivering innovative 
approaches to solving our health care system’s biggest problems.  
Unified Agenc y Approach to Governance 
Finally, as OS TP considers the development of an AI Action Plan, it is important that the 
White House coordinates  with government agencies to promote a unified AI governance 
strategy . A unified AI governance framework should establish clear standards on 
transparency, model card development, risk stratification to prevent overregulation, funding for comparative effectiveness research, harmonized definitions across 
federal agencies, and real -world case studies to guide clinicians and patients.  
Many of these co ncepts already exist and are defined either through regulations or sub -
regulatory guidance in other components of the US health care system  and are accepted by 
developers , researchers, and  experts from across the ideological spectrum. Borrowing 
from and building on existing concepts and developing a unified, whole of government approach can remove subjectivity from the decision -making process, 
boost adoption, and promote the development of innovative AI systems  that are 
cutting edge, transparent, and accurate.  
Conclusion  
The ACC appreciates  the opportunity to provide input on the Request for Information on 
the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan. The development of a unified, 
coherent AI Action Plan is essential to maintain the current pace of innovation while 
appropriately balancing the potential risks AI places on patient health.  If you have any 
questions or follow up, please contact Joseph Cody, Associate Director of Health IT and Digital Heath Policy at  or 


Sincerely,  
Cathleen Bi ga, MSN, FACC  
President, American College of Cardiology  


