PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-do5b-s8ue
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1528
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  The Heathered Nest, LLC
General Comment
I am  one of thousands of sm all U.S. publishers whose livelihood depends upon people finding our websites and com ing to our niche
corners of the web for inform ation, advice, solutions and answers. Over the past decade, I have supported m y fam ily financially thanks to
the website which I created, and continue to build. As m y site grew, I was able to em ploy other US citizens as well. The increasing
utilization of AI has spelled catastrophe to sm all publishers around the country such as m yself. Google swipes our hum an-generated work
without perm ission and uses it to train its AI m odels which can then serve up our work without any credit to the creator. Copyright law
m ust be considered, appreciated and upheld as the utilization of AI continues to grow. If it is not, there will be no new content, articles,
photography, art, etc created as there will be no incentive for creators to create. If people cannot get paid for their work, they cannot
continue to fuel our econom y and be productive citizens. Sm all publishers have been a valuable part of our US econom y for over a
decade, and while it is a relatively new industry, it is growing, im portant, and valuable. All of these sm all businesses who em ploy m any
others in this country will fail if AI continues to steal our work without com pensation and attribution. Please protect sm all businesses as
you consider creation of the Artificial Intelligence Action Plan. Many Am ericans, and the econom y we contribute to will suffer if big tech is
allowed to profit on our hard work without any consideration.


