PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-26yx-cm sv
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8056
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Brianna Carter   
Email: 
General Comment
As a professional artist and as a science educator, I am  com m enting first and forem ost, that the colloquially called A.I. technologies, such
as Dall-E and ChatGPT are both harm ful to m yself and other artists and any developm ent in these areas m ust be done within tight
regulations with plenty of oversight.
As a person who works closely with the sciences, one of the things I am  m ost concerned about is the spreading of harm ful m isinform ation.
Som e of it tangential, but m uch of it very real. A.I. regularly gives wrong inform ation; everything from  the num ber of snake bites per year
in the US to labeling deadly plants as safe and edible.
This inform ation not only harm s our ability to educate the public about our natural world, history, and current events, it puts their lives in
danger.
Innocuous but deadly fungi like Destroying Angels could very easily be eaten by som eone relying on A.I. to identify it. And in fact, it
appears to already be happening:
https://gizm odo.com /ai-chatbot-joins-m ushroom -hunters-group-im m ediately-encourages-them -to-cook-dangerous-m ushroom -
2000523863
There are books on Am azon.com , com pletely ai-generated from  an author that doesn't exist. Platform ing ai will eventually kill som eone.
As an artist, m y work has been directly affected by the use of ai. Much of m y work com es from  sm all com m issions. Works that cost at or
around $500. Since the rise in popularity of Dall-E and Midjourney, I have seen those com m issions all but evaporate.
As an artist and a student of art history, I am  deeply worried about what this will do to the Am erican people, culturally.
If we truly strive to be the shining city on the hill, then how can we settle for what is effectively, just barely good enough? Are we truly
going to throw away hum an artistry, endeavor, and effort for som ething as ephem eral as 'content' that only sort of m eets the idea a person
is trying to translate into reality?
Are we going to flush all those jobs down the toilet, collapsing industries.
What is the point of developing these tools when they're being used to replace som e of the few labors hum an beings strive for?
Things we m easure intelligence and cultural im pact by. Is this not of dire im port to the United States?
As they take so m any tries, create wrong or incorrect inform ation, and are at the m ercy of stolen m aterials; these technologies are also
inefficient. Tim e and tim e again, I have seen copy editors replaced with ai, only to be hired in lesser paying, tem porary positions, to
correct the m istakes the bot m ade.
Would it not have been faster sim ply to hire a hum an to do copy?
These m odels use incredible am ounts of power and until we have an effective way to power our hom es, tech, and vehicles, this is just
another strain.
The com bination will inevitably cost both businesses and consum ers m ore m oney.
I m ust also reiterate, that the m odels, im pressive as they are, only got that way through theft. Hundreds of thousands of hours or labor,
m illions of im ages and books and docum ents. All stolen to be sold back to us as an inferior product.
Thus far, this is a product of fraud and theft. Our work and livelihoods taken without com pensation and repackaged.
If truly we live in a free m arket under capitalism , this cannot be allowed to continue.
How can we, the producers in the ecology of the free-m arket protect ourselves from  the theft of our intellectual property if our own
governm ent will not stand on our side? This is a blatant violation of copyright.


AI has proven not to be profitable. The push for it is a feeble attem pt for a return on investm ent that sim ply does not exist. Like the
Ivanpah Solar Power Facility in Nevada,it should be shuttered, like that facility, there are sim ply better options available, those panels
proved to be ineffective, AI in it's current form  has proven to be a useless power-guzzling waste of tim e. The effort was valiant perhaps,
im pressive even, but ultim ately not worth continuing with consideration to the harm  it does both to us as working Am ericans and to our
culture.


