PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1noj-pjg6
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7927
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Thom as Beck  
Email: 
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Letter on Gen-AI Legal Perm issions


March 14, 2025 
From: 
Thomas Edward Beck 
Freelance Feature Author, Novelist 
 
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
I am an everyday American who works freelance by writing features for online outlets in the 
publishing and entertainment industries. I have worked hard for years to develop the skills and 
knowledge to build my portfolio, regularly drafting private features throughout high school and 
moving on to commercial and academic writing in university. I was hopeful about my future as a 
writer and as someone who could contribute to the publishing industry under various other 
positions—until I graduated university. Not only is the dire state of the job market preventing me, 
a qualified writer, from getting any interviews out of the over one hundred job applications I have 
sent, the job market for writers and editors in my field are overrun with generative-AI based 
positions replacing listings which previously did not call for generative-AI and which offered 
more reasonable compensation. Moreover, the very data used in the models that are being 
weaponized to strip publishing industry workers of their paychecks and limit their work are 
trained on legally-protected data—much of which is the work of our very own industry veterans. 
Because of this crisis, I am severely limited in my ability to contribute to our country through 
both work and economy, and I am but one of tens of thousands. These days, I have taken up a 
part-time job out of necessity. I contribute not what I am talented and trained in, but something 
less valuable. Anyone could see how this situation is frustrating and undeserved, but if my 
pathos fails to reach you, there still exist a plethora of reasons why generative-AI should not be 
permitted to train on protected material under the law. 
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google 
threaten to destroy thousands upon thousands of American small businesses with their 
recent demand to create special carve outs in copyright law. 
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work made by people. My unique work, and 
the work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators was taken and fed into 
these AI systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest our work, reassemble 
it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly competing with us and cutting us out of the 
marketplace. 
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. 
They are suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow 
suddenly “fair use”. 
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to 
rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation. 
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to 
protect the incentive to create and innovate. 


If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen 
by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new 
innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it 
immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will 
we possibly make a living doing these things? 
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and 
everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency. 
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition: First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give 
effective consent, so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI 
systems. Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so 
that the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has 
immense economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to 
the original creators, not just Big Tech. Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech 
companies, requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, 
and label what content is AI generated. I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard 
work of millions of Americans and give it away to the tech sector by rewriting copyright law. 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues. 


