PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zvrh-sjgn
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6170
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Steven Reed 
General Comment
AI ACTION PLAN
Sir:
the recent work of the organization Open AI, as com m unicated to the world through the release of ChatGPT, leads m e to believe that
both current and potential developm ents in artificial intelligence call for watchfulness and, indeed, quick action on the part of your
adm inistration. 
We find ourselves in a situation not wholly dissim ilar to that prior to the Manhattan Project, where the potential to develop a powerful new
type of bom b existed for the Allies and for Germ any. Today a global race for expanded AI capabilities has begun without adequate
governm ental oversight. Beyond this, any future advantages in AI by China or other adversaries that would alter the balance of power
m ilitarily or in other spheres m ust not be allowed to happen. 
As FDR did with the Manhattan Project, you m ay find it desirable to put in place an organization under direct governm ent control which is
em powered to bring together the resources and talent needed to accelerate developm ents in AI and coordinate with other organizations.
No one knows what future progress in AI m ay occur, how quickly, and how it m ay im pact Am erican national interests. What is clear is
that potential for the developm ent of future powerful AI technology exists and m ust not be left solely in the hands of non-governm ental
organizations and corporations.
“This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be 
reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.” 


