PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-7ly2-xn10
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1432
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Am erican Council on Education
General Comment
Attached are com m ents from  21 higher education organizations regarding the developm ent of an artificial intelligence action plan.
Attachments
FINAL 031425 AI RFI com m ents


March 14, 202 5 
Faisal D’Souza, Technical Coordinator 
National Coordination Office 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
Attn: AI Action Plan  
Dear Coordinator D’Souza, 
On behalf of the undersigned higher education associations, I write to submit input on the 
development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan. We appreciate the actions of the 
Trump administration to quickly issue the Jan. 23 executive order to “define the priority 
policy actions needed to sustain and enhance America’s AI dominance, and to ensure that 
unnecessarily burdensome requirements do not hamper…AI innovation.” As part of this Request for Information, the administration seeks input on priority policy actions that should 
be in the new AI Action Plan, including those impacting education and workforce policy and the application and use of generative AI. Much of these comments are drawn from comments submitted to the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions in response to a September 2023 white paper.
1 
Higher education is critical to advancing AI, and U.S. leadership around the globe. It should come as no surprise that much of higher education has been ahead of the curve when it comes to developing and adopting AI into our courses and operations. Colleges and universities often develop and adopt innovative technologies well before the broader society. Given the relevance of AI to efforts to accelerate the production, advancement, and dissemination of 
knowledge, this embrace of AI is a natural fit for postsecondary institutions. It is being used to 
develop curricula and rethink how courses are delivered; support students and expand access; reduce burden and streamline processes; and create opportunities for students, faculty, researchers, and staff. The federal government has a critical role to play in nurturing the growth of this technology while ensuring that it is utilized in the service of expanding and enhancing education. Keeping that balance in mind, our comments focus on the possible 
impacts, both beneficial and concerning, to our students, our institutions, and our workforce.  
Postsecondary Students  
For students, properly designed and implemented AI tools offer the promise of greater support and enhanced academic opportunity throughout their academic careers. This begins 
with the initial step of choosing programs and institutions at which to study in the college 
1 See comments to Senators Sanders and Cassidy here: https://www.acenet.edu/Documents/Letter -Senate -AI-
092023.pdf   


2 search process. AI-powered chatbots can help students identify programs and institutions that 
not only meet their specific needs but might provide greater opportunities for success, 
including incorporating recent changes to simplify the Free Application for Federal Student 
Aid to provide advance knowledge of Pell eligibility or other forms of available student aid, as well as existing federal data on cost of attendance and aid awarded at institutions.  
Through AI, students could get a personalized understanding of what aid may be available to 
them and how that is likely to compare across institutions they may be interested in. While AI 
cannot substitute for the support of a college admissions counselor, it can serve to help target information and facilitate the process, freeing up professionals to work more directly on aspects of their work that benefit from direct interaction, such as assisting students in preparing applications. After a student is enrolled, AI offers significant benefits for enhancing how institutions support them, including student tracking and push systems, which can 
identify early warning signs of disengagement, such as missing a class, and direct personalized 
interventions to ensure that the student is contacted and supported before issues accumulate.  
Generative AI also demonstrates tremendous opportunities for academic support. 
Personalized, on-demand tutoring provides assistance that meets students where and how 
they learn in ways that faculty, teaching assistants, and academic advisors are not able t o, 
allowing these professionals to devote more time to developing curricula, designing projects, 
and addressing more significant challenges students are facing. The data gained through student interactions can also be of tremendous benefit to educators, identifying concepts that students most struggle with, helping to shape how much time or attention in a classroom is 
directed to those areas. One other area where AI could be harnessed to improve the student 
experience has direct relevance for policymakers. Currently, students (along with other members of the public) who are entitled to receive local, state, and federal benefits such as financial aid and food assistance must apply for these benefits across a bewildering maze of forms. It is not hard to envision a process in which a student, guided by an AI chatbot, provides information one time and the system incorporates existing databases to supplement 
these answers and complete the applications across a range of programs, as well as identify 
next steps and assist in meetings.    
All these benefits come with real risks as well. The collection and monitoring of personal data 
that these uses of AI require can raise significant privacy concerns if appropriate protective 
steps are not taken. In its annual survey of the postsecondary landscape in relation to AI, 
EDUCAUSE found that: 
•Ninety percent of survey respondents are greatly or somewhat concerned about the “useof data without consent” for AI purposes.
•Eighty-seven percent are greatly or somewhat concerned about AI uses that might entail
“violation of privacy and security laws and policies.”
•Eighty-nine percent have great or moderate concern about AI applications lacking
sufficient data protection measures.2
2 “2025 EDUCAUSE AI Landscape Study: Into the Digital AI Divide ” 


3 It is therefore critical to ensure that existing privacy protections in law are strengthened and 
adapted to address the expansion of AI to protect student privacy. For higher education 
specifically, it is important that the Action Plan recognize the long-standing role that the 
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) plays in the protection of student educational records, particularly as concerns the potential misuse of students’ educational data through improper disclosure or dissemination of personally identifiable information. Any actions the federal government might take around AI should incorporate existing FERPA 
regulations rather than weakening FERPA or creating any carveouts for AI technology.  
Postsecondary Institutions  
On campuses across the country, AI is already impacting how students learn, how faculty teach, and how institutions operate. While healthy debates over the appropriate role of AI in the classroom continue, AI is here to stay and will make generational changes to all three of 
these core areas. Among the many uses institutions are exploring is using AI to streamline, 
and in some cases remove, bias from some institutional processes, including the admissions process. In the admissions process, AI can perform initial screens of application materials to ensure that minimum requirements for admission are met before admissions personnel review them, saving countless hours of staff time. In addition, AI can review large datasets, 
such as transcripts, that could reduce time and burden for institutions as part of complicated 
admissions decisions in areas such as transfer. 
AI has also been helpful in curriculum development for many institutions, especially in 
developing summaries, generating lesson introductions, and creating questions about 
material. These efforts provide students with more personalized content and instruction as 
well as reduce costs. Institutions have incorporated AI across the curriculum, leading to innovative work by students and faculty on how to incorporate AI into food production, for example. Institutions such as the University of Florida have entered into partnerships with other institutions to not only find innovative ways to incorporate AI into postsecondary courses but also to develop curricula targeted to the needs of elementary and secondary 
schools in the state. 
The AI Action Plan should also prioritize the accuracy of information about higher education 
providers that students receive when using AI to inform their college plans. The fit between student, academic program, and institution can significantly affect the probability of student 
success. Likewise, the ability of a student to understand the financial aid options an institution can make available and how that relates to its cost of attendance can be a key factor in how effectively the student manages the stresses of pursuing a college degree. Therefore, it is important that the Action Plan push for AI providers to incorporate consumer protection 
mechanisms that mitigate to the extent possible the potential for students to receive inaccurate 
or misleading information concerning possible higher education providers. 
There have already been a number of promising developments in the use of AI to help individuals with disabilities succeed in higher education. The use of AI to provide enhanced 
 https://www.educause.edu/content/2025/2025 -educause- ai-landscape -study/strategy -and- leadership  


4 accessibility tools (such as enhanced synthesized speech in test-taking environments, clearer 
and more accurate text -to-speech, and error-free closed captioning) will directly improve the 
experience of students with a range of disabilities. Beyond improving on existing tools, AI offers the promise of learning environments that can not only adapt to the way an individual learns but provide a tailored experience that will allow students with disabilities to move beyond more traditional accommodations. The ability to develop and share these applications widely can help to address the existing resource challenges many institutions face in adapting 
learning environments to the needs of those with disabilities. 
Existing concerns about AI should not be minimized. Institutions of higher education and 
others are working to address issues of academic integrity as students and faculty work to incorporate AI, sometimes with good intentions, into academic work. Institutions and faculty are working to figure out how to determine if a paper or assignment has been completed by 
AI, rather than by a student. This also raises the issue of how to share best practices and new 
AI technology across higher education and with under  resourced  institutions, given that AI 
will be incorporated into many aspects of postsecondary education.  
Workforce 
The recent EDUCAUSE AI Landscape Study found that 68 percent of respondents considered preparing students for the future workforce to be the primary goal of AI-related institutional strategic planning.
3 As the impact of AI on the economy and society continues to broaden and 
deepen, ensuring that students develop the knowledge and skills to use AI effectively in 
whatever ways are relevant to the sector or profession at hand will become increasingly vital to 
their personal success and the nation’s competitiveness. Likewise, higher education institutions and the nation as a whole must prepare to support adults already in the workforce as they seek to acquire the expertise with AI that they need to continue progressing in their careers and advancing the state of their organizations and industries.  
AI also offers possible advantages in workforce development, including expanding open access for greater participation in postsecondary education, creating opportunities for upskilling the existing workforce, and supporting credential tracking across institutions and different 
certificates. Indeed, some institutions are already creating standalone programs to provide 
skills and learning for workers looking to enter AI fields, including creating an “artificial intelligence boot camp” designed for learners with no AI skills to access entry-level technical positions in AI. There are numerous challenges in this area as well. As a recent study found, the future will demand workforce development “on a far larger scale” and will require 
employers to recruit based on “skills and competencies” rather than just on credentials.
4 For 
postsecondary education to respond to these workforce needs, our institutions will need to 
become more agile. We will need to make investments across the education pipeline, from encouraging transfer of credit between institutions to encouraging students to major in AI fields to developing certificates and short-term programs to encourage new skills among those 
already in the workforce. The federal government can help incentivize these activities by 
funding pilot programs and convening groups to discuss best practices.  
3  Ibid., “Figure 5. Primary Goals of AI -Related Strategic Planning.”  
4 McKinsey and Company, “Generative AI and the Future of Work in America” 
https://www.mckinsey.com/mgi/ourresearch/generative -ai-and- the-future -of-work -in-america 


5 What Can the Admini stration Do to Support AI in Postsecondary Education?  
We believe there are several actions the administration can take to encourage the strategic use 
of AI and address some of the issues with AI in postsecondary education. For example, the annual EDUCAUSE survey shows that faculty and staff training in AI technology and skills as well as increasing access to AI tools are major strategic concerns for  institutions of higher 
education.
5 Moreover, the survey also found that the gap between large and small institutions 
in terms of available resources to realize the promise of AI for their students and faculty is troublingly large.
6 
Given these considerations, recommended actions include the following: 
1.Establish experimental sites for institutions across the postsecondary spectrum,
piloting the use of AI in admissions and other areas that support students, so best
practices can be measured and shared broadly with the community;
2.Keep FERPA in mind when considering student privacy issues;
3.Encourage the U.S. Department of Education to convene groups and share bestpractices, especially with under resourced  institutions unable to be early adopters of AI
technology;
4.Incentivize the private sector to partner with consortiums of institutions, includingunder resourced institutions, and work to close the gaps in access to technology andrequisite infrastructure to fully utilize AI across the postsecondary landscape;
5.Provide additional funding for the Small Business Innovation Research program at the
Institute of Education Sciences and expand the Fund for the Improvement of
Postsecondary Education Digital Learning Infrastructure and IT Modernization Pilotprogram to encourage the use of AI technology in postsecondary education and thedevelopment of tools that can be used across institutions;
6.Support efforts to protect academic integrity and incorporate AI into curricula; and
7.Support workforce development in AI throughout the academic pipeline, from
associate degree programs through graduate and postdoctoral programs.
We look forward to continuing to engage with the administration on these important issues.  
Sincerely, 
Ted Mitchell 
President 
On behalf of:  
5 Ibid., “Figure 3. Elements of AI- Related Strategy.” 
6 “2025 EDUCAUSE AI Landscape Study: Into the Digital AI Divide —Special Focus: The Digital AI Divide 
Between Institutions” (https://www.educause.edu/content/2025/2025 -educause- ai-landscape -study/special -
focus -the-digital -ai-divide -between -institutions).  


6 Achieving the Dream, Inc.  
ACPA-College Student Educators International 
American Association of Colleges and Universities American Association of Colleges of Nursing American Association of Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy 
American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers 
American Association of State Colleges and Universities American Council on Education American Dental Education Association Association of Governing Boards of Universities and Colleges Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities 
Association of Public and Land-grant Universities 
Association of Research Libraries 
Career Education Colleges and Universities College and University Professional Association for Human Resources Council for Advancement and Support of Education 
Council for Christian Colleges & Universities 
Council of Graduate Schools Council of Independent Colleges Council on Social Work Education EDUCAUSE 
National Association for College Admission Counseling 
National Association of Colleges and Employers National Association of College and University Business Officers National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities National Association of Higher Education Systems UPCEA  


