PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-t3z2-nrgi
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3196
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Hugh Chen
General Comment
Am erica will never have dom inance in AI if there are no protections first set in place against assets (including source code and training sets
including audio, im ages, and video) being used or shared (e.g., leaked) without authorization. All this will do is ensure nothing legal can be
done when other organizations inevitably get their hands on such m aterial and publish their own com petitive AI m odel. In such a scenario,
what's stopping, let alone punishing, a disgruntled em ployee from  leaking work outside of the parent com pany? Safe harbor laws don't
address the issue of sensitive or propriety m aterial being shared by non-creators.
We already have national and international laws in place for protecting intellectual property, likeness, and identity, and other countries
have had no issue following them  (see the Berne Convention). Even China, purported AI com petitor, recognizes the issues with m ass
produced AI slop com peting with the original m aterial. AI com panies should respect these laws, just as all com panies have in all of
history, to ensure fair and just term s for the very innovators these AI com panies heavily rely on for their products.
What m akes AI developm ent for m edia production and software developm ent in general? Even in the m ost profitable m ega-corporations,
copyright and licensing has always been an im portant legal foothold that incentivizes and em powers creators of assets (code, audio,
im ages, video, etc.) to produce high quality m aterials and distribute to trusted organizations at the creator's judgm ent and discretion for
agreed-upon term s com pensation. Com panies have always been heavily scrutinized to ensure that they have the proper rights or licensing
for whatever they com pile into end products (m edia and software). Why should the rules be any different for AI developm ent?
This AI Action Plan? Am erica would just be doing free labor for others, with no leg to stand on in term s of rights or exclusivity. The ones
who would m ost benefit from  unfettered access to Am erican creations would be greedy private com panies and other countries, just sitting
back twiddling their thum bs, waiting to swoop in and reap what Am erica has sowed once these so-called "unnecessarily burdensom e
requirem ents" go down. Am erica would be the prim e target for espionage and leaks.
Intellectual properties laws em power creators, not com panies. They protect innovations, not derivatives. AI proponents m ay argue fair
use, but there is nothing transform ative about loading billions upon billions of assets into source code and com piling software with no
creative oversight. How else would once enforce rights of innovators or punish unlawful distribution? By em ploying the sam e intellectual
property laws that have held even the largest m edia producers and tech com panies to standard on a tight leash, such as Disney, Microsoft,
Google, etc.
No com pany should be above the law, let alone so-called "AI" tech com panies, who have boasted about AGI for years with plateauing
im provem ents and barely, if at all functional practical uses for their products. We have seen AI winters com e tim e and tim e again, in a
cycle of unreasonable expectations hyped by false prom ises, and no return on investm ent in sight after billions granted by venture
capitalists. The Am erican governm ent m ust not m ake the m istake of granting corporations free reign over innovators' rights just for the
prom ise of dom inance over a field rife with false advertising (grouping all m anner of autom ation in the "AI" um brella), obscured by
science-fiction fantasy, and run by power-hungry corporations.


