PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-r0e3-dsjx
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2903
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Hunter Andersen  
Genera l Comment
Hello.
I find the very idea that large learning models, or "AI" as they have been misnam ed, will provide an y benef it to society asi nine. 
Mach ines like this have been rotti ng any service they have been ratf&^%d into since chatgpt was first introduced. They worsen th e 
usability of anything that uses them greatly, because you might as well have hired a chimpanzee to do th e work. Hell, you might even 
get a better  result. AI does not understan d human language whatsoever, has no concept of truth or facts, an d everyth ing it puts ou t 
isn't even a best guess. 
Even from a corporat e profit AI doesn't make sense. It is expensive to develop, never turns a profit, and makes everyone's life harder  
because it pisses around and leads you on wild goose chases, where a human would actually be able to understa nd a problem in the real 
world and as such might be able to fix it. The only people it benefits are upper and middle management who spend their time putzing 
around with worthless busywork anyway. 
To artists, AI represe nts an existential threat. While I do believe that artists will have a place in society even if AI gets widely adopted,  
their prices will skyrocke t just so they can survive, thereby starving out a part of society that once flourished. Who knows if most would 
even decide to hang on after that. Answer me this, would you hang up a portra it painted by an AI? With the deformed hands and limbs, 
the unsettling and uncanny express ion, the art style so devoid of care or the human experience that comes through real art that it becomes 
hideous simply from the appare nt emptiness of it? I thought not.
AI is a produ ct that is less than worthless, being sold by tech devel opers who seek only profit to the detriment of all else. The people 
that make this s&^% have no care for their fellow man, or they would have committed suicide out of sham e of being involved in this. 
AI makes everyon e's lives harder that it touch es. Hell, beyon d the principle of it, the slop these machines pump out is ugly as sin. The 
text is jumbled, garbled, or otherw ise nonsensical and stupid, the art is so soulless you feel your soul being sapped away just by 
looking at it, and AI assistan ts make work harder by their mere presen ce by slowing down workflow and even the devices forced to 
run them. I haven't even mentioned the effect AI is having on America's youths, who cannot yet tell how horrible this thing is. They are 
having their minds turned to mush by a machine that tells them they don't have to think anymore. There does not yet exist a way to 
express how much I, and I'm sure most everyon e else, hates AI with every synapse in our brains. Anything you can call this piece of 
s&^% "industry" is someh ow too kind. To finish up, the executi ve order the conman in chief, Trump, signed is baldfacedl y stupid, 
harmful, and probabl y even violent. I won't preten d to understa nd Trump's reason ing for most of the things he does. He probably 
went senile years ago and everyth ing he does now is fueled by delirium and a sense of familiarity from his younger days of bluster and 
bullying. Besides, I try not to care about the motives of nazis, but instead to oppose th em on everyth ing they attempt. 
I should hope that I have made very clear by now that AI poses no benefit to anything whatsoe ver, be it corporat e or artistic. This horrid 
leech on the underbe lly of society must be ripped off and stomped into the dirt if we want any of the people who call this land home to 
have a future with even an iota of hope in it. I can only hope the people who read this will listen and heed my warning. And if not, may the 
devil have mercy on you, because a kind god would look down upon you with only chagrin and hatred. Keep the disease of AI out of our 
society. Good day.


