PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2isb-kb19
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8349
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
With all due respect, the deliverables of m achine learning algorithm s (Artificial intelligence, or AI) have yet to live up to their prom ises. The
private sector entities prom oting AI and requesting that they be given an exception to regulation are asking for special privileges that they
do not deserve.
First and forem ost, AI products have yet to produce any tangible or financial benefit. In 2024, Goldm an Sachs released a report titled
"Gen AI: Too Much Spend, Too Little Benefit?" in which Jim  Corvello, head of Goldm an Sachs's global equity research, was quoted as
saying "AI technology is exceptionally expensive, and to justify those costs, the technology m ust be able to solve com plex problem s,
which it isn’t designed to do." Corvello goes on to say that "eighteen m onths after the introduction of generative AI to the world, not one
truly transform ative—let alone cost-effective—application has been found." 
The energy consum ption required to run these algorithm s requires a substantial am ount of energy that would be better suited serving
Am erican consum ers in their hom es and businesses that create products of actual value. Businesses and consum ers cannot afford to
shoulder the burden of the increased energy prices required to support AI developm ent.
Furtherm ore, the private sector developing AI has claim ed that their products have reached a plateau that cannot be surpassed without
violating U.S. copyright laws by allowing copyrighted works to be used to train their algorithm s. This use of copyrighted works to create a
com m ercial product does not pass the four factors judges use to determ ine fair use. The purpose and character of the use in training AI
m odels with copyrighted works is to replicate the output of the original authors. Training AI m odels requires the entirety of the copyrighted
work to be ingested and m ay result in a substantial portion of the author's work being duplicated by the algorithm  for com m ercial
purposes. This would have a sever detrim ental effect upon the potential m arket for the original author. The fair use doctrine is not
applicable in this instance and does not justify undercutting the profits of authors—both individual and corporate—through the theft of their
intellectual property. 
Finally, it m ust be noted that m achine learning algorithm s are by their very definition incapable of following professional, ethical, and legal
protocols surrounding sensitive inform ation--including the intellectual property rights of tribal governm ents to control culturally sensitive
inform ation and the obligation of healthcare providers, law enforcem ent, schools, and other entities to protect the personal identifying
inform ation (PII) of private citizens. Any dataset that is used to train a m achine learning algorithm  becom es subject to regurgitation by the
algorithm . Without restrictions and regulations to prevent sensitive inform ation from  being used to train these algorithm s, anything and
everything could be used to respond to an AI prom pt. These "burdensom e requirem ents" exist to protect sensitive data and m ust not be
bypassed for any reason.
Regulations exist to protect the people of the United States of Am erica from  the greed and laziness of a select few. No executive order
can erase the Am erican people's right to sovereignty, self-determ ination, and the enum erated rights of the U.S. Constitution and the U.S.
Code, including but not lim ited to: the intellectual property rights guaranteed under 17 U.S. Code Chapter 1; the privacy rights guaranteed
under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fam ily Educational
Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), the Gram m -Leach-Bliley Act, etc.; and tribal rights to cultural sovereignty under their respective
treaties. Any one of these rights m ay be in jeopardy if the regulatory process were bypassed to allow for unchecked developm ent of
m achine learning algorithm s. 
As a U.S. citizen, an author of copyrighted intellectual works, and a professional who works in the inform ation sector, I vehem ently


oppose this Plan to place the pipe dream  of private sector AI innovation above the existing rights of all other private sector industries and
private citizens. The AI sector does not deserve special treatm ent. Quite the opposite: they have an expensive, unreliable product that has
yet to produce any transform ative innovation. 
Rather than rem ove any existing regulations, the National Science Foundation should turn this situation around: the burden of proof should
be on the com panies that are producing these m achine learning algorithm s. Make them  prove that their product—-as it stands--has
tangible and lasting value. This is a high burden of proof that, in m y estim ation, Silicon Valley has yet to m eet. If, for any reason, the AI
industry is able to prove its usefulness and value, then it should be regulated like everything else--without violating copyright and privacy
law.


