PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zuw2-wvyp
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6425
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
See attached file(s).
Attachments
Statem ent


March 15, 2025
From:
T. Garcia
Marketing and UX Writer  
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am an everyday American who has worked in marketing for the tech industry for 15 years. I 
have worked hard for years to develop the skills and knowledge to build my career, and have 
been lucky enough to maintain financial stability until recently.
AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to 
destroy thousands of American jobs like mine with their recent demand to create special carve-
outs in copyright law.
These AI systems can only be produced by first training on work made by people. My unique 
work, and the work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators, was 
taken and fed into these AI systems without consent or compensation.  They ingest our 
work, reassemble it, and then sell it back to our clients — directly competing with us and cutting 
us out of the marketplace.
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. 
They are suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow 
suddenly “fair use”. 
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet — regardless of who owns it 
— should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to 
rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. 
The purpose of American copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we, the American people, do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be 
stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a 
new innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music — only to 
have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft — why bother creating it in the first place? 
How will we possibly make a living doing these things?


If you want to protect American innovation, then you must protect American creators. Do not 
create new copyright exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal 
from everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creators' work to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring that American creators continue to innovate by safeguarding 
their right to earn from the work they've created. I am not anti-technology, as someone who has 
worked in the tech industry my entire life. I find technological progress useful and necessary. 
However, we must not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans 
and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


