PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-krcs-3rir
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2353
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
In regards to an AI Action Plan, I m ust stress the im portance of protecting intellectual copyright.
Artificial Intelligence, particularly generative AI, threatens m y ability to prom ote m y creative work as a writer and artist. In order to have
any sense of safety in posting m y work publicly, I require a guarantee that m y data will not be used to train AI. This includes m y artwork,
photography, and writing. As soon as I feared a com prom ise in m y data's security in Google Docum ents, for exam ple, I ceased using the
platform  for personal work and switched to different sites if possible.
If I have worked for a long tim e and spent effort on a creative work, I want there to be an OPTION of whether or not it is used to train
an algorithm , and the ability to opt out. My hard work should not be used without com pensation or notification to develop a system  like
generative AI. All creatives struggle to retain an idea of uniqueness and individuality in a tim e where there are no new ideas—as well as
fighting to have true intellectual property of their original ideas—and data theft in order to "innovate" im pacts that goal and discourages
people from  continuing in fields like the hum anities.
If there has ever been a tim e to protect intellectual property, that tim e is now. Idea theft should not be seen as acceptable, or any personal
boundaries dism issed as "burdensom e", if it's in regards to online data and creative work. Private com panies building algorithm s for "AI
dom inance" should not be able to use individuals' personal work without perm ission, notification, and financial com pensation.
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be
reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.


