PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-24p0-86gm
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8011
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
Subject: AI Action Plan
I am  responding on m y own personal behalf to the Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action
Plan, not as an agent or representative of any institution. 
Per the requirem ents of the RFI response I am  stating the following: 
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.
While AI m ay prove to be a useful tool in the future, Am erican success to-date has been based on m any factors, including our large
population of creative people who work across all the arts and sciences. Those people’s work is valuable and should not be taken and
used without com pensation. Current large language m odels (LLM) have been developed using scraped or pirated data from  m any
sources. The com panies developing these LLM are not just taking people’s intellectual property without com pensation, they are
attem pting to reverse engineer the thought processes that people put into creating new works with the expressed intent to replace those
people in part or entirely in som e cases.
First, AI developers m ust be required to ask perm ission to include people’s work in their m odel’s developm ent. Creators should not have
to opt-out; they should be invited to opt-in with com pensation.
Second, autom ated data collection (also known as scraping) m ust be required to respect requests to not collect data from  websites that
post such requests.
Third, any data collected by the developer m ust be anonym ized and encrypted while stored, to protect the creators’ privacy.
Fourth, AI developers should be charged a surcharge for the electricity and cooling water consum ed, along with a charge for the added
pollution from  the electricity generation. They should be required to follow all environm ental requirem ents for construction and operation
of data centers.
Finally, AI m odels should be treated as potential dual-use technologies and subject to export control (EC) laws and international traffic in
arm s regulations (ITAR) and thus, review by the Departm ent of Com m erce and Departm ent of Defense. 


