PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-m 6tz-qs1s
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2449
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Anonymous A nonymous 
General Comment
I am  a professional program m er in the video gam e industry. I have worked at Activision on the largest projects in the industry, and at
startups on the sm allest projects. I have worked with the sorts of individuals in the tech industry hyping up technologies like blockchain,
NFTs, and now "generative AI".
It is sim ply unacceptable to allow com panies to bypass copyright restrictions, period. Com panies like OpenAI, Microsoft, Google,
Adobe, and Apple are engaging in blatant theft to create technologies that do not create value for the world. An OpenAI representative
has already stated in plain English that their products cannot exist without the use of copyright m aterials without perm ission -- we have a
word for this: "stealing".
Furtherm ore, these com panies have dem onstrated tim e and tim e again that they will engage in anti-com petitive business practices that hurt
Am ericans. It is unthinkable to trust them  with unprecedented copyright privilege. In fact, they are already engaging in untrustworthy
tactics, claim ing that they are creating "ethical" AI m odels, when they are in fact using billions of copyright works without perm ission as we
speak. They are not seeking perm ission to gather m ore data, they are seeking pardons for the data they have already illegally gathered.
For exam ple, when Adobe introduced generative AI features in Photoshop, they claim ed they were trained only on the stock photo library
that they own (while quietly announcing a partnership with OpenAI). However, AI im age generators require billions of im ages to function,
far m ore im ages than Adobe's stock photo library contains. It is obvious that Adobe's claim  is a lie, and that they are gaslighting
Am ericans about the nature of their products. It is gut-wrenching to think that a com pany engaging in such untrustworthy behavior could
be granted special privileges.
It is im portant to understand that despite the newly-granted nam e "AI", m achine learning is not "artificial intelligence". Machine learning
encom passes algorithm s that produce outputs that are a function of their input. Fundam entally, m achine learning does not invent new
outputs. If an LLM can output a corporate em ail, it's because m illions of sim ilar corporate em ails were taken without perm ission as
training data. If an "AI" im age generator can produce a picture of Mickey Mouse, it's because m illions of im ages of Mickey Mouse were
taken without perm ission. Moreover, these m odels require TENS OF BILLIONS of such training data to function at the level they current
do.
An econom y cannot function when theft is ram pant. Allowing this to continue is a bad idea for Am ericans, and a bad idea for the
Am erican econom y.
Finally as a personal note, the fact that m y work and the work of m y friends is already being stolen at-scale is profoundly troubling and
insulting. I don't know if I could ever support a politician or political party that sides with the thieves.


