PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-c5nh-44bh
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1889
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Syntonym
General Comment
Syntonym  subm its these com m ents to the Office of Science and Technology Policy in support of an AI Action Plan that solidifies
Am erica’s global leadership in AI while ensuring privacy and security in visual data collection and processing.
As an AI com pany specializing in lossless anonym ization, Syntonym  develops technologies that enable enterprises to leverage cam era data
for AI advancem ents without com prom ising privacy or security. Our proprietary solutions rem ove facial biom etric identifiers while
m aintaining data utility, preventing unauthorized identification and m itigating m ass surveillance risks. Through collaborations with
autom otive m anufacturers and technology developers, we em phasize the critical need for stringent privacy and security m easures in visual
data collection, particularly in the autom otive sector.
Regulatory developm ents worldwide, including China’s strict autom otive data security m easures, underscore the strategic im portance of
facial and license plate data. China’s fram ework classifies such data as critical to national security, requiring anonym ization and strict
processing controls. These developm ents signal an inevitable global trend toward heightened protection for visual data. For the United
States to m aintain its global leadership in AI, it m ust proactively establish com parable regulatory safeguards, ensuring the efficient and
secure developm ent of AI technologies while defining the international regulatory fram ework.
This issue extends beyond the autom otive industry to all AI-driven vision-based technologies, including robotics, AI-em bedded devices,
security system s, and m ultim odal AI m odels. Without proactive regulation, the expansion of cam era-based AI system s poses growing
risks of intrusive data collection, unauthorized profiling, and national security threats.
To address these concerns, Syntonym  recom m ends a risk-based approach for vision AI system s that develops tailored regulations
em bedding privacy and security in AI system s reliant on visual data, as well as m andatory privacy and security protocols that require
anonym ization of facial and license plate data, preventing unauthorized data exploitation while balancing AI innovation with national
security and recognizing the role of lossless data anonym ization in accelerating AI innovation, reducing regulatory burdens, fostering
technological leadership and econom ic growth. 
Attachments
Syntonym  Com m ents to OSTP on AI Action Plan


To:  
Faisal D’Souza, NCO 
Office of Science and Technology Policy 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 From: 
Batuhan Ozcan 
Syntonym Limited 
 
March 15, 2025 
RE: Syntonym’s Comments on Artificial Intelligence Action Plan 
Syntonym respectfully submits the enclosed comments to the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy for consideration in the development of a new AI Action Plan which 
will define priority policy actions to solidify America’s global leadership in artificial 
intelligence (AI).  
Syntonym is an AI company dedicated to enabling enterprises to collect and process 
camera data essential for the advancement of vision-based AI technologies. Our 
mission in developing our lossless anonymization technology is to ensure that this 
progress does not come at the expense of individual privacy or the security of the 
systems reliant on camera data or camera sensors. Our multidisciplinary team of AI and 
machine learning engineers and researchers, privacy practitioners and legal and policy 
experts, focuses on developing technologies that balance innovation and data 
governance.  
As a company with expertise in developing advanced techniques that can effectively 
alter facial features within images and videos, we have designed solutions that prevent 
unauthorized identification of individuals captured by automotive cameras while 
preserving the integrity and utility of the data for AI training and inference tasks. 
Our proprietary solutions remove facial biometric identifiers from image and video data 
while maintaining their analytical value, ensuring that sensitive visual information 
remains protected. This approach mitigates risks associated with mass surveillance and 
unauthorized data exploitation by malicious actors while enabling the safe and 
privacy-enhancing use of automotive vision systems.  
Our work in the automotive industry has reinforced the urgent need for stringent privacy 
and security measures in visual data collection. We are actively engaged with 
automotive technology developers in the United States and supporting other 
stakeholders in ensuring that automotive data collection projects protect the privacy of 
United States citizens. Through these collaborations, we assist industry leaders in 1 


striking a crucial balance between the benefits of real-time visual data collection and the 
fundamental need to uphold both individual privacy and national security. 
As demonstrated by the California Privacy Protection Agency’s (CPPA) ongoing efforts 
to regulate the privacy practices of connected vehicles and related technologies1 it is 
evident that regulatory frameworks will continue to evolve to address these challenges. 
The increasing regulatory focus on automotive data collection worldwide, particularly 
concerning facial and license plate data reinforced the strategic importance of visual 
data and the necessity of implementing privacy and security measures.  
When monitoring international regulatory trends in automotive data protection and 
security, we have observed a growing emphasis on the security of automotive data 
collection and processing, particularly in China. To the extent of our knowledge and 
understanding, China has placed significant strategic importance on automotive data 
security as an extension of its national security framework. 
In November 2024, several sources reported that the China Association of Automobile 
Manufacturers (CAAM) and the National Computer Network Emergency Response 
Technical Team/Coordination Center of China (CNCERT/CC) granted Tesla a “Vehicle 
Privacy Protection” certification. Tesla was the sole foreign automaker among the first 
batch of certified companies, having demonstrated compliance with China's strict 
automotive data security standards. These standards require, among other measures: ●The anonymization of external video and image data, including facial and license
plate information,
●A default configuration that prevents the collection of in-cabin data,
●Local processing of any in-cabin data, and
●Clear notifications regarding the handling of personal information.
Additionally, under China’s automotive data regulations, external video and image data 
containing facial information and license plates, are classified as critical data due to 
their direct link to the national security infrastructure. The justification for classifying this 
type of data as critical data is that the regulatory framework explicitly recognizes that 
unauthorized alteration, damage, leakage, or misuse of such data could jeopardize 
national security, public interests, or the lawful rights of individuals and organizations.2  
The regulatory approach adopted by China underscores the strategic importance of 
visual data, particularly face and license plate information, in the evolving landscape of 
2 Driving Data Management, China Business Law Journal, August 13, 2024. 
https://law.asia/china-automotive-industry-data-compliance/  1“Modern vehicles are effectively connected computers on wheels. They’re able to collect a wealth of 
information via built-in apps, sensors, and cameras, which can monitor people both inside and near the 
vehicle.” Ashkan Soltani, CPPA’s Executive Director.  
2 


AI governance. The heightened protection of such data reflects a global recognition of 
the national security and privacy risks associated with large-scale camera-based data 
collection. It is evident that similar regulatory measures will be introduced within the 
international framework as governments increasingly prioritize safeguarding sensitive 
visual data.  
To solidify its global leadership position in AI, the United States should take a proactive 
stance in shaping the global regulatory framework in AI by integrating comparable 
safeguards into the new AI Action Plan. Establishing clear, forward-thinking measures 
on the collection and processing of visual data will not only ensure the efficient and 
secure development of AI technologies but also enable the United States to define the 
global regulatory framework and set the gold standard for data governance in AI.   
This issue is not exclusive to the automotive sector but extends to all emerging AI 
technologies that rely on camera sensors, including robotics, AI-embedded devices and 
multimodal LLMs, smart devices, appliances, security systems and other 
camera-equipped or sensor-based technologies. 
As these technologies become increasingly integrated into daily life, the risk of intrusive 
data collection, unauthorized profiling and mass surveillance by malicious actors grows 
exponentially. Without a proactive regulatory framework, the expansion of AI-driven 
vision systems could pose substantial threats not only to the privacy and civil liberties of 
American citizens but also to the national security of the United States. 
To address these concerns, we respectfully recommend the AI Action Plan incorporates 
the following measures at minimum: 1.Adopting a Risk-Based Approach for Vision-Based AI Systems:  Developing
tailored regulatory measures for the specific nuances of vision-based AI systems,
ensuring that privacy and security considerations are embedded from the early
stages of technological development in emerging technologies that heavily rely
on visual data, including autonomous vehicles, robotics, AI-embedded devices
and other camera-based systems.2.Establishing Mandatory Privacy and Security Protocols for Vision-Based AI
Systems: Implementing clear guidelines that require the anonymization and
secure handling of image and video data, particularly facial and license plate
information, to mitigate the national security risks associated with mass
surveillance and unauthorized data exploitation, and ensure that AI systems
collecting and processing visual data adhere to strict requirements to protect the
privacy of citizens and safeguard national security. Embedding privacy and
security features not only strengthen national security but also reduces regulatory
burdens, expedite AI model training, enhance data sharing capabilities and 3 


unlock large-scale data monetization potential to contribute to technological 
leadership and economic growth.  
Syntonym welcomes the opportunity to provide comments on this important matter. We 
appreciate the open and collaborative approach taken by the OSTP and the NITRD 
NCO as it develops a new AI Action Plan and submit these comments in support of a 
policy framework that not only fosters innovation and global competitiveness but also 
protects privacy and national security. We appreciate your consideration of our 
comments and remain committed to engaging further on these critical subjects.  
Sincerely,  
Batuhan Ozcan 
CEO  
Syntonym Limited 
4 


