PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-w7dy-ubif
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3797
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Dam on Bell
Em ail:  
General Comment
I am  asking you to not allow OpenAI use copyrights m aterial to train their AI, this is stealing. I do not think AI has a place in the future of
the U.S, as it is taking m any jobs and opportunities for hum ans who have learned and taken tim e to pay for college for degrees in
profession fields that com panies are planning to use so it lessens their costs in developm ent of projects. More im portantly, these AI
system s are being taught by m any works of professionals who display their work am ongst m edia, which is considered stealing.
A bunch of Am ericans and other nationalities will have their work stolen and profited off of with no com pensation, consent, or involvem ent
with any of these com panies who are choosing to do this.
This is a m ajor threat towards thousands of people. It steals jobs, it steals m aterial, it consum es a lot energy and pollutes that is very
dam aging towards the environm ent, the people in the Governm ent is im plem enting these very dangerous and destructive, if not
econom ically dam aging policies. AI should be regulated and banned from  being able to learn off of non-consenting people. Open AI
should be shut down or banned from  Governm ent affairs, as it is stealing from  thousands people and creating a lot of environm ental
dam aging problem s.
Please, do stop OpenAI from  progressing forward with these rather horrible and destructive policies, and prevent other com panies from
trying to do so. This is very abusive and harm ful to a lot of people. Not just Am ericans, but other countries as well, as all of our work as a
world together is displayed for those to enjoy and created out of what we have learned ourselves.


