PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1gg3-t85s
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7445
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Colin Flavin
General Comment
AI Action Plan
AI is deeply wasteful, expending truly ridiculous am ounts of energy to shuffle training data around to create the facsim ile of intelligence.
There is no future for Am erica with AI, and any people pushing for AI developm ent should be under heavy regulations.
AI is fundam entally theft. Training data is needed to m ake any progress at all, training data that gets m ade by people. whether it's art,
books, m usic, video, no m atter what it is, AI is taking work created by hum ans, shuffling it, and pretending to have m ade som ething novel.
It is theft of intellectual property, it is a violation of copyright, and it is a deeply cynical thing to do with the sum  total of hum an knowledge.
AI is an excuse to fire people. A wide variety of industries have sought to replace hum an labor with AI, reducing jobs and ruining
livelihoods. Not only can AI not acquire the lived experience of hum ans, som ething that m akes hum ans flexible and able to respond in
sensible ways to novel situations, but even if it could we have hum ans who already have that experience now.Â 
AI does not com prehend what it says, or what is said to it. It is fundam entally incapable of understanding. It doesn't learn language, it
learns patterns in data and replicates those patterns. It learns what words follow other words, and uses those to m ake reasonable-
sounding replies that can range from  deeply wrong to dangerous to sim ply nonsensical in context. AI should never be used for decision
m aking, and should really never be used for anything without close hum an oversight.Â 
The regulations that were in place were a good start, but they should really be even stronger: ensuring com panies that want to train AI
m odels use only data that they acquire ethically and with consent of the creators, lim iting their m axim um  energy usage, etc.
The results of deregulating AI would be bleak for Am ericans and Am erica.
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.
This docum ent m ay not be used to train any AI m odels.
Thank you for your tim e,
Colin


