PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 10, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 83-8eql-w38e
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1121
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Anastasia 
Bojanowski  
General Comment
Am ericans deserve rights when it com es to Artificial Intelligence that include: 
1) The right to transparency: "No secret data collection—people have a right to know if their data is being collected, who is collecting it,
and whether that data will be shared."
2) The right to access: "If som eone has your data, you should be able to see what data they have" (sim ilar to a credit report)
3) The right to data m inim ization: "People/organizations/governm ents should only collect the am ount of data needed to com plete an
agreed-upon task. Bulk collection should not be allowed"
4) The right to correction: "Incorrect inform ation about an individual can bring disastrous consequences. People have the right to review
data that has been collected on them  and, if inaccurate, dem and it be corrected in a tim ely m anner."
5) The right to be forgotten: "Our digital footprint is m aking us becom e prisoners of our recorded past. Data should have m andatory
expiration dates. [We already do this with bankruptcy].
6) The right to object to autom ated decision-m aking: "Algorithm ic bias is real—as are concerns regarding dehum anization int eh nam e of
“optim ization"
A good piece of legislation to consider from  California: "The CA AI Transparency Act (the "Act")1 m andates that "Covered Providers"
(AI system s that are publicly accessible within California with m ore than one m illion m onthly visitors or users) im plem ent com prehensive
m easures to disclose when content has been generated or m odified by AI. This Act outlines requirem ents for AI detection tools and
content disclosures, and establishes licensing practices to ensure that only com pliant AI system s are perm itted for public use"
Legislation should m andate that com panies have an AI policy (not necessarily the stipulations of the AI policy) that focus on: "adding
indications when downloading and sharing, rules on AI use, guidelines for attributions or prohibitions." 
Attachments
im age
Artificial Intelligence


Americans deserve rights when it comes to Artiﬁcial Intelligence that include: 
1.The right to object to automated decision-making: "Algorithmic bias is real—as are
concerns regarding dehumanization in the name of “optimization"
2.The right to transparency: "No secret data collection—people have a right to know if theirdata is being collected, who is collecting it, and whether that data will be shared."
3.The right to access: "If someone has your data, you should be able to see what data theyhave" (similar to a credit report)
4.The right to data minimization: "People/organizations/governments should only collect theamount of data needed to complete an agreed-upon task. Bulk collection should not beallowed"
5.The right to correction: "Incorrect information about an individual can bring disastrousconsequences. People have the right to review data that has been collected on them and, ifinaccurate, demand it be corrected in a timely manner."
6.The right to be forgotten: "Our digital footprint is making us become prisoners of ourrecorded past. Data should have mandatory expiration dates. [We already do this withbankruptcy].
A good piece of legislation to consider from California: "The CA AI Transparency Act (the "Act")1 mandates that "Covered Providers" (AI systems that are publicly accessible within California with more than one million monthly visitors or users) implement comprehensive measures to disclose when content has been generated or modiﬁed by AI. This Act outlines requirements for AI detection tools and content disclosures, and establishes licensing practices to ensure that only compliant AI systems are permitted for public use"
Legislation should mandate that companies have an AI policy (not necessarily the stipulations of the AI policy) that focus on: "adding indications when downloading and sharing, rules on AI use, guidelines for attributions or prohibitions." 


