PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-8lm k-m r5f
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1443
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Am erican Statistical Association
General Comment
Please see the attached response from  the Am erican Statistical Association.
Attachments
OSTP AI Action Plan Com m ent


1 ASA Response to the OSTP Request for Information on the 
Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan  
March 14, 2025  
Prepared with the input and guidance of the ASA Scientific and Public Affairs Advisory 
Committee  and the Committee on Data Science and Artificial Intelligence .   
The American Statistical Association , a non -partisan scientific organization, appreciates the 
opportunity to comment on the request for information  (RFI) from the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy (OSTP) and the Networking and Information Technology Research and 
Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO) regarding the development of an 
artificial intelligence (AI) Action Plan.  This RFI refers to implementing the guidance in the 
Executive Order on “Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence”  
published on January 23, 2025.   
The purpose of the Executive Order is to set out guidelines for developing “AI systems that 
are free from ideological bias or engineered social agendas” while not overly burdensome 
on private enterprise. The policies proposed in these comments follow these guidelines with 
the aim of enhancing the country’s global AI dominance whi le promoting human flourishing 
and economic competitiveness along with protecting national security.  In particular, these 
comments address the following topics listed in the RFI:  model development; application 
and use (either in the private sector or by government); explainability and assurance of AI 
model outputs; data privacy and security throughout the lifecycle of the AI system; technical 
and safety standards; education and wo rkforce; and research and development.  The RFI 
invites input on additional topics, which we believe should include the role of academia and 
ethics.  
AI model development is inherently dependent on issues such as data quality, predictive 
accuracy, and the ability to ensure reliable outcomes.  Statistical science provides the tools 
necessary to evaluate and optimize AI systems in ways that are both efficient and minimally 
burdensome.  The ASA describes the role of statistics and statisticians in AI further in its 
Statement on The Role of Statistics in Data Science and Artificial Intelligence, 8/4/23  and its 
2024 Statement on Ethical AI Principles for Statistical Practitioners  (EAIPSP).  
We suggest five policy actions which we discuss in the remainder of these comments:  


2 1.Establish voluntary best -practice guidelines based on statistical quality assurance
methods;
2.Standardize statistical benchmarks for AI model performance;
3.Incentivize AI system developers to document and share data integrity and model
validation procedures;
4.Establish partnerships and collaborations across government, business, and
academia; and
5.Promote statistical literacy among AI system developers and practitioners.
1. Establish voluntary best -practice guidelines based on statistical quality assurance
methods
A major concern for AI development is managing risk without slowing the pace of 
innovation. Statistics provides an effective means of achieving this balance by offering 
methodologies for testing and validating AI systems. Model overfitting, for example, wh ich 
occurs when AI models perform well on training data but poorly in real -world applications, 
can be prevented using well -established statistical techniques such as cross -validation and 
bias-variance tradeoff assessments. Statistical uncertainty quantific ation ensures that AI 
models provide not only predictions but also an estimate of confidence in those predictions, 
allowing end -users to make better -informed decisions.  Furthermore, companies which 
incorporate these principles into their development processes will gain a competitive edge, 
as consumers and businesses will naturally gravitate toward AI tools that produce fair, 
transparent, and accountable results.  Rather than relying solely on external oversight, 
statistical best practices enable AI to be self -improving while allowing room for necessary 
safeguards to ensure responsible deployment.   
2. Standardize statistical benchmarks for AI model performance
A targeted initiative to develop standardized statistical benchmarks for AI performance 
assessment would provide a reliable framework for evaluating AI models by application. By 
defining statistical metrics, for fairness (one of the principles in the EAIPS P), accuracy, and 
uncertainty quantification, policymakers can create a foundation for AI evaluation that 
balances innovation with responsible deployment. This approach ensures that AI models 
meet high -performance standards without imposing rigid constrain ts that may stifle 
progress.  
3. Incentivize AI system developers to document and share data integrity and model
validation procedures


3 Another important step is incentivizing AI developers to document and share data integrity 
and model validation procedures, including evidence of maintaining the privacy and 
confidentiality of individuals. Accountability and transparency are two principles  of ethical 
AI practice described in the EAIPSP.  By fostering transparency in AI model development, 
organizations can build trust in their systems while allowing external stakeholders to assess 
performance and fairness objectively. Encouraging companies to disclose key statistical 
validation metrics in A I reporting would create a more competitive and trustworthy AI 
marketplace.   
4. Establish partnerships and collaborations across government, business, and academia
Establishing public -private partnerships and other types of collaborations among AI 
developers, statisticians, and policymakers can accelerate advancements in AI model 
development and evaluation, including explainability, fairness, and risk assessment. The se 
collaborations would ensure that statistical expertise is applied effectively to AI systems, 
creating a foundation for more robust AI applications. Supporting research initiatives that 
bring together statisticians and AI practitioners across government,  business, and academia 
would also drive methodological innovations that improve AI performance and 
accountability.  
Supporting the continued collaboration between the National Artificial Intelligence Research 
Resource (NAIRR) Pilot  and the National Secure Data Service Demonstration  is a good 
example of a policy action that can be integrated into the new action plan.  These two efforts 
have their roots in legislation passed during the previous Trump Administration: NAIRR is a 
promising initiative to harness government and other data for AI methodological and 
substantive research, with a statutory focus on leveraging pub licly available government 
data. NSDS is a statutorily authorized program that complements the Federal statistical 
agencies in harnessing government data that is restricted by law or regulation for privacy 
and other reasons for research and other statistic al purposes. The NSDS builds on decades 
of robust statistical system data governance with strong ethical, methodological and legal 
frameworks. There are several collaborative efforts between NAIRR and NSDS already 
underway, including a technical project to  make a safe version of restricted data available 
for AI research. Additional joint methodological and data governance projects would 
advance safe and appropriate access to government data for cutting -edge AI research.  
5. Promote statistical literacy among AI system developers and practitioners
A final action item is the promotion of statistical literacy among AI developers and 
practitioners. Ensuring that those designing and implementing AI systems have a 
fundamental understanding of statistical principles will improve model reliability and 


4 
 prevent common pitfalls such as overfitting, biased decision -making, and unreliable 
predictions. Investing in statistical training programs and integrating statistical coursework 
into AI -related education would significantly enhance the quality of AI syste ms being 
deployed and will support implementation of the other policy actions proposed in these 
comments.  
 
To conclude, AI is a transformative technology with the potential to revolutionize industries, 
drive economic growth, and strengthen national security.  Ensuring successful 
implementation requires a commitment to sound statistical practice.  The role of statistics in 
AI is not to create obstacles, but to provide tools that produce AI models which are robust, 
reliable, adaptable, and can be efficiently governed. If policymakers incentivize the private 
sector to integrate statistical best practices it will ensure that AI continue s to evolve in ways 
that benefit both industry and society along with maintaining US dominance in the field.   
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information.  Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.    
Questions can be sent to ASA Director of Science Policy, Steve Pierson 
(    


