PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-d7y6-z4hx
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1917
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
AI as it exists now is built upon the theft of copyrighted m aterial and powered by m assively inefficient com puter networks that leech
energy from  the grid and require inordinate am ounts of water to cool. In its current state it is already being used to justify m ass layoffs, and
is a huge waste of resources during a tim e when resources are already scarce. It is also extrem ely flawed, often providing dangerously
incorrect and/or biased inform ation when prom pted. 
I do not support the expansion of Am erican AI technology not just because it is wasteful, but because it is dangerous to Am erican national
security. The accum ulation of data, already taken without consent, can be easily com prom ised by bad actors. A product whose success is
based upon continued theft is a product that deserves to fail.
President Trum p’s investm ents in AI are not born out of a desire for “a brighter future for all Am ericans”; like all his policies they are born
from  a desire to strip Am erica for parts and profit off of the afterm ath. There is no care or consideration being given to the danger inherent
in relying upon AI. The danger is, to his adm inistration, part of the benefit. Keeping the Am erican people reliant upon faulty and biased AI
discourages the citizenry away from  educating them selves and thinking critically about the inform ation they receive, which benefits the
Trum p adm inistration as it engages in m alicious and illegal activities such as the seizing of protected social security inform ation by Elon
Musk, a unelected private citizen. Trum p does not desire to im prove the lives of the Am erican people but to control yet another im portant
stream  of inform ation so that he can control what Am ericans see, hear, and believe. It is deeply disturbing, and it is our duty as citizens to
not com ply with this throttling of inform ation in advance.


