PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-pi05-6i2m
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1704
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
We cannot give up our right to copyright and protect our work and intellectual property so that Big Tech can get away with the biggest
theft in history. 
Copyright laws protect all of us, but especially individual creatives who are m ost at risk of being destroyed if AI com panies get to do
whatever they want. 
I am  not allowed to steal just because I need things that I cannot pay for— why should it be any different for Big tech? 
They are not special. Nobody asked for this technology, especially not the way that it’s being used today. They act like AI is the next big
thing but the reality is m ost Am ericans don’t want it, nor do they want their privacy and rights invaded in order to have this technology
im posed upon them . 
AI needs to be developed ethically and within the bounds of the law. It is not right that Am erican copyright is destroyed sim ply because
people with access to m oney and legal representation want it and can afford to hire lobbyists. 
I am  an Am erican and I have a legal right to the work I create. Just because som eone can steal som ething doesn’t m ean they should and
they certainly shouldn’t be allowed to just change the law so that their theft disappears. 
AI tech can only work if they steal from  literally everyone who has ever posted anything online. It’s 2025. We no longer live in a world
where being online is optional. We need laws to protect Am ericans from  unscrupulous tech com panies. 
I’ll say it again— I am  not allowed to steal just because I need things that I cannot pay for— why should it be any different for Big tech?


