PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-33wm -9sbz
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9143
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Jake Castro
Address:
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Untitled docum ent


March 14, 2025 
From: 
Jake Castro 
Illustrator 
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
I've spent my life honing my skills as an artist, putting thousands of man hours into better 
serving my clients and beautifying my community. After decades of work, I'm finally making 
headway in chasing the American dream… only to see it deferred by the plundering of arrogant 
tech ceos. 
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to 
destroy thousands of American small businesses like mine with their recent demand to create 
special carve outs in copyright law. It represents a new level of entitled cruelty, that I can work 
my whole life, only to see the actual fruits of my labor stolen from me. 
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. My unique work, and 
the work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday Am erican creators was taken and fed into 
these AI systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest our work, reassemble 
it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly competing with us and cutting us out of the 
marketplace. And stealing the soul of what made that work valuable in the first place 
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. 
They are suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow 
suddenly “fair use”.  
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to 
rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation. 
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of Am erican copyright law is to protect the 
incentive to create and innovate.  
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen 
by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new 
innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it 
immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will 
we possibly make a living doing these things? 


Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday 
Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency. 
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition: 
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective 
consent, so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems. 
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the 
incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic value, 
so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech. 
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, requiring them 
to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI generated. 
There may be a place for generative learning systems (what is often falsely called artificial 
intelligence), but in their current firm they represent not a source of innovation, but a 
fundamental FAILURE to innovate.  We should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of 
thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law. 
Uphold copyright law. 
If these AI fans want to have the fruits of our labor, then they can BUY IT. 
Like EVERYONE ELSE. 


