PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-r8ed-hfex
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2926
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Katie Spurlock
General Comment
If OpenAI is allowed unfettered ability to infringe on copyrighted m aterial, it will open a can of worm s into intellectual property theft on a
MASSIVE scale by both com panies AND individuals. A scale at which will bankrupt m ultiple industries this country, and the world,
thrives on. If you give one AI com pany carte blanche to override the rights of copyright holders, you give ALL AI com panies that sam e
carte blanche. And with unlim ited ability to steal m eans they will hit any and ALL com panies and agencies worldwide. Open AI would be
stealing from  other com panies at a rate that would shut down m ajor industries for entertainm ent, healthcare, pharm aceuticals, legal work,
and technology, and m any m any m ore. Tim e and tim e again the technology for Ai has proved itself to be based upon bad faith. Look no
further than Open AI's own CEO adm itting it's entire basis upon existing is to steal and that in order for it to continue to be a sustainable
business it MUST steal. And steal it will; from  creators, from  organizations, and very likely next, our own governm ent. Every industry m ust
follow the law, so why should exceptions to the law be given to the AI industry that ALREADY in m any cases infringes on those laws?
Individuals are not given exceptions to infringe on copyright against industry titans, so why should an AI firm ?
What's m ore is that experts in the AI field adm it that at present, AI and generative content m ade from  it is the WORST it'll ever be. Why
would you allow a flawed and easily corruptable product, m ade as a short term  fad from  people from  Silicon Valley, to skirt laws and
principles that long-established titans in the entertainm ent industry are not allowed to override. If OpenAi is allowed free reign of all
content, it will result in endless, bankrupting legal wars between it an all other m edia giants. Lastly, OpenAI and all other AI com panies in
the US aren't truly interested in getting technological superiority over China and other adversaries, they only want to fleece both the
Am erican public, businesses, and the US governm ent for all their worth. There will com e a tim e, with or without giving OpenAI the ability
to defy copyright law, where AI technology will not sim ply be unprofitable, but will COST anyone and everyone who im plem ents the
technology.


