PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2m k9-creh
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8724
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Marilyn 
Cruickshank   Email: 
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Cruickshank_com m ent


March 15 , 2025
From:
Marilyn Cr uickshank
Librarian
Re: National Science Foundation’s Reques t for Informatio n on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Actio n Plan
I am a librarian who prioritizes freedom of information as well as copyright law and authors who 
support themselves . Recentl y, I hav e seen a huge influx of books cobbled together with AI 
outputs that plagiariz e other authors’ work. I’v e also seen students using AI for assignments 
rather than learning to research and reason themselves.
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten 
to destroy thousands of American authors and artists with thei r recent demand t o create 
special carve outs in copyright la w.
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work made by peopl e. The unique work of 
hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators was taken and fed into thes e AI 
systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest the work, reassembl e it, and 
then sell it back to the clients of those artists – directly competing with us and cutting us out of 
the marketplace.
Now thes e Big Tech companies ar e asking this administration to creat e exceptions and 
loop holes to mak e this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal 
precedent. They are  suggesting  that i f a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is 
somehow suddenly “fair use ”. 
They seem to believ e that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be theirs for the taking. They claim that i f this administration does not allow them to 
rewrit e the law in this wa y, it will stifl e American innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright la w is to 
protect the incentive t o create and innovate. 
If we the American peopl e do not own our creations , and everything w e put online will be stolen 


●
●
●by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new 
innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly make a living doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday 
Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give 
effective consent, so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so 
that the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense 
economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech 
companies, requiring them to  disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label 
what content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.Sincerely,
Marilyn Cruickshank


