PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2vgw-7qx2
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8924
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
aiactionplanconcern


From:
A Concerned American Citizen
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the 
Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am an everyday American who works as a freelance illustrator, serving 
clients in the entertainment industry. I have also worked in the education and childcare sectors. I have worked hard for years to develop the skills and knowledge to build my business, and have been lucky enough to make a decent living and support my family – until recently.
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI 
(Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy thousands of American small businesses like mine with their recent demand to create special carve outs in copyright law. They also put children and vulnerable people at risk by using images of children and young people pulled without permission from social media, educational websites, and so on, and have been consistently used to create “revenge porn” of young people, as well as prey upon innocent Americans. If you love generative AI, you love hurting children.  
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work made by 
people. My unique work, and the work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American artists, musicians, filmmakers, and educators was taken and fed into these AI systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest our work, reassemble it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly competing with us and cutting us out of the marketplace.
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create 
exceptions and loopholes to make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow suddenly “fair use”. 
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – 
regardless of who owns it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.


Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American 
copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate. 
Want to protect American innovation and children from predators? 
Protect American artists and children. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away 
creator content to Big Tech companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
• First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday 
Americans give effective consent , so that we can decide when 
and where our work is used by AI systems.
• Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing 
marketplace, so that the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech.
• Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big 
Tech companies, requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


