PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-b8f3-esbu
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1492
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  NSF AI2ES
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
OSTP AI RFI Action Plan Response


Faisal D’Souza, NCO 
Office of Science and Technology Policy 
Executive Office of the President 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
Submitted by email to 
Re: Request for Information (RFI) on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action 
Plan (“Plan”) 
Executive Summary  
The NSF AI Institute for Research in Trustworthy AI in Weather, Climate, and Coastal 
Oceanography (AI2ES) strongly supports the O STP’s efforts to outline policy and enact action to 
enhance America’s AI capabilities and innovations. AI is growing and expanding exponentially 
and it is important that the US continue to lead in this important area. 
Our recommendations fall into the following thematic areas:  
1.The need for expanded federal investments in use-inspired AI
2.The need for new approaches to cross-sector partnerships for AI acceleration
3.The need for expanded investment into AI workforce development and education.
About NSF AI2ES 
AI2ES is one of the inaugural NSF AI institutes, funded in 2020.  As an AI institute, our primary 
focus is to develop novel AI focused on real-world impact. AI2ES is focused on developing 
trustworthy AI for a variety of Earth system science applications.  We develop AI methods for 
predicting and understanding extreme weather and ocean hazards that threaten U.S. lives and 
property. As a leader in this space, we directly partner with private industry companies, federally 
funded research laboratories, and key public and private sector decision makers whose 
decisions rely on weather predictions and affect society at large, to develop impactful products 
and systems for contexts where AI transparency and assurance is most critical. Our research 
spans the full cycle of innovation from fundamental AI research to operational deployment 
enabling the rapid integration of beneficial and trusted AI models for increased societal impact. 
Need for expanded federal investments in use-inspired AI 
NSF AI2ES encourages expand ed federal investments in use-inspired AI.  By focusing on 
problems of high relevance to society, this will both accelerate the development of novel 
AI methods and directly address critical needs of society. 


AI2ES has focused on the prediction of extreme weather and ocean hazards, which has far 
reaching impacts on American infrastructure and business. Extreme weather events such as 
tropical cyclones and coastal inundation threaten the communities, industry, and military 
operations along our coastlines. Winter weather including snow blizzards and icy conditions 
impede the reliability and efficiency of transportation and shipping across the nation. Severe 
storm hazards like hail, tornadoes, and damaging winds produce billions of dollars of damage to 
privately owned and publicly maintained infrastructure. AI models that predict and improve the 
understanding of these hazardous events must be explainable, understandable, and reliable to 
the professional end-users who depend on them. Other AI institutes have focused on other 
societally pressing needs, including AI for education and health. These needs continue to grow;  
additional investment in use-inspired AI will strengthen American leadership in AI and benefit 
our nation financially. This need for stakeholder-informed AI is not exclusive to the weather and ocean communities. 
As the AI expands and becomes ubiquitous in more industrial sectors, the need for AI 
assurance and trust is growing. We recommend that as a nation we stay ahead of the curve 
by making strategic federal investments, specifically by increasing funding for 
user-informed and use-case inspired AI. We encourage American investments to evaluate AI 
safety and risks, enhance AI explainability, accountability, and assurance, and to ensure 
maximal impact through the inclusion of these cross-sectorial partnerships. This includes the 
co-development of AI systems with private industry, academia, public sector, and non-profits. 
Cross-sector partnerships for AI 
NSF AI2ES encourages the creatio n of novel funded avenues to build cross-sector 
partnerships across private industry, academia, and federal institutions. 
Our ability to produce trusted and assured AI models is dependent on our high-quality 
relationships with our industry and government partners. We prioritize the co-development of AI 
models with the professional end-users of this technology, ensuring AI model safety and 
minimizing unaddressed risk factors. Through this collaborative approach we speed up and 
improve the AI modeling R&D process. Compounding the efficiency gains, we have found that it 
is necessary to engage in cross-sectoral partnership and integrate stakeholder feedback to 
produce societally and industrially impactful AI.  AI models are among–if not the–most powerful 
technologies available to improve the ability of human decision makers to incorporate past and 
predictive information into their decisions. Investing more in learning how human decision 
makers and models can best work together will further amplify efficiency gains.  Creating partnerships across sectors requires significant investment of time and resources on all 
sides.  Federal investment and new pathways for partnerships could significantly enhance such 
collaborations. T his would enhance both the development of fundamental new methods and the 
deployment of such methods. 


Expanded workforce development and educational investment in AI 
NSF AI2ES recommends increased investment in AI education at the community college 
and undergraduate level to maximize the impact of the emerging workforce. We also 
recommend federal investments in interdisciplinary research to bridge the knowledge 
gap between AI and other domains.  
As AI development and use accelerates rapidly, the United States requires an increasing 
number of qualified, well-trained, and technologically advanced professionals to sustain 
American AI dominance. F rom early education to workforce retraining, we must ensure every 
level of the American workforce has appropriate resources and educational material to learn 
how to utilize or create AI systems. This will require federal investment in education at all levels, 
from K-12 to community colleges and universities. 
There is a growing need for AI trained professionals across all industrial sectors, and expanding 
AI education alone will not satisfy this increasing demand. Increased federal investments in 
interdisciplinary research can provide students with opportunities to solve real-world problems 
with AI and contribute to foundational knowledge on how to create AI for specific use cases.  
This will further improve the technological sophistication of the US workforce. 
Conclusion 
As AI is expanding to new industrial sectors and establishing itself as the new frontier of 
innovation, it is critical that the American vision for progress addresses the new opportunities 
and threats that come with new industry-disrupting advancements. In our submission, we 
advocate for federal support for use-inspired AI research, cross-sector collaborations and 
partnerships, and workforce development at the college and university level. Supported by our 
extensive experience in AI for real-world impact, we believe federal support of these foci is 
pivotal for securing future American success, both in the short-term and long-term, ensuring our 
nation benefits scientifically, technically, and financially in this rapidly changing landscape.  


