PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 13, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 87-kv6m -zeqs
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1195
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
pa.usName: Scott Tuffiash 
General Comment
My nam e is Scott Tuffiash and I am  a high school Language Arts and Journalism  teacher at Avonworth High School in Pittsburgh. I
currently teach a new course for this school, and it seem s m aybe a new course for alm ost any public school, titled "Hum an Flourishing"
and I com pleted teaching another new course last sem ester for high school seniors titled "AI and Ethics". Because of this phrase m atching
the Hum an Flourishing course I currently teach -” With the right governm ental policies, continued U.S. AI leadership will prom ote hum an
flourishing, econom ic com petitiveness, and national security.", and because I have studied viewpoints on innovation and regulation
regarding Artificial Intelligence products to create the AI and Ethics class and then teach it, I am  subm itting com m ents m yself and asking
about 50 students from  this school to do the sam e today and tom orrow. 
Less regulation - through Executive Order 14179 - will allow further experim entation of AI products in the free m arket of US consum ers.
What is the current potency of AI products and how can they im pact a consum er? At its best, an AI product can offer m athem atically
derived insights that offer a consum er a variety of outputs. Im proved productivity at a job, m ore efficient use of professional and personal
tim e, potentially im proved sense of well-being or purpose: these are potential benefits of a less regulated m arket of products.
Unfortunately, less regulation places the burden of ethical innovation on the consum er instead of the producer. What is at stake then? In
the worst case scenario, the m ental wellbeing of the consum er…and then potentially the physical life of the consum er itself. Consider
https://techcrunch.com /2024/10/23/lawsuit-blam es-character-ai-in-death-of-14-year-old-boy/. Vice President Vance suggested at the AI
Sum m it in France that products targeting m inors are going to be regulated. But what about the sam e exact im pact of a product built with
effective addictive design, unregulated, for a 19 year old? Is the hum an brain that m uch m ore developed at 19 com pared to 14? How do
we prove that distinction between 14 and 19, reliably, scientifically? Without the onus of regulation on for-profit com panies to
transparently display addictive design qualities, and furtherm ore legal ram ifications for com panies to suffer significant financial losses if they
prom ote addictive design products and can legally hide the design, innovation becom es secondary to a dam aged free m arket of
consum ers of all ages. Rather then a com plete rem oval of content like the AI Bill of Rights from  the prior adm inistration, there should be a
re-opening, however swift, for m ore transparent sharing of inform ation, debate, and policy change within this Presidency, like President
Trum p's White House website from  his first term  of office: https://trum pwhitehouse.archives.gov/ai/ai-am erican-innovation/


