PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2987-vovt
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8118
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I am  an everyday Am erican who works as a visual artist, designer, and author. I have worked hard for years to develop the skills and
knowledge to build m y business, and have been lucky enough to m ake a decent living and support m yself and contribute to m y
com m unity.
The AI system s m ade by Big Tech com panies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy thousands of Am erican sm all
businesses and independent arts professionals like m e with their recent dem and to create special carve outs in copyright law.
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. My unique work, and the work of hundreds of thousands of
other everyday Am erican creators was taken and fed into these AI system s without our consent or any com pensation. They ingest our
work, reassem ble it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly com peting with us and cutting us out of the m arketplace.
Now these Big Tech com panies are asking this adm inistration to create exceptions and loopholes to m ake their practice of stealing
Am erican creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a m achine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it
is som ehow suddenly “fair use”. It is not "fair use" if an individual steals and reproduces copyrighted work, thus it is not "fair use" for a
m achine or a corporation to do so. 
They believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim  that if
this adm inistration does not allow them  to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle Am erican innovation. When in reality, allowing businesses
to use AI to steal hard-working Am erican's creative work is what will stifle innovation.
The purpose of Am erican copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate. 
If the Am erican people do not own our creations, and everything we put online is to be stolen by Big Tech giants, what m otivation is there
to create? If everyday citizens create a new innovative piece of com puter code, a new visual design, or a new piece of m usic only to have
it im m ediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly m ake a living doing these
things?
Protecting Am erican creators is what protects Am erican innovation. Do not create any copyright exem ptions that enable Tech com panies
to steal from  creators and exploit the innovations of everyday Am ericans without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency.
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan m ust focus on ensuring a fair m arketplace with com petition, by not giving away creator content to Big
Tech com panies:
First, the governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, em powering our rights as creators to
decide when and where our work is used by AI system s.
Secondly, the AI Action Plan m ust encourage a robust licensing m arketplace to preserve the incentive to create for sm all businesses and
individuals. Our work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work belongs to the original creators, not just Big
Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan m ust dem and transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose the m aterial used in their


training datasets, and label content that is AI generated.
I am  not anti-technology, I am  consistently im pressed by the capabilities and innovations that we are achieving with tech. But we cannot
sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Am ericans and give it away to corporations by rewriting copyright law.
Thank you for your tim e and attention on this m atter.


