PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3b1m -7vnl
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9332
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
See attached file(s)
March 14, 2025
From :
Noah Cam podonico
Audio professional
Fort Wayne, INDIANA
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am  an everyday Am erican in the sound design industry which serves clients in the entertainm ent industry. I have worked hard for years to
develop the skills and knowledge to build m y business.
The AI system s m ade by Big Tech com panies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy thousands of Am erican sm all
businesses like m ine with their recent dem and to create special carve outs in copyright law.
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. My unique work, and the work of hundreds of thousands of
other everyday Am erican creators was taken and fed into these AI system s without our consent or any com pensation. They ingest our
work, reassem ble it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly com peting with us and cutting us out of the m arketplace.
Now these Big Tech com panies are asking this adm inistration to create exceptions and loopholes to m ake this practice of stealing
Am erican creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a m achine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it
is som ehow suddenly “fair use”. 
They seem  to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim
that if this adm inistration does not allow them  to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle Am erican innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of Am erican copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the Am erican people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the
incentive to create? If everyday Am ericans create a new innovative piece of com puter code, a new visual design, or a new piece of m usic
only to have it im m ediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly m ake a living
doing these things?
Want to protect Am erican innovation? Protect Am erican creators. Do not create new copyright exem ptions that allow Big Tech
com panies to exploit and steal from  creators and everyday Am ericans without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency.
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech com panies, but rather on ensuring a fair
m arketplace with com petition:


First, the governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, so that we can decide when and where
our work is used by AI system s.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is
preserved. Our work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just
Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their
training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
If you have even a m odicum  of actual respect or com passion for the people of this country, as you regularly claim  you do, you will not
allow these com panies to bleed us all dry. I doubt you have any intention of listening to any of the people writing into this com m ent period,
but understand that the Am erican culture you so desperately profess to want to preserve and protect is fundam entally reliant on the work
of creative people to exist. Allowing com panies like OpenAI and Google to destroy the arts is to allow the death of culture itself. 
Thank you for the opportunity to com m ent on these im portant issues.
Attachments
AI ACTION PLAN COMMENT (1)


March 14, 2025 
From: 
Noah Campodonico 
Audio professional 
 
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
I am an everyday American in the sound design industry which serves clients in the 
entertainment industry. I have worked hard for years to develop the skills and knowledge to build 
my business. 
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google 
threaten to destroy thousands of American small businesses like mine with their recent 
demand to create special carve outs in copyright law. 
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work made by people. My unique work, and 
the work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators was taken and fed into 
these AI systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest our work, reassemble 
it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly competing with us and cutting us out of the 
marketplace. 
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. 
They are suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow 
suddenly “fair use”.  
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to 
rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation. 
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to 
protect the incentive to create and innovate.  
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen 
by Big T ech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Am ericans create a new 
innovative piece of com puter code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it 
immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will 
we possibly make a living doing these things? 


Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and 
everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency. 
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition: 
●First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent, so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
●Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that
the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense
economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original
creators, not just Big Tech.
●Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what
content is AI generated.
If you have even a modicum of actual respect or compassion for the people of this country, as 
you regularly claim you do, you will not allow these companies to bleed us all dry. I doubt you 
have any intention of listening to any of the people writing into this comment period, but 
understand that the American culture you so desperately profess to want to preserve and 
protect is fundamentally reliant on the work of creative people to exist. Allowing companies like 
OpenAI and Google to destroy the arts is to allow the death of culture itself.  Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues. 


