PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-gm 7a-pytj
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2073
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
I do not believe that generative AI, such as OpenAI or ChatGPT, provides any benefit to individuals or society at large. From  what I have
seen, these AI program s are faulty and prone to error. I once tested ChatGPT by asking it if 2333 is a prim e num ber, and it said no,
despite the fact the 2333 is in fact a prim e num ber. Me and m y friends also tested OpenAI once by asking it to write a short paragraph
about Abraham  Lincoln, and it did, but went off on this huge tangent about how you shouldn't trust everything that you read online. I've
also seen plenty of m em es about how Google's Gem ini recom m ends m aking pizza with glue and such. What I'm  saying is that it's going to
take m ore than a CEOs word to convince m e that these are accurate.
It's also going to take m ore than a CEOs word to convince m e these AI program s are useful. Program s like Asana, Microsoft Team s, and
Monday.com  already help with m aking office workflow and project organizing. Google docs and Microsoft Word already have built in
spell checkers. Physical calculators and calculator apps are everywhere. It m ay take som e tim e to learn the specific functions on a
scientific calculator, but why would I go to an AI program  to do so when I can just fiddle with the calculator right then and there? In term s
of archiving data, there's already m illions of wikis on the internet that docum ent basically every subject im aginable. Encyclopedia
Britannica also has physical and digital copies of its books, as do m any other publishing houses. What is the point of trying to archive all
this data into one place again? Saving m e 5 seconds when I google search a sourdough recipe is hardly som ething to celebrate. Basically
every purported benefit or use of AI is already accom plished by som ething already on the m arket.
In short, I do not believe that investing billions of dollars into generative AI will NOT create m arked im provem ents and is ultim ately
wasteful and inefficient.


