PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-ljxl-8cg8
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2401
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Sasha Hayes-R usnov 
 Email: 
General Comment
The US fram ework for AI developm ent ought to adhere to certain core principles to ensure all Am ericans share appropriately in any
ultim ate benefits:
1. Recognition of rights to individual data privacy and ownership of data that m ay be used to train m odels, including voluntary opt-in
(rather than opt-out) legal structures, structures for com pensation of creators of data used for training, and equitable rem edies for
infringem ent on individual rights that include requirem ents to m ake m odels trained on illegally acquired data free and open to the public.
2. Energy consum ption reduction, carbon neutrality, and environm ental harm  reduction, including requirem ents for the use of green energy
for new data centers, prohibition of infringem ent on public water sources, and requirem ents that chips m anufactured in or im ported to the
US be built using m aterials from  m ore-sustainable m ining operations.
3. Adherence to hum an-based decision-m aking and liability as AI is im plem ented to support governm ent and private roles, including
securities trading, vehicle operation, all categories of SIGINT and surveillance, law enforcem ent, and m ilitary applications. The law m ust
hold hum ans liable for actions in all circum stances, whether the person operating and acting on advice from  an AI program  assistant or, in
cases where an AI's advice or actions are not actively verified by a hum an in real tim e, the hum ans who have trained or built the AI in
question.
All three of these principles will tend to m ake AI developm ent m ore costly and challenging. However, the alternative will be a future in
which all Am ericans feel the harm s of AI developm ent while only the few will reap the rewards.


