PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-217y-jeba
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7947
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Despite all of the ethical, m oral and regulatory concerns about AI and how it steals work from  others and reposts it as its own or how it
em its m ore carbon em issions than m ost sm all towns, I want to stay everything with AI is so painfully noticeable and honestly just like a
m ajority of other Am ericans, anything that AI touches is so rem arkably CHEAP looking. Its as if nobody cares about the product that
they slap their AI stuff on or use it to prom ote and people have gotten so good at distinguishing when the tentacles of AI have touched
anything from  m arketing, design and even prom otion. AI is basically saying "we are cheap and we don't have a good product to invest
tim e or m oney in so we're going to hire nobody to take labor and slap it on it to sell to others to buy an inferior product or sell an inferior
idea." 
In short, AI is the 2020s version of Colgate lasagna or the failed attem pt of the Dilburrito. Nobody wanted it, nobody liked it, it was m ass
m arketed to everyone. It was cheap and frankly it was horrible. Do you want to have anything you do associated with a boorishly dull and
cheap product? No. So this is another m ajor reason why I am  against AI and the use of AI taking the rights of others to m ake product of
its own so people can use that to lazily slap it on their other work (or lack of.) People know what AI does, who it steals from  and frankly,
they won't buy once they know. 
Even when you do use it and you think you're covering it up by still using AI, believe us, WE KNOW you're using it for your project.
Stop. No.


