PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2i8c-u4k5
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8339
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I do not believe AI holds a place in the future of the US. AI steals from  m y livelihood as an Am erican and profits off of theft. AI is
overhyped and is fleeting in the eyes of the Am erican public. AI is actively harm ing sm all business owners in Am erica, and it will only
continue to do so if copyright protections aren't honored. Changing the rules and giving AI a copyright infringem ent exem ption will hurt
real Am ericans, including m yself. If the argum ent in favor of granting an exem ption is that honoring copyright m akes it harder to develop
the software, then that software doesn't deserve to exist. If it cannot exist without harm ing people's livelihoods, then it is not worth
supporting. In a capitalist society, plenty of other com panies have m anaged not only to survive but to thrive under the current legal
standards. If we m ake an exception for AI software com panies, they then constitute a strain on the m arket by existing when the weakness
of their products should have rem oved them  from  the field. And again, if the argum ent is that following the law would m ake it too difficult
to develop software, I would rem ind AI developers of the am azing people who wrote the code that brought us to the m oon, well before
any version of advanced com puting existed. Those intelligent, resilient Am ericans did not cower in the face of difficulty. Further, if the AI
m odels need m ore inform ation in order to grow, what are they supposed to do after they've fed in all of the stolen m aterial that should
have been protected under copyright laws? Because they'll eventually run out of new inform ation to feed the program s, and the program s
them selves will cease to be valuable or worthwhile. And then you've stolen from  the Am erican public for nothing. This is not only sham eful
but dangerous, and it will do detrim ental harm  to the Am erican econom y.


