PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-v85i-xagy
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3516
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Alexa Alter
General Comment
I appreciate the value of AI, and the value of the Am erican AI industry, and believe that it is im perative to m aintain the value of this critical
and developing technology into the future. However, copyright laws have value, protecting the work of creatives and allowing them  to
profit off of their work, m aintaining the cultural dom inance of Am erica in the global sphere regarding writing, m usic, and art, both digital
and traditional. Allowing AI com panies specifically to bypass these vital rules that protect creatives from  sm all-tim e writers and indie
film m akers to the veritable titans of the industry such as Disney or Stephen King would be disastrous to Am erica's cultural cache in the
global sphere of art, and be financially ruinous to the vast m ajority of these creatives, replacing their product with a less-com petent fake
that can only m ake derivative works from  their training data. If im plem ented, m any creatives would suffer, Am erica's econom y would
suffer, and Am erica's global cultural dom inance would suffer im m ensely. AI is an im portant burgeoning technology, but we need to look
elsewhere to m ake AI a valuable technology than stripping creatives of the rights to their work to allow large tech com panies to create a
com petitor that cannot com pete in quality but rather in cost in flagrant violation of the history of copyright law as it has stood. Not only is
this the incorrect strategic decision to m axim ize cultural output, it is also ignorant to the history of copyright law in the United States. If
artificial intelligence com panies wish to have access to the creative works of artists in the US, they should be required to individually ask
for perm ission as every other interested party has had to do from  the introduction of copyright law in the m odern world, and if this is not
viable, then they should find another m eans of producing a viable product that can enhance the quality of life of Am ericans rather than strip
it away by m aking it m ore difficult to access art from  Am erican artists. I strongly urge that the im plem entation of this policy be
reconsidered and im m ediately halted.


