PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1k2p-kfqb
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7536
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Jack Johnson
Address:
General Comment
Please consider expanding and strengthing the copyright protections of artists, writers, photographers and film akers. Copyright law has
been ignored or overridden when it com es to AI training m odules. The m ajor AI players are all using stolen writings and artwork. The AI
product has no m erit without the work of people, whos work is being used without com pensation. This is labor without pay. AI has its
place in non-creative industries, no hum an work industries, and can be extrem ely useful in the pursuit of scientific and m edical
advancem ents. However, generative AI is pursued with the sole purpose of putting people out of work. Giving AI com panies a free pass,
will do nothing but harm  the am erican people. AI is already harm ing am ericans, as it is pushed onto every website and electronic device,
withou options for opting out. AI should be opt in, only. I am  sick of new AI options appearing without m y consent on m y personal
devices. I have no intention of using AI as a product. I have no intention of paying for products that us AI as features. I am  an artist, and
bank worker, where m y prim ary function is research, problem  solving, and verbal/written com m unication. The generative AI com panies
are a threat to m y job, using the stolen collective work of the m asses, to create language m odels with the sole purpose of replacing the
labor force. AI is terrible for the Am erican people. Also its a scam . There is no value in the product. Its a m assive m oney and energy sink
and created literally no profits. Its all a bet on suckers who want to chase the next big thing, but this isn't it. This is a waste of tim e and
m oney. Nobody wants this. Please. You need to protect us from  AI. It is already doing dam age to the am erican people. INCLUDING
WHITE AMERICAN MEN.


