PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-297y-elwi
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8117
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
I am  in absolute opposition to this proposed plan. I believe that openAI having total copyright im m unity will do untold dam age to all
Am ericans, both in and outside of creative spaces as it dam ages creatives' value, which in turn will lead to cultural stagnation, as rapid,
unchallenged ai use will lead to com pounding loss in creative pursuits as m any will be pushed out of their jobs. For som e reason, despite
driving revenue and form ing the backbone of profits and consum erism , Am ericans are increasingly being discarded from  their jobs not for
m erit, but rather for short term  gains that have no future beyond the im m ediate gain. Without nurturing a strong and healthy working class,
our Econom y and Am erican way of life, are in danger of crum bling away that will leave everyone, no m atter how rich, in danger.
I would like to em phasize, I do not dislike or hate AI. I grew up dream ing to befriend Data from  StarTrek, to m e, I see AI as one of
hum anity's next step of evolution, but com panies like OpenAI do not and have not given m e any confidence that they have anything but
unhealthy, short sighted plans that will only destroy Am erican Excellence if left unchecked. 
These m ay be bold statem ents for why I believe one of the m ost under appreciated work forces in our country should not be
overshadowed by trivial and em pty prom ises that tech com panies m ay be pushing. The ability for hum an individuals to be able to take an
idea, words and im ages of the m ind and be able translate these things to be shared is one of hum anities greatest traits and should be
cherished. Our entire recorded history of this planet is recorded by hum an artists and craftsm en, forging eternal recordings that inspire,
educate and enrich cultures and people to com e, to reject such a powerful part of our existence is outright inhum ane and ungodly and will
be the start of our end. 


