PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zghb-eg7c
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6112
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Am ericans for Tax Reform
General Comment
See attached PDF for Digital Liberty's com m ents in response to this inquiry. We appreciate the opportunity to subm it.
Attachments
Digital Liberty Com m ents AI Robocalls and Robotexts
Digital Liberty Com m ents on AI


Before the  
Federal Communications Commission  
Washington, DC 20554  
In the Matter of             ) 
 ) 
Implications of Artificial Intelligence Technologies   )   CG Docket No. 23 -362 
on Protecting Consumers from Unwanted        )   
Robocalls and Robotexts  ) 
Comments on Notice of Proposed  Rulemaking  and Notice of Inquiry by 
Digital Liberty  
James Erwin  
       Executive Director  
September 19, 2024  


Digital Liberty appreciates this opportunity to submit short comments on  the 
Commission’s Notice of  Proposed Rulemaking and Notice of  Inquiry o n use of AI technology for 
unwanted robocalls and robotexts. Our comments seek to address only one implication of this 
proceeding, which is the potential suppressive effect on voter turnout the Commission could 
have if it is too aggressive in its prosecution of unwanted robotexts and provides insufficient 
safeguards or standards of evidence for wrongdoing.  
On the surface, there is nothing unusual about this proceeding. The Commission  has done 
a commendable job1 enforcing existing laws to prevent scam calls from deceiving consumers and  
should continue to  enforce existing law2 as AI technologies make these calls more convincing. 
There may be some need to adopt new measures to respond to new technologies used to commit 
fraud, and the NPRM contains such proposals as increased fines and expanded call -blocking 
requirements for cons umers on the Do Not Call list.  
But there is a delicate balance between preventing scams and blocking  legitimate  uses of 
robocalls.3 While the COMMISSION  should certainly block  illegal  robocalls and  texts, 
unwanted  communications are sometimes necessary. When the Commission gets too trigger -
happy about requiring carriers to block calls and texts, businesses can not reach customers, 
schools can not notif y parents, and political campaigns cannot reach voters.  
This NPRM is especially alarming on that last point. According to the Commission’s press 
release  from September 4, the rulemaking would:  
•Expand the requirement to block calls based on a reasonable do -not-originate list to
include all U.S. -based providers in the call path.
•Bolster existing requirements for providers to block calls following Commission
notification to ensure that bad actors cannot circumvent the requirement.
•Establish a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) code 603+ as the exclusive code to notify
callers when calls on IP networks are blocked based on reasonable analytics to better
correct erroneous blocking.
•Establish a base forfeiture for providers that fail to take affirmative, effective measures to
prevent customers from using their networks to originate illegal calls, and allow the
Enforcement Bureau to increase this amount to the maximum allowed for non -carriers
under the Commission’s rules.
1 Erwin, J. (2024, July 11). COMMISSION  continues robocall crackdown . Digital Liberty. 
https://www.digitalliberty.net/ Commission -continues -robocall -crackdown/  
2 Erwin, J. (2024a, May 28). COMMISSION  proposes 6m fine for fake Biden robocalls before the NH primary  . 
Digital Liberty. https://www.digitalliberty.net/ Commission -proposes -6m-fine-for-fake-biden -robocalls -before -the-
nh-primary/  
3 Erwin, J. (2019, June 27). COMMISSION  should think twice before hanging up on Robocalls . Digital Liberty. 
https://www.digitalliberty.net/ Commission -should -think -twice -before -hanging -up-on-robocalls/  


•Require originating mobile wireless providers to block text messages following
Commission notification of suspected illegal texts or ultimately have all of their text
messages blocked by Commission direction.
•Require mobile wireless providers to offer email -to-text as an opt -in service to better
protect consumers.4
The penultimate point is concerning because it would require carriers to block robotexts 
after FCC  employees contact them about  suspected  illegal texts. There is no due process 
requirement that wrongdoing be proved or that fines be levied; agency personnel  could shut 
down robotexting operations on mere suspicion, perhaps without even notifying the originator of 
the texts by working with the carriers directly.  
The NPRM itself does not explicitly empower the Commission  to take action on mere 
suspicion, but authorities derived from the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 are the 
basis for that bullet point in the press release. Either way, it gives a clear indication of how 
current FCC leadership  and staff would choose to interpret their authorities, unless explicitly 
prohibited by statute or regulation.  
The problem is that robotexts are an important tool for get -out-the-vote (or GOTV , as it is 
known in the trade) efforts. Research has shown that robotext campaigns are one of the most 
effective ways to get voters to the polls. A  study  of Danish elections f ound that robotexts are 
effective because they are more noticeable than legacy methods like posts or mailers, are more 
cost-effective than making calls, and are more time -efficient than door -to-door canvassing.5 
Similar analyses  by the  NAACP  in Mississippi6 and analysis by  Tech for Campaigns  of 
27 states in the 2020 election showed similar increases in turnout to the Danish study.7 All three 
found that the increase was not statistically significant, only 0.7 percent, but the consistency 
across all three indicates that it is a reliable indicator of increased voter turnout from robotexts. 
Furthermore, 0.7 percent is more than sufficient to swing close elections, of which there are 
many in the United States for competitive Presidential, Senate, House, and state legislative 
reaces.  
Much like the FBI, CDC, and other federal agencies contacting social media companies 
about  deleting user posts, this could easily be abused.8 The Biden Administration has made clear 
4 Federal Communications Commission. (2024, September 4). FCC TO CONSIDER RULES TO FURTHER 
PROTECT CONSUMERS FROM UNWANTED CALLS & ILLEGAL TEXTS. Docs.Fcc.Gov . Retrieved 
September 19, 2024, from https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/DOC -405205A1.pdf.
5 Upload Software (2023, December 21). New study shows that text messages drive voter turnout . Mobile 
Commons. https://uplandsoftware.com/mobile -commons/resources/blog/new -study -shows -that-text-messages -drive -
voter -turnout/  
6 Goldstein, G., & Roman, M. (2021, May 24). Texting out the vote: Do GOTV texts help motivate voters to the 
polls?: Sister district project . Sister District. https://sisterdistrict.com/research/do -gotv-texts -motivate -voters/  
7 2020 political texting report . Tech For Campaigns. (n.d.). https://www.techforcampaigns.org/impact/2020 -texting -
analysis  
8 Murgida, J. (2023, July 10). Should bureaucrats police social media? . Digital Liberty. 
https://www.digitalliberty.net/should -bureaucrats -police -social -media/  


they do not value freedom of speech on the internet when their preferred narratives about 
COVID -19 are contested. What is to stop the Commission  from ordering carriers to block texts 
from the administration’s opposition on the pretext that such texts are “unwanted”? Doing so in 
the run -up to (on even on) Election Day would not give the campaign time to react and contest 
the injunction before the p olls close. This Commission’s  rulemaking could amount to 
bureaucratic voter suppression.  
 
While the rule is unlikely to take effect before this coming election, it is not difficult to 
imagine abuses by future administrations, protestations of the “independence” of the 
Commission  notwithstanding.  Even more nefarious, the Commission  could use the complaints of 
some voters who do not want to receive text blasts as a pretext to dub all such blasts from a given 
campaign “unwanted,” require the carrier to shut down the GOTV operation on the “suspicion” 
that the unwanted calls are illegal , and block te xts to voters who are happy to receive a reminder 
to go to the polls.  
 
Even if no voters want to be reminded by text to vote on Election Day, is not higher voter 
turnout a civic good in itself? The Commission  should work to increase voter information and 
turnout, not potentially stand in the way.  
 
To ensure that Americans have access to timely information about Election Day and to 
give campaigns a fair shake at efficiently reaching voters, the Commission  should clarify in any 
final rule that more proof of wrongdoing than mere “suspicion” is required to block robotexts 
and include an explicit exemption for GOTV efforts. Our nation’s civic health will be improved 
by it.  
 
Digital Liberty thanks the Commission for the opportunity to comment on this matter, 
and we commend the Commission for seeking public feedback on this matter.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Before the  
National Science Foundation  
Washington, DC 20554  
In the Matter of  ) 
) 
Request for Information on the Development  )   90 FR 9088  
of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan ) 
) 
Comments on Notice of Notice  of Inquiry by  
Digital Liberty  
James Erwin  Executive Director  


Introduction  
Digital Liberty  appreciates this opportunity to submit comments on the future of A rtificial 
Intelligence  regulation in the United States. The White House is to be commended for consulting 
the public on this issue, which has the potential to transform the American economy , society, our 
very way of life.  
There will doubtless be much fear expressed in the comments you receive through this 
proceeding – fear of dystopian science fiction  scenarios , fear of an uncertain future of work , fear 
that their favored constituency will not be at the table dividing the spoils . In short, fear of the 
unknown. It is this deep -seeded  human characteristic, a survival instinct rooted in fear of the 
dark night sky w here lurked predators in the caveman days, that motivates a whole host of 
modern -day authoritarian regulation, an i nability to cope with uncertainty that will inform 
countless filings encouraging prohibitions on this or that use of AI, or liability for developers and 
deployers, or restrictions on who is allowed to use frontier systems.  
We at Digital Liberty urge you instead to remember that we are Americans. What made this 
country great was an uncommon instinct to reject the fear of the unknown, the gumption to strike 
out into the wilderness , to conquer a continent , to overthrow the ancient institutions of 
aristocracy and slavery, to liberate the rest of the world from the comfortable tyranny of fascism 
and communism (which most men crave rather than confront the dark uncertainties of liberty, 
until too late they realize the oppression they have invited upon themselves), to put a man on the 
moon, and to  invent  the unimaginable technological devices we take for granted in our daily 
lives. We urge you in these comments to embrace the  vast potential of the  unknown rather than 
to fearfully regulate it . Rather than prohibit AI development, we implore you  to prohibit instead 
the interventions and regulations too often sold as tyranny for the good of its victims.  
Others will surely cover the extensive national security implications of artificial intelligence.  We 
will focus instead on the economic potential of permissionless innovation in AI, explain the need 
for Congressional buy -in to ensure sustained development, and propose as our central policy 
prescription the execution of the Trump agenda on taxes, spending, and regulation . Additionally, 
we suggest  Congressional preemption of state laws and federal regulation that might inhibit 
those economic benefits, in the mold of the successful Internet Tax Freedom Act , and the 
executive removal of Biden -era export controls on frontier AI systems that have not worked and 
only restricted our companies from selling to the global market.  
The need for AI  
As the administration has acknowledged through the president’s executive order on artificial 
intelligence , AI is here to stay,  and it is fitting and proper that Americans embrace innovation to 
continue leading the world in technological development.1 It is no secret that competition with 
the People’s Republic of China and the Chinese Communist Party will remain a generational 
challenge for the foreseeable future. To continue leading the world militarily, the United States 
1 https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/01/31/2025 -02172/removing -barriers -to-american -leadership -in-
artificial -intelligence  


must embrace and enhance its AI leadership. As Senator Ted Cruz recently put it, “ If there are 
going to be killer robots, I'd rather they be American robots than Chinese robots.”2 
But as we have repeatedly argued, competition with China will be primarily economic in nature. 
Remaining ahead or at least at parity with the CCP regime is militarily essential, but embracing 
free market principles in AI development is one of the ways in which the United States can 
obtain a clear advantage over China. While they have an economy of scale that we never can 
match, even with the accelerating implosion of their population  due to low fertility , they will 
never fully embrace market competition to improve outcomes for consumers because their 
regime cannot tolerate the uncertainty of the results. AI freedom in China could threaten the very 
foundations of the regime , so they will never allow it ; we will never outclass them in technology 
or growth if we similarly restrain ourselves . 
And the US can achieve the growth it needs to secure a  dominant position against the Chinese 
regime by allowing unfettered AI innovation. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent’s state d goal of 3 
percent annual GDP growth has been just out of reach for over two decades  as politicians 
consistently aim for it. To finally meet this ambitious target and usher in a true American Golden 
Age, and bury China’s communist system in the process, permissionless AI innovation may be 
the final ingredient. The administration’s agenda  to slash regulations, shrink the federal 
bureaucracy, unleash energy production (both fossil fuel and nuclear) , and mak e the 2017 Trump 
tax cuts permanent will all enable economic growth. All that is missing is a stimulant to either 
increase the workforce or boost productivity. AI will do the latter and  may be just the push 
need ed to get  growth to the Golden Age target.   
A 2023 analysis by Goldman Sachs  found just this.3 According to the Goldman Sachs report, 
U.S. GDP growth will begin seeing an impact by 2027 with growth increasing annually into the 
2030s . Growth rates  in this period are expected to exceed  3 percent,  in comparison to the 1.9 
percent estimated GDP growth without AI. Th ese numbers also account for the negative effects 
of declining R&D expenditures which only serve to strengthen the case for AI being a boon to 
the US economy.  They also assume all other factors being equal, including no restoration of the 
R&D tax credit and other expired pro -growth  aspects of the 2017 tax cut that Congress is 
currently attempting to restore through reconciliation. The restoration of these provisions for 
American companies, continued lowering of the corporate income ta x, and a permissionless 
innovation disposition by the federal government could well deliver this 3 percent target sooner 
than 2030 , but only if AI is allowed to flourish.  
Other  analyses of the growth potential of AI have  consistently  found that gains in workforce 
productivity could add trillions to our GDP.  An October 2023 report by McKinsey Global 
Institute found that the AI “arena” could grow from about $85 billion in revenue in 2022 to 
$230 –$920 billion by 2040. By 2040, AI software/services could rival today’s major industries 
in size.4 
2 https://insideaipolicy.com/ai -daily -news/senate -commerce -chair -cruz-opposes -regulating -ai-avoid -killer -robots  
3 https://www.goldmansachs.com/insights/articles/ai -may-start-to-boost -us-gdp-in-2027  
4 https://www.mckinsey.com/mgi/our -research/the -next-big-arenas -of-competition  


AI is also expected to create significant changes in the labor market and productivity. Mc Kinsey 
projects that by 2030, automation could take over tasks accounting for 30  percent  of hours 
worked in the U.S compared to about 22  percent  absent generative AI. By 2040, the total annual 
revenues from new high -growth arenas could reach $29  to $48 trillion globally, thanks in large 
part to AI. AI leaders are investing heavily in R&D to employ new technologies as fast as 
possible. This can be seen in the efforts of companies such as OpenAI , Meta,  and Google 
devoting resources into proprietary data and computing infrastructure to maintain a competitive 
edge.  This suggests AI could raise pr oductivity growth by enabling humans to offload certain 
types of work, while potentially creating new jobs.  
This is a stumbling block politically because the fear of jobs automating away justifies much of 
the opposition to technological progress in our current moment. These fears are understandable, 
but historically illiterate. Leaving aside the obvious that a parochial attachment to currently 
works usually dooms societies to stagnation and atrophy, other research suggests creative 
destruction entails creation  of new job roles. A study from an MIT professor found that 60% of 
current job titles did not exist prior  to 1940 .5 As Peter Dizikes illustrates in his article explaining 
the study : 
In 1900, Orville and Wilbur Wright listed their occupations as “Merchant, bicycle” on the 
U.S. census form. Three years later, they made their famous first airplane flight in Kitty 
Hawk, North Carolina. So, on the next U.S. census, in 1910, the brothers ea ch called 
themselves “Inventor, aeroplane.” There weren’t too many of those around at the time, 
however, and it wasn’t until 1950 that “Airplane designer” became a recognized census 
category.6 
The administration would do well to ignore the doomsaying of the luddites and embrace a future 
where our current jobs become easier and new opportunities open up  with some relatively minor 
reskilling.  
Businesses have also been quick to adopt AI technologies. In an April 2023 McKinsey survey, 
one in three firms had adopted generative AI in at least one business function, and by March 
2024 that share doubled to two -thirds. 40  percent  of companies that were surveyed planned to 
increase AI investments. Now is not the time to abando n our edge and allow ourselves to be left 
behind.  
The need for Congressional buy -in 
To achieve the potential economic growth described above, the administration is already on the 
right track. The legislative agenda we have alluded to multiple times – pro-growth tax policy, 
deregulation, energy dominance, less bureaucracy, and fiscal restraint – will catalyze economic 
growth enabled by AI productivity gains .  
Our concrete policy recommendations are to stay the course on these big -ticket items and work 
with Congress to pass a reconciliation bill that makes the 2017 tax cuts  permanent while 
5 https://academic.oup.com/qje/article -abstract/139/3/1399/7630187?redirectedFrom=fulltext&login=false  
6 https://news.mit.edu/2024/most -work -is-new-work -us-census -data-shows -0401  


permanently doing away with unneeded legacy regulations and federal employees and opening 
up more federal land to resource extraction. We also would echo the entire executive order on AI 
that rolled back the previous administration’s disastrous policies instituting  DEI and labor 
requirements that were informed by fear of the unknown rather than the possibilities of the 
future.  
Herein lies the problem with the EO: it overturned a previous White House EO, that was itself 
intended to overturn the 2020 EO from the first Trump administration. While the policy 
statements are ones we endorse, it is not permanent policy and can be easily overruled by 
whichever single human being happens to occupy the Oval Office. To cement a legacy that sets 
our country up for future success, the administration should get Congressional buy -in on its 
approach to AI. EOs can secure four years of policy; b lack-letter law can secure the next ten , 
twenty, or even thirty  years of AI leadership . 
Additionally, states are moving to regulate AI in disastrous ways. California narrowly avoided 
catastrophe when Governor Gavin Newsom vetoed a measure that would have made developers 
liable for  criminal uses of their products last year.  Colorado was not so lucky.  Virginia’s 
governor needs to do the same before the end of next week or a legislature -passed law will 
impose onerous requirements on innovators in the commonwealth and chill investment. Texas is 
considering a bill that would be a disaster as well.  
In all, there are over 700 federal and state AI proposals that could strangle innovation.7 The 
legislation  most urgently needed from Congress is a preemption of both federal regulation that 
would create the learning period moratorium proposed by the R Street Institute’s Adam Thierer.8 
Such a law would prevent future administrations from undoing the good work of this one, 
effectively codifying the president’s executive order in federal law. It would more urgently stop 
states from acting out of fear and parochial concerns and regulating or imposing liability on AI 
developers . 
Federal preemption has the potential to create a consistent legal environment for AI across all 
states. States are beginning to pass a patchwork of AI -related laws – ranging from bans on 
certain uses such as facial recognition to transparency or risk asses sment requirements that vary 
by jurisdiction. This fragmented approach can raise compliance costs and uncertainties for AI 
developers and companies operating nationally. A federal law that preempts state AI rules could 
prevent burdensome regulations from s tifling AI research and deployment.  
The precedent for federal preemption to prevent bad policy can be found in the Internet Tax 
Freedom Act.9 Passed by a Republican Congress and signed into law by President Clinton as a 
temporary measure in 1998 and made permanent by a bipartisan coalition in 2016, the ITFA 
prevented discriminatory taxes on interstate commerce facilitated by the internet or taxes on 
internet services itself. Congress recognized the possibility of rent -seeking of state, local, and 
federal jurisdictions off the growing internet economy and acted decisively to keep internet 
access and online commerce cheap and available to most Americans.  
7 https://www.multistate.ai/artificial -intelligence -ai-legislation  
8 https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/getting -ai-policy -right -through -a-learning -period -moratorium/  
9 https://www.congress.gov/crs -product/IF11947  


The economic case for a moratorium  
The ITFA is also a good precedent for preemption of AI regulation because it led to the kind of 
economic benefits the United States stands to gain from permissionless innovation in AI.  
According to a 1999 report  by the Department of Commerce:  
IT-producing industries (i.e., producers of computer and communications hardware, 
software, and services) that enable e -commerce play a strategic role in the growth 
process. Between 1995 and 1998, these IT -producers, while accounting for only about 8 
perce nt of U.S. GDP, contributed on average 35 percent of the nation’s real economic 
growth.10
The internet economy was taking off before the ITFA, and it  only accelerated in its aftermath. 
Data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis found that in 2021 , the U.S. digital economy 
accounted for $3.70 trillion of gross output, $2.41 trillion of value added, $1.24 trillion of 
compensation, and 8.0 million jobs.  Growth in price -adjusted GDP was 9.8 percent in 2021, 
greatly outpacing growth in the overall economy, which increased 5.9 percent.11 In 2022, the 
U.S. digital economy added nearly $2.6 trillion in value to the overall U.S. economy.12  
Much of the growth enabled by the ITFA has been through advantageous trade for the United 
States. U.S. exports of digitally -enabled services accounted for 64  percent  of all U.S. services 
exports, driving the $278 billion trade surplus in services.13 Replicating this successful, pro -
innovation policy can do for AI productivity gains what the tax moratorium did for the internet 
economy.  The internet age drove the late 90s boom, the last time that we experienced sustained 3 
percent growth. AI will likely do much of the same  for the late 2020s if we embrace a similar 
preemption policy.  
The legal case for ITFA  
There has been some concern that Congress cannot preempt state law without passing its own 
policy, meaning a total “wild west” preemption would not hold up  as it might represent a 
violation of the anti -commandeering principle based in the 10th Amendment . As we alluded to in 
our opening, we should not fear the uncertainty and opportunity of the wild west, but a thorough 
Congressional research service report has found that the ITFA model would work 
constitutionally for AI.14 
10 https://www.commerce.gov/sites/default/files/migrated/reports/ede2report_0.pdf   
11 https://www.bea.gov/system/files/2022 -11/new -and-revised -statistics -of-the-us-digital -economy -2005 -2021.pdf  
12 https://www.trade.gov/digital -economy -
reporting#:~:text=According%20to%20the%20Department%20of,to%20the%20overall%20U.S.%20economy  
13 https://www.commerce.gov/news/fact -sheets/2024/09/fact -sheet -international -trade -administration -efforts -
advance -us  
14 https://www.congress.gov/crs -product/IF11947  


In short, t he Supremacy Clause contained in the constitution can override patchworks of state 
laws. The CRS notes that Congress may consider preempting state AI laws as a “guardrail” for 
AI development. Preemption as modeled by the ITFA  offers an analogous case to understand 
how possible preemption laws may arise for AI. ITFA was an example of narrow federal 
preemption: it barred states from imposing internet -specific taxes, like taxes on ISP services or 
online -only sales taxes, that woul d “discriminate” against electron ic commerce.  This preemption 
was designed to promote innovation by preventing a patchwork of burdensome state taxes on the 
fledgling internet industry. Congress justified ITFA under the Commerce Clause power to 
regulate interstate commerce.  
CRS notes that despite the 10th Amendment’s anti -commandeering principle (reinforced by 
cases like Murphy v. NCAA  in 2018), ITFA -style preemption is likely a valid exercise of federal 
power: it confers a federal right on private actors to be free from certain state taxes impeding 
interstate commerce. As long as Congress acts within its authority endowed by the  Commerce 
Clause, it can preempt state legislation. Commandeering , on the other hand,  involves forcing 
states to enforce federal mandates in cases whe re the 10th amendment may apply in the states’ 
favor.   
The CRS analysis suggests preemption can be designed to allow some state flexibility such as 
allowing for the federal government to  set baseline safeguards while precluding states from 
initiating extreme policies such as blanket bans on AI technology.  In cases of litigation regarding 
taxation of digital services and products, courts have rested their judgment on “whether an 
analogous tax involving a comparable nondigital good or service exists, and if so, whether the 
good or service is taxed in the same  manner. If a court finds an analogous tax exists, then it 
typically holds that the ITFA does not preempt the state or local government’s tax on electronic 
commerce”. This may hold back the Federal government in preempting certain regulations that 
are connecte d to services or industries that have deployed AI to replace or augment certain 
functions. If a firm produces digital media content that was previously created by humans, it is 
possible that AI NFTs and AI -generated art or other products previously held el igible for 
taxation may apply to similar products created by AI.  
The ITFA is legal and so would a similar law to prevent  a patchwork of state laws interfering 
with interstate commerce.  
Export Controls  
The final policy prescription we offer is an end to Biden’s export controls on frontier AI systems. 
The previous administration imposed export controls on frontier AI so our rivals in China could 
not build advanced GPUs. As the recent Deep Seek demonstration has shown, they did  not work . 
At this point, all they are doing is preventing American companies from accessing and 
dominating the global market . Every country wants to get in on the AI game. They will either 
buy our GPUs or China’s.  China will build it s own, meaning there is no real  national security 
risk in selling globally . It is best to get the world on the American standard, and to emulate our 
open markets and competition.  Restricting global  access to our products is the wrong policy to 
continue  at this time.  


Conclusion  
Digital Liberty once again thanks the administration for inviting comments on th is vital issue. 
American can be great once again, and experience a new Golden Age, if we embrace AI and its 
economic potential. To do this, we must liberate our economy from excessive government 
control, preempt state laws that would undo recent progress, and allow our companies to sell 
chips and GPUs around the world. If we instead cower in fear of the unknown, we will be 
doomed to mediocrity. This administration is already on the right path – a few additional pro -
growth polic ies can win the future for America, leaving our rivals in the dust.  


