PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-j1go-1bww
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2219
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Zach Thom pson
General Comment
As AI tech advances and we consider adopting it m ore broadly, it is essential that we first protect copy-written content, and any content
that has value, from  authorized use in training m odels. This tech has already brought in hundreds of billions in funding, and, if the
projections are to be believed, will bring in billions in profit. AI does not work without the data supplied to its m odels, and if AI is going to
profit from  that data then it m ust com pensate those who produced the data.
Furtherm ore, AI m odel input needs to be tracked to address biases and potentially hazardously in accurate inform ation, especially in areas
of m edicine and m oral action, as people will com e to trust these algorithm s, thus we m ust m ake every effort and take every precaution to
guarantee that they are, in proven fact, trustworthy.
Intense attention m ust also be paid to consideration around those who AI intends to autom ate away. Society is m ade of people, not
corporations, and so societal benefit m ust be the prim ary goal of AI, NOT profit. AI also has great potential to create a dystopian future
where it is used as a tool of oppression. It cannot be used to track the lives of individuals, nor in any capacity to single out individuals for
punishm ent - whether that be crim inal or persecution - freedom  and privacy m ust com e first. There is likely no end to the way this tech can
be abused - often justified as serving the greater good - but as the everyday power we wield increases, and so also its destructive
capabilities, we m ust safeguard ourselves against it. We learned this lesson with nuclear weapons, but “weapons” of the future will not
look so crude. They will be subtle, and m asquerade as anything but a weapon, yet that is what they will be no m atter their nam e.
If we m ove forward with eyes open, honest about the dangers and risks, and do not m ake naive decisions about others m ay use AI, then
we m ay well arrive at a future that benefits all of use and m oves forward into a new age.


