PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 88-9he8-dg9x
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1293
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Karen Lauzau 
General Comment
The supposed goal is ridiculous:
"Prevent unnecessarily burdensom e requirem ents from  hindering private sector innovation."
I m ake art and I also buy from  artists online; generative AI is a scourge and destroying their ability to run their sm all businesses. The AI
Action plan m ust be rejected. AI has gutted entire industries already, especially those in Art and Anim ation. AI is not allowed to train on
our work or writing, it is our intellectual property. It is not allowed to train on our art. Intellectual property law is clear on this. It is illegal
for com panies like OPEN AI to train its m odels on our work without perm ission. They know it, we know it, and won't give them
perm ission, especially without being paid for it. They get to steal from  sm all business and users online by scraping the internet, then we're
expected to let them  profit off of that? It is illegal and unethical and courts are already deciding this. 
AI tools should be dem olished and nowhere near use in governm ent. The ongoing and further theft, m isuse, m isinform ation, disinform ation,
and abuse by businesses and the governm ent is too great. 
Copyright m ust be extended, and by default, AI m odels should not be legally allowed to train on works that they are not given explicit (not
im plied) perm ission to do so. 
Additionally, the environm ental dam age from  using these "tools" that we do not need is catastrophic. There can be no "prom oting hum an
flourishing" with tools that guzzle water and resources for little benefit that cannot already be accom plished with people-centered m ethods
that are less resource-intensive. Getting rid of AI prom otes hum anity and work for hum an beings.


