PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-yufh-kzf1
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5313
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Tom Hyland 
General Comment
Allowing the use of copyrighted works to train AI would be an unm itigated disaster, both for the nation and for m e personally as an artist. 
The entire point of copyright is to prevent unauthorized use of creative m aterials, isn't it? Carving out an exception for the largest
com panies in the world defeats the entire purpose. Furtherm ore, the idea that art can be stolen and plagiarized at any tim e will actively
depress the m otivation of artists to create. Less creation m eans less innovation, across all creative fields, from  writing to visual arts to
film m aking. That has a direct im pact on our own ability to com pete with other nations, in term s of econom ics and forward-thinking ideas.
This is all before getting to the fact that the benefits of generative AI are VASTLY overestim ated. After several years and tens of billions
of dollars invested in the technology, there is yet to be a single actual use case that solves som e kind of problem . It has gotten to the point
where com panies are shoving their AI tools into unrelated products, m aking them  less reliable, just to claim  that m ore people are using AI.
This is an enorm ously expensive solution in search of a problem , and just like NFTs before, the bubble will burst and leave econom ic
disaster in its wake. 
Please don't add to this disaster by undercutting one of the only protections that artists and creatives have under our current system . The
bottom  line is that allowing AI com panies unrestricted access to our work will do incalculable dam age to an already unstable industry
while offering absolutely nothing in return. Artists don't want it, consum ers don't want it, the Am erican people don't want it.


