PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2got-xxk0
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8591
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Public AI Network
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
PAINT Com m ent White House RFI


Date:  March 14, 2025  
To: NITRD NCO, O ﬃce of Science and T echnology Policy (OSTP)  
Re:  RFI on National AI Action Plan 
Dear Administration O ﬃcials,  
On behalf of the Public AI Network1 community, we appreciate the opportunity to provide 
input on how to ensure American leadership in AI. 
We believe that maintaining America's competitive edge, strengthening our economic 
security, and solidifying our global technology leadership can be achieved through strategic 
investments in Public AI infrastructure that empowers all Americans to participate in the AI 
revolution. Our 2024 whitepaper, Public AI: Infrastructure for the Common Good , outlines a 
deﬁnition for Public AI and a vision for a prosperous,  abundant, AI future.2 
Public AI infrastructure complements and bolsters private sector innovation by broadening 
participation and creating new markets and opportunities that beneﬁt the entire ecosystem. 
Just as America's physical transportation infrastructure has enabled businesses of all sizes to 
thrive, Public AI infrastructure would expand participation and competition in the AI industry 
while ensuring the  beneﬁts of AI technology reach communities across  the nation.  
This administration should prioritize developing physical and digital public infrastructure in the 
form of strategic computing resources, high-quality datasets for democracy, public 
foundation models, and standards and shared tools.  
Public AI: Infrastructure for the American Dream 
Throughout our history, America has thrived by expanding opportunity to all citizens. From the 
land-grant college system that democratized higher education, to the interstate highway 
system that connected our communities—robust public infrastructure has always been the 
foundation of American prosperity and strength.  
Today, we stand at a similar threshold with arti ﬁcial intelligence. AI will reshape our economy 
in profound ways, yet currently, the barriers to entry are so high that only a handful of large 
companies in a few coastal cities can fully participate. This concentration threatens both our 
2 Public AI Network, “Public AI: Infrastructure for the Common Good,” 10 August 2024, 
https://publicai.network/whitepaper DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.13914560 1 https://publicai.network/ 


economic competitiveness and our ability to ensure AI re ﬂects American values, priorities,  and 
needs.  
The global AI race is already underway, with China investing billions in state-sponsored AI 
research and development. While China is developing vertically-integrated AI capabilities 
controlled by the state, America's strength lies in our distributed innovation ecosystem. 
However, we risk squandering this advantage if only a handful of large companies can 
meaningfully participate in AI development.  
We need to unlock the potential for innovation by breaking down market barriers, we need to 
expand access to the beneﬁts of AI to all of our communities, and we need to build a robust AI 
industrial sector. Investing in truly Public AI infrastructure ensures that American 
entrepreneurs in communities nationwide can compete and lead, and that the American 
people in every community across our nation will share in the abundance and prosperity of AI 
advancements.  
Reducing Barriers, Not Picking Winners 
The role of government isn't to pick winners in the marketplace. Rather, it is to build the 
infrastructure that reduces barriers to entry so that every American has a fair shot at success. 
Just as the interstate highway system wasn't built by or for speciﬁc companies but instead 
enabled countless businesses to ﬂourish, Public AI infrastructure will create the conditions for 
widespread innovation and AI adoption.  
To that end, we recommend that this administration focus on building the physical and digital 
public infrastructure America needs to open up the AI economy by addressing the critical 
bottlenecks that give advantages to large, incumbent technology companies. Innovation will 
be best served by investing in Public AI infrastructure that prioritizes public access, public 
accountability, and permanent public goods.  We propose ﬁve priority targets for Public AI infrastructure investment: 
1.Strategic Computing Resources : Creating publicly-accessible AI computing clusters
would dramatically reduce startup costs and enable entrepreneurs across America to
build competitive AI applications, similar to how the National AI Research Resource
(NAIRR) pilot is already working to expand access for researchers.
2.High-Quality Datasets for Democracy : Establishing high-quality, publicly-available
datasets would democratize AI development while also enabling AI systems to re ﬂect
2 


America's democratic values like freedom of expression and participatory government.  
3.Public Foundation Models : Leverage the expertise and resources of our national labs,
public universities, and federal agencies to build—instead of buy—new foundation
models to expand the marketplace and address market failures.
4.Support for State and Local Public AI Infrastructure : Infrastructure can exist at many
scales, and supporting state and local governments to develop approaches for
developing Public AI in their own communities presents a potent opportunity for
decentralized experimentation and innovation.
5.Standards and Shared Tools: Developing clear standards for AI development and
establishing interoperability between systems, similar to how TCP/IP standards enabled
the internet to ﬂourish, would  prevent fragmentation and enable innovation at all
levels.
These investments would directly address the most signi ﬁcant barriers  facing small businesses 
and entrepreneurs across America. Currently, the high costs of computing, data collection, and 
specialized talent keep AI development concentrated in a few corporate giants, stiﬂing 
competition, innovation, and autonomy. Public infrastructure will level this playing ﬁeld and 
unlock unprecedented potential for America to compete on the global AI stage. 
Build on Existing E ﬀorts 
Thankfully, we are not starting from zero; there are several existing federal initiatives that align 
with this vision that this administration can build upon: 
●The National AI Research Resource (NAIRR) pilot, expands access to computing
resources, datasets, and tools for AI research and development.3 Passing the bipartisan
CREATE AI Act4 that formally establishes and funds the NAIRR should be a
high-priority.
●The proposed Frontiers in AI for Science, Security, and Technology (FASST) initiative at
the Department of Energy,5 leverages our national laboratories' exceptional capabilities
and resources to advance American AI competitiveness and security. Supporting and
5 https://www.energy.gov/fasst 4 https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/5077/cosponsors 3 https://nairrpilot.org/ 
3 


robustly funding this initiative should be a cornerstone of American AI innovation 
strategy.  
●The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) is a global leader in the
development of standards and best practices for AI. Developing clear and easy to
implement standards that advance accountability, interoperability, and informed
consumer choice will drive competition, innovation, and widespread AI adoption.
These programs demonstrate how thoughtful public investments can expand access to AI 
development without distorting the marketplace. They represent excellent starting points for a 
more comprehensive Public AI infrastructure strategy that could dramatically expand 
opportunity across America. 
Recommendations for Future Infrastructure Initiatives 
As your administration develops its approach to AI infrastructure and evaluates new policy 
proposals, we respectfully o ﬀer these recommendations for how to evaluate and implement 
new infrastructure initiatives: 
1.Prioritize reducing barriers to entry across the entire AI stack—from computing
resources to datasets to deployment tools—with a focus on enabling small businesses
and entrepreneurs in communities nationwide. This would allow 'garage innovators'
across America to build tomorrow's AI applications without relocating to coastal tech
hubs, startups to innovate and challenge Big Tech incumbents, and consumers to
beneﬁt from a dynamic and competitive  market for AI systems and tools.
2.Develop infrastructure with public accountability  so that AI systems built on public
resources align with American values and serve the public interest. Accountable
governance ensures that technology development reﬂects the full spectrum of
American perspectives and prioritizes our pressing national challenges and priorities.
3.Design for permanence and sustainability  to provide a reliable foundation upon which
American businesses can con ﬁdently  build. Long-term commitment to this
infrastructure allows entrepreneurs to make strategic investments with con ﬁdence that
the platform  will remain accessible and consistent.
4.Encourage distributed access and shared bene ﬁts over  centralized control , ensuring
that communities across the country have the power to shape how AI is developed and
4 


deployed in ways that re ﬂect their needs. Success should be measured by how broadly 
the bene ﬁts of AI reach—fueling economic opportunity for Main Street businesses, 
public institutions, and local entrepreneurs in every region, not just a handful of big city 
technology hubs.  
5.Protect public value and taxpayer dollars . We caution against approaches that would
give away federal land or subsidize privately owned projects with taxpayer dollars
without ensuring broad public beneﬁt. The government's job isn't to pick winners in the
mark et; it's to build the infrastructure to make sure everyone has a shot at winning.
The Public AI Network community of technologists, policy experts, economists, and civil 
society stakeholders would welcome any further opportunity to engage with OSTP and the 
administration on evaluating and assessing new proposals and plans. 
Conclusion 
Public AI infrastructure is a historic opportunity to strengthen American innovation. By 
expanding access to AI, we can drive prosperity, reinforce U.S. leadership, and ensure AI 
reﬂects our nation’s diverse values. Just as past generations built the infrastructure that fueled 
American progress, we must now do the same for AI—ensuring that the next generation of 
great ideas can move as quickly as possible from garages to the global stage. 
We stand ready to work with your administration to advance this vision and build an AI future 
that works for all Americans. 
Respectfully, 
The undersigned Public AI Network community members 
Joshua Hewson , CyberKind AI and the Solarpunk AI Initiative 
Nicholas P . Garcia , Public Knowledge 
Brandon Jackson , Metagov 
B Cavello,  Aspen Digital 
Nicholas Vincent, Simon Fraser University and Metagov 
5 


 
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or con ﬁdential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
6 


