PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-lixv-z2b2
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2400
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Fernando Torre
Em ail:  
General Comment
I am  a graduate of the University of Missouri specilaizing in AI. The current generation of generative AI flies in the face of everything I
learned there. There is no sham e, no ethics, and no respect for the law.
This is what's m aking Am erica not-great: we don't even follow our own laws!
If this adm inistration wants to truly change som ething, they can start with that: ensure any com m ercial m odel has paid for the rights of any
works they train on. Ensure anyone who does not com ply has to, not only com pensate the authors whose rights they've violated but pay
punitive dam ages as well. Ensure any non-com ercial m odels that use works without having the rights, get destroyed and are not later
"converted" into com m ercial m odels.
These violations are already being challenged in court worldwide, and courts are leaning towards the fact that AI "stores" the works "in an
electronic retrieval system " --the very prohibition inscribed on the first page of every book in the library of congress-- because it's already
been proven that the original work can be "extracted" from  the AI in a way that is indistinguishable to the custom er.
And these courts are very m uch the ones who should be m aking this decision. The executive, however, can tell them  how to follow it. If
they want to keep using copyrighted works, we can order them  to find the authors and get a rights deal.
We have the technology in Am erica to solve this problem . We have the know-how.
Make Am erica Great Again, Make Am erica Lawful Again!


