PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-gq5k-8ksy
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2078
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
While I understand the argum ent of the benefits of utilizing AI (im proved productivity, springboarding, etc), I feel there are way m ore
negative effectives than good when using AI.
Most im portantly, relying on AI causes a huge detrim ent to individuals as it lim its critical thinking, skill building, and quality control.
It's sad to see that the increase in wanting com panies and individuals to use AI is m arketed as a tim e saver / prom otes im proved
productivity, when in reality it's just causing people to put all their trust in a m achines output vs actively im proving their intellect and
im proving their skills. Why learn to draw when you can have a m achine pum p out a sh*t rendering of a wom an with 7 fingers? Why rely
on and have conversations with professionals in select fields when you can believe the inform ation being spat out at you; which ultim ately
can cause m ore harm  to individuals. Exam ple: People relying on m edical advice, building advice, etc
In addition, I oppose any program , software, com pany, etc that dem otes the im portant of ethics. The fact the world is so hungry for AI
when we have to build server farm s to keep up with the output is just devastating. We would rather force feed people to rely on AI to line
corporate pockets with record breaking profits instead of protecting the planet, and our people, from  harm .
Additionally, inevitably, the increase in AI will take away hundreds of thousands of jobs in skilled labor. Again, corporations and
shareholders are too interested in profits over the ethics. 
I sincerely hope there are people with souls in the Captial...this is the only way things will im prove in our country.


