PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-31ja-32bn
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8775
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Silas Brett 
General Comment
I don't know why I'm  bothering, because on the one side is A Better World, and on the other is Money For Already Wealthy Fascists so
we already know how this m atter is going to be decided.
But obviously the Steals Artwork Machine That Exists To Deskill And Replace Artists should be subject to m aybe som e form  of
accountability. Maybe even just a little bit. Just a tiny bit of accountability. Maybe the people who m ake an entire business m odel based
on stealing from  people should face even the sm allest am ount of accountability, ever, at any point in their lives for the thousands upon
thousands of lives they ruin, m ake worse, destroy, im poverish.
I'm  an artist. We all see the writing on the wall, we understand the potentials of the technology, we already feel it absolutely devastating
the environm ents we exist in and m ake our livings inside of.
I can't expect non-artists to understand the ecosystem  they're com pletely obliterating, though I trust that they do, and they understand that
replacing art with a m achine that spits out big booby lady will do great things for controlling the im aginations and political inclinations of the
populace.
Whatever. Do it then, like, m ake the world worse to live in. Enjoy the slop world.
Transparently, m ost hum ans absolutely disdain art and artists. They want things to be useful, not m eaningful. Why on earth would you ever
risk feeling som ething, thinking about som ething, being vulnerable or introspective, being exposed to new ideas, discovering a part of
yourself in a m essage or an aesthetic or an idea.
What hum ans evidently want is unchallenging arrangem ents of pixels, especially if it f*cks over as m any people as possible to produce it.
It's about m aking art useful, and useful to capital and to fascism  specifically.
But on the extrem ely unlikely off chance that som ehow, people decide they'd like the world to be one worth living in, then AI generation
needs to be subject to strict copyright law.
By all m eans, build the slop m achine again. We know you will, it's literally all you care about, it's all you want to do, it's the reason you
were born -- to m ake the world worse, m ake the slop m achine. Just pay the people who you forced to build it without their explicit
consent so they can finish out the rest of their lives on this d*gsh*t planet with dignity and enough m oney to rent a car to sleep in.
Stupid world. Absolute waste of m y life to have devoted m y tim e, effort, love and attention to learning a skill for m yself and for hum anity
that's inevitably going to be replaced by Big Titty Global Warm ing Machine. Grats on the failed planet.


