PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-t3ks-ci3g
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3192
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: John Lopez
General Comment
As a m em ber of the Writers Guild of Am erica who specializes in science-based stories and has extensive experience with AI -- please see
m y Vanity Fair colum n below -- I would like to argue for the necessity of respecting existing copyright with regards to any AI Action Plan,
especially in regards to training data and the individual rights holders of all intellectual property.
Obviously, as a writer I have a deep, personal stake and self-interest in protecting copyright. But I also think there are two com pelling
reasons that, even for an office like the National Science Foundation, the protection of copyright is actually critical to AI advancem ent
despite the public com m ents m ade by Google and OpenAI. As for-profit entities -- notwithstanding OpenAI's non-profit status, it is
clearly profit-focused -- they have a vested interest in gaining access to copyrighted m aterial for free. They are rent seekers and as any
econom ist will tell you, rent seekers tend to avoid the com petition for innovation at all costs. Even if that m eans upending the copyright
system  we've organically developed in this country since its founding. 
This is m y first reason: such a push m ight result in developm ental stagnation by de-incentivizing OpenAI and Google to find better,
alternate paths to AI that respect the needs of rights holders. As a creative writer, I assure you som etim es lim itations spur greater
creativity. And I think the recent case of DeepSeek illustrates this principle applies to AI as well. 
My second reason has to do with the inherent destruction of incentives for creative thinkers that abandoning copyright structures whole
cloth (as OpenAI and Google wish) would entail. Any AI is only as good as its training data: all m odels create a searchable m anifold out
of this training data com posed of the training data points them selves and the interpolations between them  that the AI weaves together in its
training process. However, to EXPAND that m anifold requires NEW training data. What is the source of this new training data? 
Hum an creativity. Hum an creativity is m ore than just the rem ixing of everything that has com e before -- it is the ingestion through culture,
art and science of experience and inform ation by hum an brains to expand the frontiers of thought and possibility. Even AI system s need
new insight and new data. Relying solely on what has com e before, even if it is regurgitated through synthetic data, will weaken and
dim inish any future AI system s. And if the incentives to hum an authors, artists, and scientists to create that new data aren't sufficient, then
those new m odes of thinking, of possibility, of pushing the boundaries, will not be found. We will stay stuck "within the box." 
While this m ight sound quaint and rom antic com ing from  a writer to a collection of esteem ed scientists such as yourselves, I assure you it is
not. I worked on a television show called Strange Angel, about the start of rocket science in Am erica during the lead up to World War 2.
At the tim e, escape from  earth's gravity was thought to be im possible. Even at a hallowed institution like CalTech, scientific consensus
thought the idea of sending a rocket to the m oon was preposterous. But young students like Frank Malina, inspired by Jules Verne and
classic science fiction, kept pushing to defy scientific consensus. And they eventually succeeded. The sam e was true even of the Germ ans
under Werner Von Braun. In fact, Malina and his associate Jack Parsons bonded with Von Braun (before the war) over this shared love
of science fiction. This is not just a one off. It happens all the tim e, even today. I once worked with the writer Ron Moore who shared
with m e a story of Elon Musk telling him  he was inspired to push Tesla into robotics by the world im agined in Ron's show BattleStar
Galactica.
Writing, artistry, these are already fragile endeavors. Making a living in them  is hard, and the m ost creative m inds -- the ones m ost likely to
think the crazy thoughts that expand the frontiers of knowledge -- often struggle to survive the longest. Copyright, while not perfect, goes
a long way toward m aking it m ore possible for creators to survive. Dam aging that system  in anyway would inevitably lead to a creative
im poverishm ent of our society as a whole. And certainly for any future attem pts to build powerful AI system s that outcom pete the rest of


the world. While I can only m ake a prediction, m y gut belief is that the country that achieves the m ost with AI will be the country that
protects its m ost creative thinks and ensures them  a way to survive financially.
Writers and artists are the research and developm ent sector of hum anity. Cutting this "R&D budget" -- killing the font of new training data
-- will only ensure Am erica loses the AI race to those who don't.
https://www.vanityfair.com /hollywood/2023/07/ai-m ay-kill-us-all-but-itll-never-write-a-good-m ovie?
srsltid=Afm BOoosSgxwwVNufcPcSYPC-MirW1MIkLUlE4AHO4aE_7LdqJEWP3lw


