PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025  
Received: March 15, 2025   
Tracking No. m8a-ukg m-l6bi 
Comments Due: March 15, 
2025  Submission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3409
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Lauren Banka
Email: 
General Comment
I am  a literary agent, m eaning that m y job is to work closely with authors, secure publishing contracts on their behalf, and m anage their
careers. In books, authors retain the copyright, as opposed to other fields where the copyright is always signed over to the publisher,
distributor, em ployer, etc. Copyright is the m ost precious and valuable property m y clients have, and the inviolability of that copyright is
the bedrock of the Am erican publishing industry-- and the Am erican publishing industry is a global juggernaut, setting trends and shaping
the cultural conversation worldwide. 
Generative AI com panies have tram pled authors' right of copyright with no recourse, and they are m aking blatant attem pts to infringe on
authors' ability to exploit all avenues in profiting off their valuable creative labor (i.e., by flooding the m arket with shoddy and incoherent
knockoffs). This is highly detrim ental to one of the industries in which we are globally dom inant, for no benefit: readers don't want to read
AI output, and AI-generated text is widely m et with revulsion, frustration, and m ockery. 
AI and m achine learning are highly valuable when used to analyze data in a way that hum ans cannot, for exam ple in assisting doctors in
analyzing data from  scans. When AI is used to replace hum an creativity, it is both illegal and em barrassingly low-quality. Am erican AI
policy m ust protect the copyright of Am erican creatives; AI com panies should accept that their sm ash and grab hasn't paid off, and focus
on applications of their technology that actually add value.


