PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-xoez-21km
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4550
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: M. Reese 
 Email
: 
General Comment
The notion that these AI com panies "need" large swaths of copyrighted m aterial to train is absurd. OpenAI has increased the am ount of
training m aterial again and again each iteration and the end result has only been m odest im provem ents. The future of AI is going to be in
m aking sm aller m odels with only a select am ount of data in them . 
Requiring com panies like OpenAI to do the bare m inim um  of respecting our laws and copyright system  will not stall progress in AI.
Com panies taking the shortcut of feeding their m odels tons of data in the hope it m akes their m odels better is a crutch. All it is is allowing
them  to take the easy way out rather than doing the hard work of m aking their m odels better.
If we throw open the doors of copyright to allow AI com panies to plunder our nation's IP and intellectual output, all that will happen is it
will be plundered by these com panies and foreign actors without com pensating the people who m ade that data in the first place. This is
good short-term  for AI, but incredibly bad for the future of creative fields. 
The writers, artists, program m ers, speakers, and individuals who m ade this data deserve to protect their work or at the very least share in
the profits. If we do not allow them  to m aintain the ability to profit from  their work but allowing an AI to copy them , then they will cease to
be able to produce their work. This ends up m eaning that they will produce less data that could be trained on when the copyright expires.
Not only is this m orally wrong, it is dangerous. It is a snake eating itself; and a system  where Saturn devours his children in the nam e of
m aking him self stronger is a system  that crum bles - for everyone.


