PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-p8ea-2ax4
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1701
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
While there is no doubt that AI would benefit us in a grand capacity. There are 2 issues that will constantly com e up. Both problem s lie on
the inevitable overreliance of AI. The obvious being the needs for those that already work hard and do m any jobs for us. In term s of of
things such as entertainm ent. AI could possibly fill the needs of an individual person. However at the end of the day. It would still leave
that person wanting m ore. Like a drug addiction. The problem  lies in what AI lacks which are things it can never achieve no m atter how
m uch one program s it. At the end of the day those that request AI for things such as art and entertainm ent will only get the bare m inim um
leaving the user desiring som ething to fill the void that AI just can't fill. 
On a broader scale if left unchecked AI would lead us as people to m ake a sacrifice. What will we sacrifice for such a benefit. Our self-
worth, peace or free will. With AI working unchecked, we as people will very likely no longer be worth of any value. AI would provide
everything that a person needs even the point of as to how to live our lives. No choices would need to be m ade therefore rem oving the
need of som eone in charge. We could bring nothing new to the table as AI will have done that. We wouldn't need to rely on anyone, even
ourselves which in turn our own self-respect would fall away too. Even our own identities as individuals would be rendered m eaningless. 
It would ultim ately com e down to which of the 3 (Self-worth, Freedom  of choice, and Peace) should be sacrificed. 


