PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2ve0-656i
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8631
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I am  a public librarian. I interact with people of a wide variety of dem ographics: ages, genders, ethnicities, incom e brackets, and
professions. We are already seeing the dangers of generative AI in stifling creativity and individual skills, as well as m edia literacy and
research accuracy. AI has incredible potential with very specific datasets, but it also has distinct environm ental, societal, and econom ic
ram ifications, especially when used in generative situations.
The AI system s m ade by Big Tech com panies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy thousands of Am erican sm all
businesses and stifle expertise and creativity if allowed to have special privileges in copyright law.
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. The work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday
Am erican creators was taken and fed into these AI system s without our consent or any com pensation. Big Tech com panies are now
asking for exceptions and loopholes to m ake this practice of stealing Am erican creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are
suggesting that if a m achine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is som ehow suddenly “fair use”. Librarians are big on fair use.
This is not fair use.
Our library’s website was repeatedly finely-crawled by bots shortly after generative AI began appearing, forcing us to block access to
large swaths of IP addresses to stay online. We know it’s no longer just happening to m aterial published online; now, we have to be
cautious of anything that m ight pass through an online server. Merely using a service—often require for daily life—should not require
Am ericans to give up their property.
Tech com panies seem  to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should be theirs for the taking.
They claim  that if this adm inistration does not allow them  to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle Am erican innovation. This is absurd.
The purpose of Am erican copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the Am erican people do not own our creations, and everything we send through a server will be stolen by Big Tech giants, where's
the incentive to create and share our creations? What will be the incentive to learn? Sharing expertise prom otes m ore innovation. If
everyday Am ericans create a new innovative piece of com puter code, a new visual design, or a new piece of m usic only to have it
im m ediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly m ake a living doing these
things, and how can we possibly com pete with the skills of other countries?
Want to protect Am erican innovation? Protect Am erican creators. Do not create new copyright exem ptions that allow Big Tech
com panies to exploit and steal from  creators and everyday Am ericans without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency.
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech com panies, but rather on ensuring a fair
m arketplace with com petition:
- Ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI
system s.
- Encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is preserved. Creative work and skill has
im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech.
- Require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their training datasets, and label what


content is AI generated.
I am  not anti-technology or anti-AI. AI has already done incredible things in the healthcare profession when applied to specific datasets,
and I deeply appreciate tools that expedite processes that would otherwise take hours. But without the incentive of creative ownership,
generative AI datasets will collapse under lack of innovation. Do not sacrifice the hard work and ingenuity of Am ericans and give it away
to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.
Please protect Am erican innovation, skill, and creativity.


