PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-m rxb-o5o0
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2521
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Healthcare Leadership Council
General Comment
Please find com m ents from  the Healthcare Leadership Council and the Confidentiality Coalition attached.
Attachments
NSF AI RFI Com m ents - HLC and Confidentiality Coalition


Healthcare Leadership Council  • 750 9th Street, NW Suite 500 , Washington, DC 20001  • www.hlc.org  
March 15, 2024  
Acting Director Kirk Dohne   
AI Action Plan   
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development 
National Coordination Office   
2415 Eisenhower Avenue,   
Alexandria, Virginia 22314   
Attention: Faisal D’Souza NCO  
RE: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan  
Dear Director Dohne:  
The Healthcare Leadership Council (HLC) and the Confidentiality Coalition appreciate 
the opportunity to submit comments to the Networking and Information Technology 
Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO) and National 
Science Fo undation in response to the Request for Information (RFI) on the 
development of an AI Action Plan. Our members are eager to  provide input to help 
inform the development of an AI Action Plan, as directed by a Presidential Executive 
Order 14179 on January 23 , 2025, to define the priority policy actions needed to sustain 
and enhance America’s AI dominance, and to ensure that unnecessarily burdensome 
requirements do not hamper private sector AI innovation.1  
HLC is an association of CEOs and C -suite executives from all sectors of healthcare 
working to shape the future of the U.S. healthcare system. HLC is the exclusive forum 
for the nation’s healthcare industry leaders to lead on major, sector -wide issues, 
generate innovative solutions to unleash private sector ingenuity, and advocate for 
policies to improve our nation’s healthcare delivery system. Members of HLC – 
hospitals, academic health centers, health plans, pharmaceutical companies, medical 
device manufa cturers, laboratories, biotech firms, health product distributors/ 
wholesalers, post -acute care providers, homecare providers, group purchasing 
organizations, and information technology companies – advocate for measures to 
increase the quality and efficien cy of healthcare through a patient -centered approach.  
1 Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan , 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National 
Coordination Office (NCO), National Science Foundation, (February 5, 2025).   


2 
The Confidentiality Coalition is a diverse alliance dedicated to balancing the protection 
of confidential health information with the need for efficient, interoperable systems that 
enhance healthcare delivery. The Coalition’s aim is to safeguard the privac y of 
healthcare consumers while improving the essential flow of information necessary to 
deliver high -quality, timely, and effective care and facilitating the development of 
innovative medical interventions.  
Overview: AI and Healthcare 
For decades , Artificial Intelligence (AI) has been a valuable tool in healthcare, 
recognizing patterns that help guide  clinical research,  care delivery , medical supply 
chains and more . As more sophisticated machine -learning algorithms and generative AI  
have emerged , human elements of healthcare can be augmented  even further  to serve 
patients and communities . AI-enabled capabilities have the potential to sharpen the 
accuracy of diagnoses, improve clinical decision -making, detect public health threats, 
and enable earlier disease intervention. The scope for applications ranges beyond 
immediate patient care from administrative tasks to improving efficiencies to predictive 
analytics to help forecast disease outbreaks .  
Principles To Guide Further Action  
To inform your approach in developing an AI Action Plan, the Healthcare Leadership 
Council and the Confidentiality Coalition share our principles for the responsible 
development and use of AI in healthcare  as you consider future action, in Addendum  1.2 
These principles support the intent to advance AI developments in support of better 
healthcare while  emphasizing the need for cooperation between regulators and 
stakeholders to protect individual rights and patient safety . 
By allowing innovation to enhance the role of scientists, clinicians and caregivers , 
assess ing applications from a risk -based approach , develop ing a federal uniform 
standard , and adhering to privacy and security protections , the benefits  to unleashing  AI 
can be realized . Further, steps to harmoniz e requirements across business sectors and 
improv e agencies’ collaboration, along with increasing accountability, transparency, 
clarity, and comprehensiveness  are imperative . We urge you to c onsider existing 
regulations that apply to AI enabled solutions and to leverage critical collabor ative 
opportunities with the private sector to enable innovation and promote benefits for 
developers, deployers, and  ultimately  patient s.  
2 Principles for the Responsible Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare  


3 
Instructive Use  Cases Demonstrate the Potential  
As AI continues to revolutionize healthcare, our member organizations are driving 
innovation. A collection of sample use  cases detailed  in Addendum 2 and provide 
instructive examples of private -sector AI advancements in healthcare that:  
✓Facilitate  the access and distribution of resources ;
✓Improve  diagnostic capabilities and sharpen prognoses ;
✓Enhance clinical  decision -making ;
✓Refine research and spur therapeutic development ; and
✓Bolster  staff efficiencies  and eff icacies .
These AI tools illustrate both the breadth and opportunity of private sector ingenuity in 
leveraging AI. As the Trump Administration  develops its AI Action Plan, we urge 
policymakers to consider opportunities that will allow our members to responsibly 
innovate.  
Barriers and Burdens to Remove  
HLC and the Confidentially Coalition strongly support the removal of unnecessarily 
burdensome requirements that restrict the development and deployment of AI ; we share 
your goal of enabling the growth of private -sector AI innovation and advancements to 
improve health. The emerging patchwork of regulations at the federal and state level is, 
perhaps, the most significant threat . Private sector companies  currently navigate 
complex and potentially conflicting regulatory and legal frameworks  pertaining to data 
science use in healthcare and beyond . Additionally, there is uncertainty regarding best 
practices and the risk of a state -by-state patchwork  emerging without federal guidance . 
The myriad requirements create confusion and inconsistencies that stifle innovation, 
increase compliance burdens, and hinder the seamless adoption of evidence -based AI-
drive n advancements  --underscoring the need for a clear, cohesive federal framework is 
essential to provide regulatory certainty.  
Conclusion 
HLC and the Confidentiality Coalition appreciate the opportunity to partner on the 
development of the AI Action plan to build  guiding principles, leverage existing 
innovative tools and remove barriers to advancement. Thank you for considering our 
comments on this RFI.  


4 
We welcome the opportunity for continued collaboration and stand ready to leverage the 
expertise of our private sector members to strengthen and develop effective, forward -
looking solutions. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me a t 
 or 
Sincerely, 
Katie Mahoney  
Executive Vice President and Chief Policy Officer  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  


5 
Addendum # 1 
Principles for the Responsible Development and Use of 
Artificial  Intelligence in Healthcare  
Introduction  
Artificial intelligence (AI) is rapidly evolving, and improving healthcare delivery, 
augmenting research and development across drugs and medical devices, aiding 
diagnoses, assisting intricate procedures, streamlining administrative tasks, and 
identifying individuals who could benefit from additional health services. AI’s full 
potential in healthcare can only be achieved with collaboration between private and 
public sector stakeholders to foster continued innovation. Our members have 
collaboratively  developed the principles  below  to guide a policy framework governing 
the use of AI in the he althcare field.   
Principles  
Benefits and Innovation.  The use of AI tools in healthcare lower s costs, reduce s 
human error, increase s access to care, augments existing clinical practices, alleviates 
clerical and administrative burden, and improve s health outcomes. For example,  AI 
enables review and translation of mammograms thirty times faster  than human review  
with 99% accuracy and  reduc es the need for unnecessary biopsies.3 The benefits of 
existing  tools represent only the first step in realizing AI’s potential to revolutionize 
healthcare and patient outcomes. It is therefore essential that regulators, stakeholders, 
and AI experts work together to ensure any regulat ion or policy  takes a risk -based, 
patient centered approach that supports and nurtures developing AI technology 
innovations , while recognizing industry -specific differences and needs .  
Risk -based Approach.  Regulatory agencies and organizations using AI should adopt  a 
risk-based oversight approach  to AI applications. Risk assessments should be tailored 
to use cases and should be entity -dependent assuming there is a baseline, agreed -
upon floor to align wit h consensus -based risk management frameworks such as the AI 
Risk Management Framework (AI RMF) developed by the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology (NIST). Oversight processes adopted by organizations using 
AI should  routinely  identify potential ri sks, possible mitigation strategies, and 
recommended uses for the tool(s). Regulators should avoid imposing duplicative 
compliance requirements , or those that conflict with existing requirements , that create 
an unworkable operating environment and  consider organizations that follow a 
3 See https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/industries/healthcare/publications/ai -robotics -new-
health/transforming -healthcare.html, referencing the California Biomedical Research 
Association. New Drug Development Process. http://www.ca -biomed.org/pdf/media -
kit/fact -shee ts/CBRADrugDevelop.pdf  


6 
framework such as the NIST AI RMF  to be adopting best practices . It is important to 
permit f lexibility in assessing and allaying  risk to enable companies to tailor risk 
mitigation to the unique considerations of each AI use case - as opposed to prescriptive 
requirements to guide AI oversight.  
Federal Standards. Any regulatory framework(s) for AI applications should be  
developed and applied at the federal level , while reducing regulatory compliance costs 
and creating a safer environment for long -term investment. A single national standard 
that preempts state laws in this area will avoid conflicting, patchwork requirements and 
facilitate compliance without unduly restricting innovation.  
Privacy and Security.  Personal information used in AI should be subject to robust 
privacy and security protections at the federal level. This involves adhering to existing 
health data privacy and security protections in the Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act o f 1996 (HIPAA) and applying equivalent protections for non -HIPAA 
health data, by establishing baseline privacy protections  for the processing of non -
HIPAA personal information  that often comprise the datasets used to train, validate, a nd 
test AI models. Privacy considerations should be integrated into AI tools from the start 
to reflect the importance of data minimization and use limitations. Individuals should 
have the right to be informed about the collection and use of their personal information, 
and the right to access, correct and, if feasible, delete their personal information.  
Congress should establish a single national standard for the use of personal information 
not already subject to HIPAA that encompasses use in AI applications by entitles also 
not regulated by HIPAA. Security safeguards, which may be based on guidelines suc h 
as those provided in the NIST Cybersecurity Framework and RMF, should protect 
against data breaches, data poisoning, exfiltration of models or training data and other 
threats that could expose the data used or alter the use, behavior, or performance of a n 
AI application.   
Harmonization.  Federal agencies such as the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), 
the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), and the Federal Trade 
Commission (FTC) should collaborate to align the federal government’s approach to the 
regulation of AI. This wi ll allow organizations subject to the authority of different federal 
agencies to harmonize their AI implementation approach, to avoid confusion , support 
innovation , and achieve greater compliance.   
While agencies may approach th is technology from varying regulatory angle s, whether 
in safety, privacy, consumer protection or otherwise, they should take a patient -centered 
approach and reach sufficient alignment so that compliance with one framework will not 
result in violation of, or inability to comply with, another. Failure to coordinate regulatory 
frameworks will not only create interpretation and compliance burdens but will slow AI 
development and deployment, and stifle innovation by creating a regulatory patchwork 
incompatible with the way health is delivered.  


7 
Any additional requirements on HIPAA -covered entities must balance the need to 
protect patient privacy while not adding unnecessary burden to the regulated entities. 
Alignment enables consistency to ensure requirements are complimentary.  Additionally, 
conflicts between federal agencies’ regulation of AI will hamper U.S efforts to lead 
globally in the regulation of AI. Other countries want to adopt a framework for the 
regulation of AI that harmonizes across business sectors and regulatory a reas, rather 
than havi ng to deal with discordant or conflicting requirements.   
Accountability.  Health organizations that use AI should determine and establish a risk -
based structure of accountability that extends across its partnerships to ensure that their 
AI use cases are deployed in a responsible, fair, and consistent manner. This includes 
devel oping, implementing, and documenting principles, policies, procedures, and an 
internal collaborative governance structure and controls to oversee the development 
and use of AI applications. These controls should include quality control param eters for 
the data used as well as criteria against which the performance of the AI applications is 
monitored, evaluated, and re -evaluated, as needed, at regular intervals throughout the 
lifecycle  to ensure that AI can be iteratively enhanced and adapt within the risk 
framework.  Accountability should extend to the highest levels of management and 
should include key elements such as risk assessment , training, monitoring,  and internal 
sanctions.   
Transparency.  Transparency is essential to build trust in AI technology. While 
organizations should protect their intellectual property or proprietary technology, they 
should also disclose when they are using AI tools  in high -risk applications  rather than 
instances where it  is used for administrative or clerical purposes . Organizations should 
not be required to reveal the inner workings of their AI systems to the public or 
regulatory agencies, nor is there any benefit in doing so. The detailed disclosure of  
either data inputs or algorithmic processes would not be meaningful to patients, 
providers, or payers, would force AI developers to disclose their intellectual property or 
proprietary technology, could create AI vulnerability risks, and may limit innovato rs’ 
willingness to work with the already highly regulated healthcare industry on meaningful 
AI applications.   
Explainability.  Developers of AI applications for use in healthcare must be able to 
explain  to users how a decision is made by a high -risk AI application in a way that is 
sufficiently understandable to those users. Users should be able to gauge the context in 
which an algorithm operates and understand the implications of the outcomes. Users 
should in turn be able to explain the role of algori thms to individuals affected by AI -
assisted decisions. Explanations should be meaningful and useful, tailored to the 
audience,  and calibrated to the level of risk.   


8 
Addressing Adverse Bias and Discrimination.  There are instances where AI 
applications have been found to be biased, as the underlying, especially historical, data 
sets may lack representative or accurate data. Organizations should take 
comprehensive steps to identify and mitigate potential sources of harmful bias across 
the lifecycle of their model development, and where reasonable and appropriate for 
specific models, align with industry -developed standards. Ongoing inclusion of sensitive 
personal data or d ata of vulnerable groups in AI training data is critical where such data 
is relevant for the intended use and/or population can help alleviate and remedy biases, 
so all patients may benefit from the advances from AI in healthcare.   
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.   


9 
Addendum #2  
Sample Use  Cases of  
Innovative AI Advancements in Healthcare  
Access & Distribution  
Company  Link Description  
Cardinal 
Health  Inside Cardinal’s new 
AI-Driven Warehouse & 
Fulfillment Center  Cardinal is combining two facilities into one single 
distribution and fulfillment center, wherein robotics 
and technological systems will coordinate processes 
such as inbound/outbound and automatic storage.   
IQVIA  IQVIA AI for Good  Support Antibiotic Stewardship (ASP) to identify 
inappropriate antibiotic prescribing : Using  AI and 
IQVIAs National Medical and Prescription Claims 
Data geographic hotspots for , and characteristics of , 
inappropriate prescribing were identified and helped 
inform state and local health departments to support 
targeted ASP programs.  
Johnson & 
Johnson  Six ways Johnson & 
Johnson is using AI to 
help advance 
healthcare  J&J is using AI models to accurately predict supply 
and demand while identifying and responding to 
various risks that can impact J&J’s ability to 
manufacture and deliver products to patients. These 
algorithms analyze historical data on patient 
demographics , demand fluctuations and supplier 
performance, along with real -time events that may 
disrupt the supply chain, to ensure customer needs 
are met with reliable supply.  
Mount Sinai  Assessing calibration 
and bias of a deployed 
machine learning 
malnutrition prediction 
model within a large 
healthcare system  Mount Sinai studied its MUST -plus to evaluate 
current calibration and bias at the time  and gave itself 
recommendations to improve thereafter.   


10 
Improved Diagnoses/Prognoses  
Company  Link Description  
Epic Exploring Generative AI 
Adoption   Outpatient note summarization helps clinicians quickly 
review recent changes for a patient prior to an 
outpatient visit. UMCG found the AI summaries to be 
comparable to physician -created summaries in terms of 
completeness, correctness, and trustworthiness,  but it 
took the physicians seven minutes to write them on 
average while it took AI just over 15 seconds .  
IQVIA  IQVIA AI for Good  Reduced uncontrolled asthma by 17% using real world 
data and AI algorithms to predict patients at high risk of 
being undiagnosed or untreated, allowing providers to 
improve their outreach and treatment.  
IQVIA AI for Good  Identifying misdiagnosed Type 1 Diabetes patients to 
avoid life threatening complications: Using a predictive 
AI diagnostic model, those with T1D most likely to be 
diagnosed with T2D were highlighted, which alerts 
clinicians to ensure that treatment is acc urate to each 
patient, avoiding complications that could be life 
threatening, such as diabetic  ketoacidosis .     
Johnson & 
Johnson  Six ways Johnson & 
Johnson is using AI to 
help advance healthcare  Driving greater precision in measuring disease severity 
and treatment response: J&J is applying AI/ML to data 
sets – from digital images to videos to sound recordings 
–to identify novel biomarkers and clinical endpoints that
can help us develop and delive r the right medicines for
the right patients at the right time – across oncology,
immunology and neuroscience.
Mayo 
Clinic  Tomorrow’s Cure: AI 
Powered Stethoscopes 
Improve Access to Heart 
CareThe AI Powered Stethoscope captures 
electrocardiogram data and heart sounds to lower the 
diagnostic gap in detecting peripartum cardiomyopathy 
and provide a safe noninvasive screening test.   
Mayo Clinic accelerates 
personalized medicine 
through foundation 
models with Microsoft 
Research and Cerebras 
Systems  In a multi -partnership, foundation models (pre -trained AI 
models amendable to a wide array of tasks) are being 
used for a genomic -purpose, which is to personalize 
care such that an AI model can know things to 
specifically look individual -to-individual base d on risk.   
Mount 
Sinai  AI-enhanced algorithm 
improves diagnosis of 
REM sleep behavior 
disorder  Sleep studies have been previously limited by the 
necessity of research -grade 3D cameras, but an 
automated machine learning method can analyze video 
recordings with just a 2D camera.   
Artificial Intelligence May 
Expedite Prognoses in 
Cancer Care  AI can deduce information by image alone, helping to 
profile cancer in ways that highlight high -risk features 
and probability of metastasis.   


11 
Enhancing Clinical Decision -Making and Efficiency  
Company  Link Description  
Amazon  Amazon and Memorial 
Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center leap toward AI -
driven drug discovery  A partnership sees Memorial Sloan running large 
language models through Amazon Bedrock and 
SageMaker to amplify data quality, which will allow 
for better monitoring of cancer status in patients as 
well as shrink the time required for the early stages 
of drug development.   
AI 'frees up time for 
patient care,’ says 
Amazon Pharmacy's Vin 
Gupta  Amazon Pharmacy’s goal is to eliminate menial 
work for doctors and clinicians such that they can 
focus more fully on patient interaction and 
counseling.   
Epic Mayo AI Message 
Responses   In Basket Art (short for Augmented Response 
Technology) automatically drafts text for a potential 
response to the patient’s medical advice request 
MyChart message based on the text of the 
message and information from the patient’s record. 
Initial pilots at Mayo Clinic showed that In Basket 
Art saves nurses around 30 seconds per message 
and drafts more empathetic responses.  
Ambient Listening Helps 
Primary Care Doctors 
Finish Notes Faster   Ambient listening technology documents notes and 
queues up orders to improve the overall patient -
physician experience. Third -party ambient listening 
vendors integrate with Epic so that doctors can 
spend less time on documentation, have fewer 
feelings of bu rnout, and refocus on the vital human 
component of patient -centered care.  
IQVIA   IQVIA AI for Good  Predicting Risk of Stroke: The use of AI for Atrial 
Fibrillation patients decreased stroke incidence by 
22% through algorithms that used real world data to 
identify the patient risk level. Allowing a streamlined 
approach to clinician intervention.  
IQVIA AI for Good  Developing Diabetes and Cardiovascular care 
bundles for countrywide deployment: Developed 14 
AI algorithms across diabetes, CVD, and strokes to 
be used by physicians to identify patients at -risk 
and allowed treatment to occur earlier in the care 
continuum.  Use of these 14 AI algorithms improved 
care management, reduced costs of care, AND 
identification of neuropathy was documented to be 
five times more accurate than standard practice.  


12 
Enhancing Clinical Decision -Making and Efficiency  (continued)  
Johnson & 
Johnson  Six ways Johnson & 
Johnson is using AI to 
help advance 
healthcare  Harnessing AI for electro -anatomical mapping of 
the heart: During catheter ablation procedures 
for atrial fibrillation, it is critical for 
electrophysiologists to “see” inside the heart. 
J&J's CARTO ™ 3 System – the leading 3D heart 
mapping system features AI to reconstruct the 
left atrial anatomy of the heart. By eliminating the 
need for manual contouring, the system 
represents a new approach to anatomy creation, 
improving the efficiency of the proced ure 
workflow.  
Mount Sinai  AI Can Reliably Predict 
Efficacy of Immune 
Checkpoint Inhibitor 
[(ICI)] Therapy  Machine learning model SCORPIO “remains a 
highly accessible model for predicting ICI 
efficacy and can aid clinical decision -making 
when use alongside other assessments.”     
Mount Sinai  Mount Sinai awarded the 
Hearst Health Prize for 
an AI -driven nutrition 
application  AI-driven nutrition application NutriScan AI more 
quickly detect signs of malnutrition in 
hospitalized patients and informs treatment for 
them.   
Implementing a Machine 
Learning (ML) Screening 
Tool for Maln utrition: 
Insights from Qualitative 
Research Applicable to 
Other M L-Based Clinical
Decision Support 
Systems  ML tool Malnutrition Universal Screening Tool 
(MUST), when properly implemented, can serve 
as a key example of effective ML -based clinical 
decision support systems (CDSS), highlighting a 
switch from older CDSS  to the most modern ML 
approach.   
Oracle  Oracle Health Clinical AI 
Agent (CAA)Oracle Health’s AI -powered voice recognition 
technology records key elements of the 
physician -patient encounter to interpret the 
information, accurately inputs a draft note into 
the Oracle Health EHR, and enables the 
physician to quickly review and approve  the 
clinical documentation produced.  
Senior Helpers  Richland business leans 
on AI, tech to keep 
seniors in their own 
homes | Tri -Cities Area 
Journal of Business  flexHome utilizes smart sensors to build pattern 
recognition on a senior patient/client’s activity 
such that AI will alert family or the needed 
authorities if a deviation indicates a senior is 
having a medical emergency like a fall.   
Vizient  Augmedix Awarded 
Vizient Contract for 
Ambient AI 
Documentation 
Solutions  Clients of Vizient will soon be able to access 
Augmedix services for drafting medical notes, 
meant to alleviate menial tasks and emphasize 
patient interaction and counseling.   


13 
Research & Development  
Company  Link Description  
IQVIA  NVIDIA and IQVIA Build 
Domain -Expert Agentic AI 
for Healthcare and Life 
Sciences  NVIDIA AI Foundry and its accompanying 
platform plays a key role in the development of 
IVQIA Healthcare -grade AI that will give rise to 
new treatments quicker in the clinical trials and 
launch phases of drug research.   
Merck  AI optimizes the quest for 
small molecules - 
Merck.com  In the lead optimization phase of drug discovery, 
the use of machine learning accelerates the data 
consensus on things like all possible 
combinations of molecules such that new 
possible drugs are found sooner and pushed 
forward more quickly.   
Staff Efficiency/Efficacy  
Company  Link Description  
Amazon  Revolutionizing Real -World 
Evidence: How Generative 
AI Can Simplify Data 
Exploration  Generative AI allows medical evidence to be 
sourced outside of just clinical trials to provide 
timely, relevant,  and necessary data to clinicians 
and doctors.   
Amazon Pharmacy 
Improved Prescription 
Processing Time by 90% 
with Gen AI  A HIPAA -compliant digital platform uses 
generative AI for data entry and validation which 
speeds the process of approving and assigning 
doctor -approved prescriptions to the pharmacy 
counter.   
Five ways Amazon 
Pharmacy uses AI to make 
getting medications more 
convenient for customers  Alongside improving prescription processing 
time, AI can forecast demand, provide real -time 
insurance estimates, answer questions ahead of 
an agent and conduct batching decisions.   
Envision 
Healthcare  How Envision Healthcare Is 
Incorporating AI into 
Radiology Workflow | 
Healthcare Innovation  By partnering with Aidoc, Envision Healthcare 
models the radiology workflow after the Amazon 
service model where ED physicians may order a 
study through on -site systems that will more 
promptly monitor a patient’s case.   


14 
Staff Efficiency/Efficacy  (continued) 
Company  Link Description  
IQVIA  IQVIA AI for Good  Surfacing hidden risk factors to prioritize 
engagement of social workers: NorthShore – 
Edward -Elmhurst Health used the IQVIA AI 
solution for health NLP that flags patients with 
health factors, allowing ED social workers to 
assess 56% more patients with hea lth needs.   
How AI is shaking up 
compliance in the life 
sciences industry - IQVIA  AI is being used to comb pages and pages of 
law/regulation to then outline how companies 
may navigate compliance.    
Johnson & 
Johnson  Six ways Johnson & 
Johnson is using AI to help 
advance healthcare  Analyzing the operating room for efficiency and 
physician learning: AI automates snippets of 
surgical video to speed up the process of 
surgeons reviewing their work and adjusting 
accordingly.   
Mayo Clinic  Mayo Clinic launches Mayo 
Clinic Digital Pathology to 
modernize pathology, 
speed medical 
breakthroughs  With the help of AI -gnostics, Mayo Clinic data 
and expertise is being combined with machine 
learning to shift pathology away from analogy 
processes to digital ones.   
Surescripts  Touchless Prior 
Authorization | Remove 
manual work & reach 
determinations faster  Clinical determinations regarding prior 
authorization of medications can be automated 
when AI is fed an electronic medical record within 
the purviews of the pharmacy benefit manager.   
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government 
in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.   


