PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-k53h-8aw5
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2310
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I am  strongly against the idea of taking m ost form s of AI generated m aterial any further.
An inherent flaw of AI generated m aterial is that it can not intuit or create anything on its own - it MUST have m aterial fed to it AND be
told what to do with it in order to m ake anything to begin with. And especially without any regulation on it, this will and already has led to
bad actors just taking anything they want (including copywritten m aterial) and using it to train their AI - often without perm ission or even
credit.
With this in m ind, regarding creative m edium s (art, m usic, m ovies, etc.) this m eans that AI will and has generated m aterial directly built off
the works of others, with very little to no m eaningful rem ixing or artistic intent.
Regarding research-related fields, it has also already been proven to be problem atic due to AI's inability to truly intuit, research, or verify
anything it's saying. Depending on the coder's intent, an AI can flat out lie, build info based on incorrect but accessible inform ation, or
stretch the truth in som e way to m ake it sound better for the client, all of which can/will/do cause issues for anyone trying to research a
subject.
While AI can be a powerful tool in certain contexts (such as sim ple language translation, m aking video editing a sm oother process, or
helping certain people audibly speak) it is also a tool that, unchecked, can very easily take advantage of others' work, m isinform  both
intentionally and unintentionally, and m ake it harder for people's voices and works to get out there in a sea of AI generated copycats and
low-quality work. Should AI technology still be pursued despite all of this, I firm ly believe it should be held under scrutiny to m ake sure it
does not further go down the path of sim ply exploiting the hard work of passionate and dedicated artists and researchers.


