PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-kjsg-oabd
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1653
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Sara Carter
General Comment
AI is not paid a salary, so it won't spend its earnings on goods and services. If everyone and their unique work has been replaced by AI,
who will have the m oney to buy what you're selling?
AI should be used to enhance the hum an experience, not elim inate it. Any governm ent plans involving AI should:
1. Protect the IP interests of creators of any form  of original works
2. Offer no protections for transform ative works created using AI generated from  purely copyrighted original works that have not been
used with consent of or com pensation to the original creator. There should also be heavy punishm ents for violations.
3. Offer protections for AI works created from  copyrighted work that has been com pensated for. A system  m ust be in place to track this
and proof of the right to use a com pensated original work should be available upon request.
4. AI should autom ate and enhance work tasks, data analysis, and organization as a job aid, not a job replacem ent.
5. No living person should have their voice or likeness used without consent or com pensation for AI purposes.
6. AI should be used to enhance the physical and logical capabilities of m achinery, while creating an equal num ber of jobs that it will
replace.
And so on and so on. Action plans and regulations m ust wrangle the use of AI for the benefit and betterm ent of society as a whole. When
it com es to the loom ing threat of m isused AI, the governm ent needs to protect the interests of the citizens not only within the United
States, but also in the outside world.


