PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-c4w5-3d6y
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1887
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  OHSU
General Comment
Dear colleagues:
On January 23, 2025, President Trum p signed Executive Order 14179, “Rem oving Barriers to Am erican Leadership in Artificial
Intelligence,” to establish U.S. policy for sustaining and enhancing Am erica's position as a leader in AI through the developm ent of an AI
Action Plan focused on on hum an flourishing, econom ic com petitiveness, and national security. At the invitation of the Office of Science
and Technology Request for Inform ation, we are writing to share policy ideas for the AI Action Plan with a focus on im proving Am erican
com petitiveness, health and healthcare. 
We recom m end three key actions to support responsible AI developm ent and adoption in healthcare: 1) a Foster strong partnerships
between health system s and AI developers to build trust, im prove accuracy, and ensure continued innovation.; 2) Make high-quality
benchm arking datasets—such as those from  Bridge2AI—widely available for m odel training and carefully controlled for realistic testing.;
3) Apply the sam e security, privacy, and transparency standards to both AI developers and the health system s that use their technology.
These steps will help create a robust, trustworthy AI ecosystem  that accelerates innovation, strengthens m arket com petitiveness, and
delivers m eaningful benefits to patients and healthcare providers.
We have attached a file with details.
Sincerely,
David Dorr, Shannon McWeeney, Bridget Barnes, Paul Allen, Robin Cham pieux, and Karen Eden; Oregon Health & Science University
Attachments
AI_RFI_response_OHSU


March 14, 2025
OHSU response to Federal Government AI Request for Information  
Dear colleagues:
On January 23, 2025, President Trump signed Executive Order 14179, 
“Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence,” to establish 
U.S. policy for sustaining and enhancing America's position as a leader in AI 
through the development of an AI Action Plan focused on on human flourishing, 
economic competitiveness, and national security. At the invitation of the Office 
of Science and Technology Request for Information, we are writing to share 
policy ideas for the AI Action Plan with a focus on improving American 
competitiveness, health and healthcare.  
We recommend three key actions to support responsible AI development and 
adoption in healthcare: 1) a Foster strong partnerships between health systems 
and AI developers to build trust, improve accuracy, and ensure continued 
innovation.; 2) Make high-quality benchmarking datasets—such as those from 
Bridge2AI—widely available for model training and carefully controlled for 
realistic testing.; 3) Apply the same security, privacy, and transparency 
standards to both AI developers and the health systems that use their 
technology. These steps will help create a robust, trustworthy AI ecosystem that 
accelerates innovation, strengthens market competitiveness, and delivers 
meaningful benefits to patients and healthcare providers.  
1.Model development
Models need realistic, representative data to be effective Health data is 
constrained by privacy needs, limiting its accessibility for innovation. To 
address this, the U.S. should invest in more open, AI ready datasets 
available to US citizens, fueling advancements while maintaining strong 
privacy protections. The Bridge2AI program is an excellent example of 
the generation of these datasets and is ready to generate more effective 
models. Additionally, strengthening partnerships between health systems 
and AI developers will help the U.S. maintain its competitive edge. These 
collaborations ensure that models are trained on substantial, high-quality 
data and receive the necessary support for safe and effective 
development. Given the complexity and variability of health data, 
continuous fine-tuning is essential. To promote responsible adoption, 
mechanisms for assessing model safety should be in place, enabling 
health systems to confidently integrate AI innovations.  
2.Application and use
The rapid advancement of AI models has already led to 
significantinvestment, over $30b in the health sector alone. However, as 
with model development effectively using these models to drive 
efficiency and improved health outcomes requires partnerships between 
model developers and health systems.The ARPA-H initiative known as 
PRECISE-AI intends to accelerate this innovation by addressing issues 
of trust, uncertainty and model performance in real-world settings. 
Assuring models are fair, accurate, valid, effective, and safe is necessary 
to drive uptake and use of AI and ensure a return on investment. 
Investing in approaches that drive this uptake is crucial to achieve the 
value from AI, including a substantial transformation of health care to be 
Center for AI-enabled 
Learning Health Science 
(CAILHS)
Division of Informatics, 
Clinical Epidemiology and 
Translational Data Science
Mail code BICC
3181 SW Sam Jackson Park Rd
Portland, OR 97239-3098
tel 
fax 
David A. Dorr, MD, MS
Professor, CAILHS co-director
And Chief Research Information 
Officer
Jeff Gold, MD
Professor, CAILHS co-director
And Associate Chief Health 
Information Office


more person-centered and efficient.  A fundamental issue for AI models is reliability and accuracy: 
ongoing use requires trust, and unknown errors raise significant liability concerns for the companies. 
Partnering with health systems, especially those with an academic component, will improve both trust 
and reduce liability. Encouraging these investments through government programs and regulations will 
ensure we retain a competitive advantage. Patient safety is a crucial consideration: models must be 
tested carefully in the real world to ensure ongoing safety. Expectations for ongoing evaluation and 
surveillance should be set.  
3.Explainability and assurance of AI model outputs
For AI models to be widely adopted and deliver value, they must be explainable and trustworthy. 
Without confidence in their outputs, both financial investments and America’s competitive advantage in 
AI risk being lost. Explainability is key not only for trust but also for maximizing the return on investment 
in AI development and implementation. As mentioned earlier, PRECISE-AI intends to enhance this trust 
by supporting efforts to assure model outputs through benchmarking and increase explainability and 
assessment of uncertainty through additional algorithms intended to both explain and quantify potential 
errors in the models. Without sustained investment in these efforts, the U.S risks falling behind in AI 
innovation and adoption  
4.Cybersecurity
The impact of cybersecurity cannot be understated: efficient and effective ways to protect the privacy 
and security of patient data have to be implemented widely. However, current security requirements 
ask the impossible of health systems: to both completely protect data from any future breach and make 
the data available to models. Instead, trusted networks and pipelines for data to flow to AI/ML 
algorithms are required. To achieve this goal, a pragmatic approach to security is required. 
Foundational elements related to AI security should be applied evenly across the industry; currently, 
there are substantial differences in security requirements between HIPAA entities and non-HIPAA 
entities, such as AI companies. In addition, the increasing FEDRAMP requirements for security 
standards are a substantial burden and cost when they are applied to health systems; a pragmatic 
approach to the application of standards that doesn’t increase cost and unnecessary burden would be 
helpful.  
5.Data privacy and security throughout the lifecycle of AI system development and deployment (to
include security against AI model attacks).
Collaborative agreements with innovative companies and health systems will inevitably require cloud-
based exchange of information and model results. Specifically, standard language to address the risks 
and benefits of this exchange will improve the ability of institutions to test and implement new 
innovations for the benefit of all. Organizations that uniformly explain the risks and benefits to people 
seeking care should receive legal protection against risks, especially when they are incurred by the 
company that is creating or implementing models. This will ensure the ongoing development and 
implementation of models while balancing risks and to whom they accrue.  
6.Regulation and governance
To have efficient and effective governance, regulations must set boundaries. A primary example is 
asking AI innovators to be transparent in how their model was built and tested, including known errors. 
Guidelines for governance should be set: in this way, organizations can work together to understand 
the foundation for governance. In addition, an industry can develop to make governance more cost-
effective, especially for small hospitals and other care settings. Each organization and locality should 
define their own governance approach based on these guidelines. An effective governance model 
identifies the risks, benefits, implementation plan, and evaluation needed for local implementation. 
Support and guidance should be provided to enable these organizations to develop their own 
governance for the implementation, with an open and transparent exchange of best practices. Patients 
seeking care at health institutions should be informed about AI use and allowed to make their own 
decisions about the potential benefits and risks.  
7.Technical and safety standards
Standards for AI development, testing, and implementation should be established. HTI-1 and HTI-2 
represent a fair foundation for describing the use of decision support interventions, including AI. These 
modest standards – a ‘model card’ approach to describing the algorithms and how they are used will 
allow all people to evaluate how this model may be valuable to them.  
8.Research and development


Industry-driven AI development has produced groundbreaking tools, but successfully integrating them 
into healthcare requires alignment between informatics, implementation science, and incentives. 
Encouraging an AI-enabled learning health system approach will accelerate research and development 
while ensuring the U.S. maintains its competitive advantage.  Strong partnerships between AI 
developers and health systems are essential for fine-tuning models and maintaining quality over time. 
Without ongoing collaboration, AI models risk degradation as data shifts and algorithms evolve.  
9.Education and workforce
AI tools appear to work exceptionally well but can contain significant errors. To ensure their safe and 
effective use, healthcare professionals must develop strong critical thinking skills to recognize and 
mitigate these errors.  As AI becomes more integrated into healthcare, problem-solving and analytical 
reasoning will be even more essential.  
Health education should evolve to reinforce these skills, ensuring that assessments and training 
emphasize critical thinking in the context of AI decision-making. By doing so, we can better prepare 
future healthcare professionals to navigate AI-driven tools with confidence and sound judgment.  
10.Innovation and competition
Fundamentally, retaining the innovative edge in America requires ongoing, continued support and 
evaluation. Reducing investment in research will limit the impact of AI models in health, as trust will 
continue to be eroded and any errors will put industry at risk from lawsuits. To accelerate innovation, 
direct support must be provided to cross-sector teams that implement robust and rigorous evaluations 
of the tools and monitor trust.  
If there are additional questions, we are available at the submitting address.  
Robin Champieux, MLIS  
University Librarian  
Associate Professor  
Bridget Barnes, MBA, Ph.D.  
Senior Vice President & Chief Information Officer  
Karen Eden, PhD  
Professor 
Shannon McWeeney, PhD  
Professor and OHSU Knight Cancer Institute Chief Data Officer 


David A. Dorr, MD, MS
Professor of Informatics, Clinical Epidemiology, and Translational Data Science
Professor of General Internal Medicine/Geriatrics
Chief Research Information Officer
Paul Allen  
Vice President & Chief Data Officer  


