PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0ksf-isvo
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6724
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Eric Dennis  Email: 
General Comment
I am  strongly opposed to this AI action plan. It is in effect giving power to tech com panies, and AI com panies in particular, to train their
m odels and technology for free, on the works of m illions of hardworking creatives and on even the online activity of ordinary people. They
do this with zero com pensation to the people whose works they are using, and profit m assively off it. Allowing AI com panies to run
roughshod over the work of actual hum an creatives is desecration of our entire cultural works, as a species let alone the cultural legacy of
our nation.
What's m ore, AI despite becom ing the big buzzword of the last few years is in fact m ostly driven by developm ents in Large Language
Models (LLMs) which are not intelligent, nor sentient. This fact, and the nature of how they only can produce outputs based on training
data, and often do so with low accuracy (often refereed to as the AI "hallucinating"), m akes them  prone to inaccuracy and bias, and acting
as if we can replace m illions of jobs, in the governm ent OR private sector with this seam lessly is quite frankly a threat to our econom ic
stability and national security. 
AI and m achine learning system s will indeed play large roles in science and technology in the future I expect. But what is being pursued by
tech com panies and pushed as necessary such as replacing thousands of people with AI and inserting LLM based technologies where
they are not suited is a dead end. Putting all our eggs as a country in the AI bubble basket just because it is shiny and new would be
nothing m ore than a handout to tech com panies at the expense of average Am ericans, and dam age our econom y and standing in the world
all because of m isguided fear that others will "beat" us in an "AI race" that noone asked for in the first place. Useful applications of
m achine learning will show them selves without us needing to play into technology hype that is dam aging to actual hum ans and their careers
and futures.


