PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-w88x-m cci
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3807
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
The "unnecessarily burdensom e requirem ents" described in this docum ent are the very guardrails that prevent ram pant profiteering off of
our culture and individuality. While it would be rem iss to say that there is no practical application for AI, it is necessary to m aintain and
further im plem ent m easures to ensure that the very resources being harvested to develop the technology aren't destroyed in the process.
Especially in the perspective of generative AI, there are dangers present that are being passed off as parody and/or original works while
the people suffer. Generative AI voices are already being used in scam s today to the point in which the elderly are starting to need
passphrases with their loved ones for phone calls. Internationally, people are being tricked into consum ing stolen and regurgitated works.
The talent and individuality of people are being put into question because AI has harvested and propagated im itations of what is essentially
their identity throughout the world.
Today we laugh at the com ical and grotesque fake im ages of political figures and celebrities. Scoff at the blatantly AI voice and anim ation
of people singing to culturally adored songs. Stare in disbelief at the answer to a question that we know is 100% wrong. Tom orrow this
will be forged scandals of political figures and celebrities. Fabricated evidence released to the m asses causing weeks of dam age before
being confirm ed false. Revised history and knowledge that future generations will trust because it has always been present in their lives.
The RFI states "...with the right governm ent policies, the United States can solidify its position as the leader in AI and secure a brighter
future for all Am ericans." The knowledge, culture, and individuality of Am ericans, not to m ention that of the rest of the world, is the very
fuel that turns the gears of this m achine. Do not burn the present to pave the way for a future on a ball of cinders. Especially at this tim e,
the only ones benefiting from  the propagation of AI are those who have the m oney and network to m arket these technologies while the
ones who create the knowledge fed to it disappear from  the world. If you cannot stop it from  hurting people it claim s to benefit please at
the very least protect these "unnecessarily burdensom e requirem ents."


