PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0063-4n61
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6540
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  LL-Squared LLC
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
AI Action Plan_LL-Squared LLC


Page 1 of 2 March 15, 2025 
Laura Longwell 
President, LL-Squared LLC  
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
LL-Squared LLC is an American small business publisher that has been devastated by the 
actions of multinational corporations like Google and is concerned that this AI Action Plan will 
enable the further harm to hundreds of thousands of American small businesse s.
The owners of LL-Squared LLC and its employess urge the National Science Foundation 
and the White House to protect American interests and not erode U.S. copyright protection 
for the benefit of multinational corporations with their foreign founders and executives – 
individuals who present a national security risk to this great country . 
Specific comments to the proposal: 
1.Protect Copyrights  for Americans
Since George Washington enacted the first copyright law in the United States of America,
our protections for created works have been the model for all countries around the world.
Now is not the time to change that.
Artificial Intelligence (in general) and Large Language Models/LLMs (specifically) are only 
as good as the datasets that they are trained on. That simple fact forms the basis of the 
request from Google and OpenAI to eliminate copyright protections in the U nited States. 
HOWEVER, there is a foreseeable consequence.  
By eliminating copyright protections for creators, you destroy the integrity of the datasets 
as independent publishers remove their work and stop creating new articles. It is a short -
sighted cash grab by foreign executives at the expense of hard -working Americans.  
2.There Should Be No Expansion of Fair Use Doctrine
The pretext for these changes is the “fair use doctrine.” However, this forum, the
Administration’s AI Action Plan, is not the proper venue to litigate changes to the Fair Use
Doctrine. The courts are.
Instead, foreign technology companies want to short -cut the process of cutting out 
American oversight for their foreign activities and eroding American’s rights in the process.  


Page 2 of 2 3. The Companies Lobbying for Weakened Copyrights Represent a National Security 
Risk  
The technology companies lobbying for weakened copyrights themselves represent a 
national security risk. While nominally headquartered in the United States, these 
companies are essentially foreign entities: founded by foreign ers, lead by foreign 
executives  and foreign nationals , and using a vast array of employees in countries that are 
not aligned to America’s interests.  They are “American” in only that the trade on the U.S. 
stock exchange s, but do not represent the national interests of the United States o f 
America.  
 
The AI development teams for these companies are based in China, India, Russia, 
Egypt, Ukraine, and other countries that are not our allies.  
 
These companies are requesting the Administration grant broad exemptions to U.S. laws 
and place that trust in the hands of these foreign nationals who have no allegiance to the 
American people.  
 
4. Control and Censorship are the  Likely Outcomes  
Since its creation, the Internet has been a powerful tool for the communication of ideas 
and a repository or “global library.” However, by controlling both what information gets 
absorbed into LLMs and the informational output from LLMs, these tech companies can 
assert a total monopolistic control of what information gets consumed. Complete control 
of people through the information that they consume.  
 
This is both information control and censorship. If we have learned nothing over the last 
decade, censorship of information is not in the ultimate interests of the American people or 
our government.  
 
*** 
 
In conclusion, we request the National Science Foundation and the White House to create 
an AI Action Plan that actually protects America’s national security interests by not 
enabling these foreign nationals to disenfranchise American authors and small businesses.  
 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment.  
 
About LL -Squared LLC:  
LL-Squared LLC is a small business engaging in the publication of travel and entertainment 
information across multiple websites. Travel Addicts , founded in 2008, is one of the oldest 
independent travel blogs on the Internet providing real, unbiased information for travelers. 
Launched in 2020, Guide to Philly , provides local ideas and information about Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania.  
 


