PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3exz-a1x9
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9100
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
What this proposal is basically am ounting to is allowing AI com panies like Google and OpenAI (owned by Microsoft) to violate fair use
and copyright law without repercussion. It is essentially allowing these com panies to becom e legal m onopolies and utterly stifle innovation
and creativity in not just the field of AI but in all creative and technological industries.
The AI m odels operated by these com panies m ust rely on a constant supply of new training data, because they cannot create anything
new without decaying. Without any sort of com pensation, artists, creatives and even those in the entertainm ent industry will have less
incentive to create anything new. And it is not just artists at work. Any sort of technical writing, teaching, legal docum ent creation and
virtually any profession not directly involving physical labor would be put at risk.
Not to m ention, if anything we create is autom atically used for training data without com pensation, the Am erican people is essentially
working for these com panies for free. That does not sound like a dem ocratic, capitalist society. This wouldn't be so bad if these
com panies were going out of their way to faithfully provide a usable service. However, this is not the case.
As non-governm ent entities, these com panies have no financial incentive in providing actually quality product back to Am ericans. For
exam ple, Google AI's m odel actively suppresses search results, prioritizing paid advertisem ents over accurate inform ation. On top of that,
Google's AI is designed to give you the answer it thinks you need without you having to visit other websites, decreasing overall search
traffic elsewhere. With the Google search engine already controlling a large portion of the Internet, the ability to find reliable inform ation is
com prom ised.
Furtherm ore, Google in the past has been shown to be politically biased. For exam ple, there was an incident when their m odel was asked
to generate im ages of Germ an soldiers from  World War II. It produced im ages of individuals with skin colors that were not accurate to
the tim e period, which im plies they support aggressive revisionist history and that they are willing to go out of their way to deny access to
accurate historical docum ents.
This will undoubtedly com prom ise free speech and freedom  of expression over the Internet as there would be nothing stopping Google
from  suppressing the discoverability of any website that does not politically align with their beliefs. Google and Microsoft both openly
em brace DEI, going against President Trum p's m andate to cease discrim inatory hiring practices. Giving these com panies even m ore
power would effectively allow them  to continue to underm ine not just the wishes of the Am erican people but also that of the governm ent.
And it doesn't end there. In Microsoft's case, their Recall AI actively takes screenshots of a user's com puter and m akes no attem pt at
hiding sensitive inform ation such as passwords and social security num bers. In the event of a data breach, it will only facilitate crim inal acts
such as identity theft. Not to m ention, the blatant violations of privacy. Certainly, you would not want som ething like this running on a
governm ent com puter with classified inform ation. Twenty years ago, we would have called with m alware.
If the United States wants to properly take its place as a leader in the AI industry, it needs to do so ethically. Google and Microsoft are
not above the law, and it will be a m istake to allow them  to violate copyright law without consequence. It is not worth the price of
freedom  nor the stability of a free m arket econom y.


