PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-yh67-5oha
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5308
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Nicholas Reel 
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Thank you for your tim e
Attachments
re_ai_action_plan


From: 
Nicholas Reel, 
Software Developer 
Re: National Science Foundation's Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (Al) Action Plan 
I am an everyday American who has an appreciation for the arts. In all of its many forms. 
The Al systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google 
threaten to destroy thousands of American small businesses with their recent demand to 
create special carve outs in copyright law. 
Al systems can only be produced by first training on work made by people. Including the work of 
hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators was taken and fed into these Al 
systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest their work, reassemble it, and 
then sell it back to our clients - directly competing with us and cutting us out of the marketplace. 
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to make this practice of stealing American creators' copyrighted work legal precedent. 
They are suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow 
suddenly "fair use". 
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet - regardless of who owns it - 
should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to 
rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation. 
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to 
protect the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen 
by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new 
innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it 
immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will 
we possibly make a living doing these things? 
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and 
everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency. 
This administration's Al Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition: 




