PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-x35h-u3r1
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4194
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Amanda Wel ls 
General Comment
Owners and executives of generative AI com panies have been quoted on record as saying that if they cannot steal copyrighted m aterials
for their AI m odels to be "trained" on, if they m ust pay royalties to rights holders and ask consent from  creators before raiding entire
entertainm ent com panies of their intellectual property, their business cannot function. If a business cannot function unless it breaks the law,
that business does not deserve to exist. In ANY OTHER industry, theft of copyrighted m aterials is a crim e, as real a dam age to the rights
holder(s) as if you had broken into their hom e and stolen cash from  a safe. No form  of "artificial intelligence" should be exem pt from  the
law. Copyright MUST be legally honored, across ALL businesses, or copyright itself no longer exists, and ALL people are free to use
copyrighted m aterial for any purpose they please, without a cent of royalties required. In corporate Am erican's desperate bid to elim inate
creative em ployees by replacing them  with generative AI (that STILL requires hum an correction to be at all usable in a com m ercial
capacity,) they're going to cut off their own arm s and legs, in the form  of legally rendering their own intellectual properties into public
properties, as one will only need to claim  "I m ade this with AI" to then have full legal rights to use anything from  the McDonald's logo on a
series of condom  wrappers, to the blueprints of Starlink satellites on toilet paper, and no legitim ate court will be able to stop nor punish
any of it, because the chase for AI suprem acy pipe dream  will have destroyed all legal basis for com plaint of dam ages by its owners' own
hands. The US governm ent bellyaches about how Chinese businesses steal intellectual properties to sell bootleg and counterfeit products
all over the world, then cham pions "artificial intelligence" com panies for the exact sam e business m odel, sim ply because the elim ination of
an entire industry of hum an em ployees boosts profit m argins in a business field where EVERY generative AI venture has been bleeding
out BILLIONS of dollars with no sight of a profit ever being reached. Generative AI, as a business, has been m adness from  the start;
exem pting AI from  copyright laws will be akin to giving a m adm an a knife in each hand and setting him  loose on Wall Street. There will be
only financial suffering, and all for a product no one in the public sphere wants.


