PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-n3ga-liw9
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2516
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Bennie Nelson  
General Comment
Many search engines and social m edia providers are notorious for em ploying algorithm s that block or m ask "undesirable" viewpoints and
data, while favoring or prioritizing others. In addition, the Internet has been greatly polluted with fake news, counterfeit histories of
Am erica and Am ericans, and so forth. To nam e but a few, consider the enorm ous num ber of reports regarding: the Russian Collusion
Hoax; the letter from  51 senior intelligence officials; the Charlottesville Hoax; the BLM/Antifa riots being described as "m ostly peaceful"
while cities burned; Hunter Biden's laptop being called a hoax; and the m any revisionist histories of the Founding Fathers and the
Am erican Revolution. In short, data corruption and alternate histories are prevalent on the Internet, in school curricula, in books, shows,
m ovies, and so on.
Com bining such corrupted data with biased algorithm s provides powerful weaponry for those who want to underm ine Am erica. In other
words, an AI developed for global dom inance can be hijacked and weaponized for use against Am erica and Am ericans. To prevent this,
carefully constructed and im plem ented governance and accountability are required for both the code base and the data. History provides
an exam ple in the project com m issioned by King Jam es I of England to translate the biblical texts from  the original languages into English.
To sum m arize, the translators were divided into com panies to work on specific portions of text. Each m em ber of a com pany would
produce their own version, and the com pany would review and consolidate these into one rendering of the text. This docum ent was then
subm itted to the other com panies for review and revision. The fact that over 400 years later the King Jam es Version is still widely read
and used by m any m illions of people is a testam ent to the success of that project and its m ethodology.
In developing the proposed AI, it is proposed that integrity reviews be built-in to the developm ent process so that new code and code
revisions are reviewed by different team s from  the developers. For exam ple:
- Developers are divided into team s.
- Each team  is assigned code to develop.
- Each m em ber of a specific team  writes code in parallel to the sam e specifications.
- The program s are tested in parallel and the results are validated against each other.
- The program  code and results are subm itted to the other team s for integrity review.
A sim ilar process should be em ployed for building and m aintaining the data store that will be used by the AI. There should also be a
feedback loop allowing the Am erican Public to report faulty or suspect data and/or results.
Finally, the governance structure of the entire project should also have checks and balances so that the authority over the AI cannot be
usurped in order to weaponize AI against Am erica and the Am erican people. Finally, the governance structure should not be overly
centralized, since a highly centralized structure is m ost likely to abused.


