PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3sdg-aei9
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9582
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Tracy Butler 
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Response - AI Action Plan


March 15, 2025 
From: 
Tracy Butler 
Comics Author/Animation Art Director 
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
I am an American producing comics and animation, and a contractor and director of numerous 
other American artists who make a living doing similar work. I have worked extremely hard for 
years to develop the skills and knowledge to build my business, and to earn the opportunity to 
do what I’m doing. 
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) threaten to destroy 
thousands of American creative ventures like mine with their demands to upturn or 
bypass copyright law and to simply steal all of our hard work for their datasets. 
The purpose of American copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen 
by Big Tech giant s, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new 
innovative piece of computer code, a new illustration, a new webcomic, a new visual design, or 
a new piece of music only to have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother 
creating it in the first place? How will we possibly make a living doing these things?  
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and 
everyday American s without permission, compensation, or transparency. 
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition: 
●First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent, so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
●Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that
the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense
economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original
creators, not just Big Tech.


● Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, 
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what 
content is AI generated. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 


