PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-rej0-4ocg
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2943
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Sarah Esterman  
General Comment
As both an artist and a m edical professional, I believe it is critical that the developm ent of generative AI and LLM learning be heavily
scrutinized and regulated before it is given any further priority. The unrestricted use of copyrighted m aterial for training of these m odels
shows a flagrant disregard for existing copyright law, and should not have been allowed to progress as far as it already has. The financial
losses to both individuals and businesses will only continue to com pound if this technology is allowed to proceed on its current trajectory,
and risks the prospect of losing intellectual properties entirely. 
In return for these significant detrim ents, there are no benefits. The well docum ented environm ental costs, degradation of artistic works,
hallucination of com pletely incorrect inform ation, and general loss of integrity caused by reliance on generative AI m odels serves no one,
and certainly does not serve the citizens of the United States. 
I am  not against artificial intelligence. I work in a part of the m edical field that m akes heavy use of artificial intelligence; it m akes m y life
easier, and is critical to advances in m any of our diagnostic services, early detection, and accessibility of m edical testing. I am  however
against LLMs use as it is currently progressing. It regularly provides m edical inform ation which is not only utterly incorrect, but with the
way m any Am ericans now cite sources like OpenAI as a factual authority, can quite literally life-threatening. 
This technology urgently needs m ore regulation, not less.


