PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-uhos-von1
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3401
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
While generative AI's base to detect what im ages are has been useful in science, it doesn't need to ability to recreate im ages, video,
writing, coding, speech, or m usic.
The first problem  is copy write exists to protect creatives and their work. Taking their work to create a copy is plagiarism . Even though
these are not item s that cannot be copy right-able, it still takes m oney from  creatives by offering a cheap im itation of their work for less
m oney and effort. This would cause m ore econom ic problem s for artist of all econom ic walks of life.
This also doesn't stop people from  generating im ages, video, writing, coding, speech, or m usic and claim ing that whatever they m ade isn't
m ade by AI.
The second problem  is there is already no consent to the im ages being taken. Actual protects are lim ited and there have already been
m any lawsuits over generative AI's legality for the lack of protections. This technology is decisive, and by endorsing it, the USA
Governm ent is inviting lawsuits that will take up tim e and m oney.
Lastly, with generative AI m odels like Deep Seek, that are free, the bubble for generative AI has burst. Trying to revive it by handing it
m aterials the USA has protected to the letter of the law up until now is a m istake. Com panies are just tricking the governm ent for a hand
out that will go up in sm oke and dissapear with these com panies that cannot stay afloat. By disregarding the law to allow this failing
business venture to survive for a little longer, the USA will underm ined its own legal authority. With how the USA's judicial branch in the
current state it's in, is it a good idea to keep bending it further? This branch of the governm ent is im portant, and if it should break, the USA
governm ent will lose all authority it has over its citizens and its standing with other sim ilar nations.
In short, this is a bad idea that ignores the law and will only end in judicial failure and lawsuits by som e of the biggest com panies within the
USA. Don't.


