PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-wkym -kk5v
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3942
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
I am  a physical m edia artist who shares photos of their work online and now see people claim ing such work is AI generated or asking for
the im possible based on AI im agery. While this m ay seem  inconsequential to those outside of this line of work, it has im pacted
photographers, artists, sewists, theater, and m ore through the inability to share their work without fear of it being stolen, m isrepresented,
or denied.
I am  also a graduate of agricultural studies. Even now I am  seeing m ishandling in the care of crops and livestock due to m isinform ation
spread by AI.
I cannot search for inform ation without AI sum m aries that are m ore often than not incorrect and dangerous. AI gives m isleading or
incorrect inform ation that can lead to safety and health concerns. I have read m ultiple AI sum m aries claim ing that vapors from  certain glues
or resins are safe to breathe when they are known causes of cancer and respiratory diseases.
AI creates m isinform ation that is not being controlled. AI spreads false inform ation to vulnerable people who do not understand the
technology. It can be used to create deep fakes and scam s through both im ages and written words. It can harm  people of all ages by
creating nonconsensual and false pornographic im agery, including m inors, who are not being protected by the people who claim  to
cham pion them . The AI that these people want is not the sam e AI that detects cancer and should not be protected or allowed free reign
over hum an creativity or rights.


