PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-9bru-ely6
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1825
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
The AI industry in the United States has shown blatant disregard for copyright and intellectual property law, stressed grids their hastily
assem bled data centers cause on com m unities, or the consequences of their actions on any num ber of industries. They will ask for a
perm ission to harvest the work of every professional in the United States without com pensation or perm ission, force their data harvesting
software into every tool we use across every industry they can with no regard for the law or dam age they deal to real people and their
livlihoods. We know this because they're already doing it.
Any support or neural nets and sim ilar technologies m ust com e with assurances that these com panies will not be allowed to run roughshod
over our creative and technical industries. Am erican culture is one of our m ost powerful exports, and AI com panies will be all too happy
to decim ate it for short term  gain.
It should be said that such protections are in the best long-term  interest of the AI industry itself. The current "m ove fast, break things"
m odel cannot sustain an industry for long, and being forced to solve these issues with data harvesting and IP theft will shape the
technology in a way that it can continue to grow alongside our strong cultural industries, rather than burning out as it already begun to do
as AI com panies resort to m ore and m ore desperate attem pts to bolster their data sets.
I m ake these com m ents both as an artist and a professional software developer. I know the White House is likely to go ahead with som e
AI developm ent plan regardless of com m ents, so I im plore NSF to do so with care and consideration of the troublesom e behavior
already exhibited by AI com panies.


