PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2wkz-9j35
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8657
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Cody Blakeman  
General Comment
I question Mr. President's order on a num ber of fronts.
"Hum an flourishing" is so broad as to be m eaningless, and if AI gets within 50 feet of the arts, then skilled actors and craftspeople will lose
jobs to AI sim ply because the generated result is cheaper, regardless of relative quality. We are seeing this play out in the current SAG-
AFTRA video gam e strike. Having the governm ent push forward AI-generated art/m usic/voice will only accelerate and em bolden those
who would dim inish or destroy the arts, and reward the best-m arketed slop as opposed to hum an intent, hum an m essaging, and hum an
connection.
"Econom ic com petitiveness" feels equally hollow, as AI has yet to prove itself sufficient in m any of the fields it has been pushed for, and if
AI were ANY SORT of useful technology, the billions of dollars thrown at the foot of its altar would have borne som e sort of fruit in the
past two years. Instead, despite having the resources and blessing of m any of the world's m ost influential and powerful people, has yet to
do m uch of anything they advertise it for. If we were to throw half a trillion dollars at m icrochip production, or farm ing, or cancer research,
or efficient autom obiles, how m uch progress would we have m ade? And are we able to visualize tangible results from  those actions? We
don't even know what AI is useful for, but the tech bros who stand to profit from  it want to put it in everything, and it would be wrong to
sit idle and not question their m otives.
"National security" is also hilarious, as we already have som e of the world's m ost sophisticated surveillance technology. AI is extrem ely
unreliable at m ultiplying 10 by 10, and now they want to to solve crim es before they happen? Forget the m ovie Minority Report, I'm  sure
it's already com e up, but consider when an AI hallucinates a problem  and wastes valuable national resources on investigating things that
never happened and were never close to happening. If we're talking life-or-death national security, I want tech that's as tested and reliable
as NASA. The stakes are just as high.


