PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0oof-jdi2
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6782
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I'm  an artist, program m er, and writer.
AI, as it is currently, can not function without piracy of legitim ate work. The courts would rule against m y favor if I were to attem pt the
sam e thing in m y own work. So it isn't even a stretch to call AI training what it is. Stealing.
That it's not illegal is absolutely stupid, and in the com m unities I participate in we actively discourage and ban any practitioners of AI on
the spot.
Seeing anything AI generated typically pisses m e off, and m akes m e not want to buy whatever it is attached to. This includes signs in
businesses, gam es, and general artistic works.
It's easy to spot even by people who don't have the training I do. And its m ere presence m akes everything in m y fields m ore expensive
from  a business standpoint. We're getting less work. So we m ust charge m ore to m ake ends m eet. And when we do get work, it's always
a rush job: We're typically fixing the m ess AI created.
Businesses that hire AI artists, quickly learn that they m ust pay for a project a second tim e by a professional to get it right. And since they
have deadlines passed along to us, we all end up with a inferior product, and it is so m uch m ore expensive.
Recognize these AI Techies for what they are. Scam m ers. Thieves. Grifters of society trying to work as little as possible for as m uch as
possible.
They don't have any real solutions. They only have a cost. And that cost is, while difficult to track, long lasting.
We gotta stop thinking about "This Quarter" m axim izing profits and burning the good will of clients. We need to build a lasting reliance on
everyone's efforts together so we all end up doing well enough to keep eating and put away for retirem ent.


