PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-v32u-le8l
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1741
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  LILT
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
US AI Action Plan - LILT RFI Response March 2025


15 March 2025 
LIL T Response to AI Action Plan RFI 
Company: Lilt, Inc. 
Spence Green 
LIL T - Co-founder/CEO Phil Stiefel 
Lilt - Director DoD, APAC, FedCiv 
This document is approved f or public dissemination.  The document contains no business-proprietary 
or confidential information.  Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
Pathway to US Leadership in Foreign Language AI
Cross-border communications is a gro wing $30B industry that is key to US economic competitiveness 
and national security. 
●In the private sector, foreign language communication enables US companies to reach
overseas customers and suppliers. Example use cases:
○Cross-border product / service distribution: US companies spend billions of dollars
per year translating their websites, user manuals, marketing materials, and software
user interfaces into foreign languages.○Cross-border compliance and supply chain management: US companies spend
billions managing suppliers and regulators. AI will make it easier and more cost
eﬀective for US companies to source components and sell products overseas,
stimulating the national economy and reducing inflation.
●In the public sector, foreign language AI is the answer to the persistent foreign language
expertise shortage in the federal enterprise, and to reduce billions of dollars of wasteful
expenditure on contractor staﬀing agencies. The US Department of Defense (DOD),
Intelligence Community (IC), and law enforcement agencies face “persistent challenges in
developing, utilizing, and retaining suﬀicient language talent at the right level and expertise
across the Total Force” according to a 2023 OSD report [1]. Shockingly, a 2022 GAO study cited
a similar gap, meaning that in 20 years the federal enterprise has made no progress solving
language skill gaps. In contrast, China has tens of millions of English speakers who can fill
strategic, open-source, and oﬀensive information warfare roles.  90% of intelligence
collected by the IC is in a foreign language; Chinese and Russian are often the first level
of encryption. Foreign language AI allows the US IC to observe, monitor, and target
adversaries, and communicate with US Allies who do not use English as a first language.
1 
This document is approved for public dissemination.  The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential information.  Document contents 
may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.


Specifically, foreign language AI is a critical component of the southern border mission, 
Operation Southern Guardian, and Operation Desert Guardian. 
○Thousands of human analysts and linguists conduct these missions working with
minimal AI technology assistance.○This human-intensive approach results in hundreds of millions of dollars of
unnecessary spending on contract staﬀing agencies each year.
○It also creates a backlog of intelligence that never gets processed and prevents critical
intelligence from reaching US military leaders in time to be used.○Despite the critical importance of foreign language skills to the Department of
Defenseʼs missions, the U.S. Army, U.S. Air Force, and U.S. Navy all face an acute
foreign language personnel shortage stemming from three primary factors:
■The training pipeline for DoD linguists costs the government more than
$350,000 per trainee.■More than half of language training recruits fail to pass the academically
diﬀicult curriculum.
■Those that do pass require a minimum of 18 months to achieve basic language
proficiency.■Many linguists leave the services following their minimum service time.
●Further, across civilian federal agencies, many agencies utilize bilingual employees to
translate foreign language content.  Examples include:○FBI, DEA, and law enforcement agencies routinely translate foreign material in support
of their investigations.○U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services utilizes bilingual employees for translations,
rather than professionally trained translators.○Transportation Security Administration signage and materials are translated, yet the
agency does not employ linguists.
Foreign language AI is being transformed due to advancements in AI, but foreign-owned companies 
including DeepL (Germany) and iFLYTEK (China) are rapidly securing global market share and making 
moves to dominate this space.  In 2019, iFLYTEK, whose foreign language AI is used by the 
Chinese military and intelligence apparatus, was added to the Commerce department Entity 
List. [3]  The United States can harness the power of U.S. business and innovation, counter foreign advances 
in foreign language AI, and accelerate DoD/IC missions by taking concrete steps to build the next 
generation of foreign language AI companies.   
The United States should accordingly: 
1.Allocate additional directed funding to the DoD for investment in American companies
building foreign language AI.2.Establish a DoD task force focused on emerging foreign language AI technologies.
3.Develop a strategy for accelerating the growth of American foreign language AI companies
with a focus on non-traditional vendors.4.Direct additional funding to agile acquisition organizations within DOD such as DoD that can
provide foreign language AI tools to service components with foreign language investigation
missions.5.Set up a liaison o ﬀice within DoD DIU to advise allies/partners on successful American AI
innovations that have been adopted/fielded by the US DoD.
2 
This document is approved for public dissemination.  The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential information.  Document contents 
may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.


6.Direct DoD to conduct a review of foreign language AI processes that are ripe for automation.
7.Recognize ATOs between services, mission centers, and agencies, so that the government can
procure and deploy these tools e ﬀiciently and rapidly.
REFERENCES 
[1] US DOD. 3 Aug 2023. Roadmap for Cultivating and Managing Skilled Language, Regional Expertise,
and Cultural Talent.
[2] GAO. January 2002. Human Capital Approach Needed to Correct Sta ﬀing and Proficiency
Shortfalls.
[3] Commerce Department. March 2025. Entity List.
3 
This document is approved for public dissemination.  The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential information.  Document contents 
may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.


