PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-e1d9-xzdz
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1535
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
What Ai big thech com panies and CEOs want is power, m oney and dom inance over hum anity and peolple. They don't care hum anity,
they don't care to hurt dam age the world in general ( for exam ple the im pact in the world for the undiscrim inated use of resources like
energy or water ). They don't care hum an artist or hum an art. in fact they want to kill hum an art . They love m oney and power m ore than
anything. 
They can sell the hum anity, including his dignity and the world to m achines by m oney and power.
In the topic of art ( m y case )
Ai technology should have never been developed in the way they did. They should have respect the copyrighted m aterial and never use
this m aterial to train AIs m odels without perm ission. So Ai m odels we are seen today are corrupted and they shouldn't be in the public for
use in any kind. 
Any hum an artist won't be ever able to com pete to a m achine creating thousand and thousands of peaces of art per second in the sam e
m arket. In that path, hum an art is destined to dye. And yes. They stole m any and m any copyrighted hum an m aterials created by hum ans
Wich in som e cases the creation process is of years to train AIs m odels, and with "this" stolen hum an m aterial, they want to kill those sam e
hum an artists and new com ing artists since this point of tim e and after ever. I repeat: any hum an artist won't be ever able to com pete to a
m achine creating thousand and thousands of peaces of art per second in the sam e m arket. 
In general: The negative im pact of earnings in those hum an artists is so big that has no num ber ( which in fact is against fair use doctrine ). 
There is no com pensation even if the artists accept a fee for let them  use their m aterial to train AIs m odel.
If m achines create art content by thousand and thousands, it won't be ever be sustainable for new artists, even with a fee, hum an art will
be destined to dye. 
So here in term s of art is in gam e not just a fee to artists to com pensate with m oney the use of their art to train AIs m odels, it's not just
copyright infringem ents that these big tech and CEOs want to avoid. Is about hum an art and giving the m achines the power and influence
that art has been had in all hum anity and give this power to m achines to lead hum anity. I think hum anity m ost lead, not m achines.
This will occur if the laws protect this crazy am bitions of people without any ethics. The choise about what is about to happen from  this
m om ent and that will im pact next hum anity generations is today. 
I hope the governm ent take the right choise and protect the m ust vulnerable people and their rights over the am bitions of people who are
never satisfied with the billions they m ake, and they power they have, even if they have m ore m oney to pay hundred of lawyers. I hope
you take in m ind THE JUSTICE.
Psalm  37:28 states, "For the Lord loves justice; he will not forsake his faithful ones. They are preserved forever, but the children of the
wicked shall be cut off".
Thanks.


