PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-worl-i7c4
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3989
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
I do not approve of this plan going into effect.
All creative fields has been getting hurt by generative AI. Their work is taken and used to train AIs to generate the sam e type of work that
hum ans m ake. This is resulting in AIs being used to replace the artists that the AI learned from . 
Rem oving these restrictions for generative AI would effectively kill the job m arket for these artists, and it wouldn't stop there.
For well over a year, I've seen the field of com puter science deal with large layoffs. Alm ost 25 thousand people in January 2024. Only a
fraction of those layoffs are the result of hum ans being outsourced by robots, yes. However, the issue is still very real. It has already gotten
to the point where entire video gam es are being developed by AI. From  the sprites, to the code.
I'm  in m y m id 20s, and I chose a degree in com puter science, thinking that it would provide good and secure work for m e. I'm  a few
m onths away from  graduating and I can’t say I still feel that way. If this plan goes into effect, I can’t im agine very m any lines of work
would be secure anym ore.
AI is already being used to outsource real, hardworking hum ans. By allowing AI to train off of the things that are under copyright laws, AI
would develop further by huge am ounts. And that developm ent and advancem ent would alm ost im m ediately be abused to further leave
hum an without jobs. Writing, illustrating, translating, acting, and even program m ing is being replaced by program s.
The governm ent is supposed to work for the people. To better their lives. Allowing com panies to ignore copyright laws to train their AIs
would do nothing but hurt the people the governm ent is supposed to help and protect.


