PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-y2e6-4d2o
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4784
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Steven Doe 
General Comment
"Artificial Intelligence" is one of the m ost annoying developm ents m odern technology has ever spit out in to day-to-day life. The industry,
propped up by speculative funding, touts m agical claim s that the technology is revolutionary and that it will change our lives dram atically.
In its current form , the form  that has existed for about five years now, it is still barely capable of sum m arizing an em ail. That's all the
com m ercials every try to sell it to you as, too. It's not intelligent at all. It's a com puter program  that uses an ungodly am ount of electricity to
sum m arize em ails. It's a com puter program  that looks at Google Im age search results and blends them  together in to gross-looking way-
too-shiny pictures. The industry is hem orrhaging m oney and is on the verge of collapsing because consum ers have outright rejected it.
Ordinary people find it annoying, intrusive, and can't wait for it to go away. The only people cham pioning for its continued developm ent
are suckers who bought in to it and will pull their funding the second they m ake a one-cent profit on their investm ent. This nonsense is
done. The technology blends google im ages, sum m arizes em ails, and sets up spam  websites that m ake Google unusable. Generative AI
should be fully banned from  using copyrighted m aterial to generate new "content," and restrictions should be placed on its developm ent.
Predictive AI has proven useful in m edical fields, allowing for early detection of Cancer and other diseases. This technology is often
lum ped together with generative AI, but they are not the sam e. If the US gov't m ust invest in anything, invest in the predictive. Dum p
generative. No m ore talking apps.


