PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2krd-unwu
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8388
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
The planet-killing theft m achines should not exist, nor should the com panies building them  continue to be funded. However, I am  of the
belief that, besides m any sim ilar com m ents having already been subm itted to that sam e effect, that the ram ifications of the blatant and
repeated copyright infringem ents necessary to keep the Generative AI Industry afloat are viewed largely as inconsequential relative to the
potential profits they can bring it by those with actual power here. We can all be honest here; the chief and central m otivator for
supporting Generative AI com panies here is m onetary, and I think it has becom e m ore and m ore obvious they are rotten trees. The
com panies who have invested in "developing" these m odels have spent too m uch for it to earn nothing, and it has earned nothing thus far
besides general annoyance from  the public, and its users seem  chiefly concerned with just generating pornographic im ages and "m em e"
im ages in the realm  of "What if Shrek was Freddie Mercury!?" and for writing, just finishing hom ework assignm ents if they are children,
and writing resum es if they are adults. It's em barrassing.
The com panies funding the developm ent of these generative ai program s are begging for deregulation because they are desperate for a
turnaround. They have not earned any such bailout, if they would even find salvation in it at all. What deregulation and a waive of
copyright infringem ent would largely do is encourage even less oversight over what m odels are trained on, and even less consideration
over what they are or should even be allowed to train on in the first place. You m ust truly think for a m inute, just a single m inute, what
unregulated, unm onitored, vast data collection like that of the entire world wide web would allow the Generative AI program s to produce.
Every terrible thing you can think of, it will be able to reproduce, and as it im proves, it will only becom e harder and harder to distinguish
from  reality, from  the President being depicted as sucking on Elon Musk's feet of today to years from  now when your neighbor Greg who
doesn't let his daughter go out after dark to spend tim e with her boyfriend, so she uses a Generative AI m odel to generate an im age of him
cheating on his wife and then send it to her m other under an anonym ous num ber claim ing to be said lover; she won't even need to change
her m anner of speaking, she can ask ChatGPT to handle that for her as well.
When these program s develop to the point where they can learn a face from  a few photos, when they have references of everyone to have
ever been photographed anywhere on the internet, when it is able to reference and depict horrible acts because it has even trained off of
sites the governm ent will have shutdown years ago, but which still exist through these m odels' data banks, through the "m em ory" its
developers have cultivated, what can anyone do to com bat it? No one can overcom e a near infinite am ount of lies and falsehoods,
creatable with the push of a button. Push back and regulation has to start and continue now, and it has to start with telling them  to kick
rocks. Society cannot die, and it especially cannot die for som ething that is unlikely to even m ake anyone any m oney, so people can giggle
for 10 seconds at Shrek in Freddie Mercury's yellow jacket, which is just a hodgepodge of elem ents from  a screenshot of Shrek the Third
where Shrek has a King's Robe on, and a redraw of Freddie Mercury on DeviantArt from  2012 based on a screenshot from  one of his
concerts, with Shrek having a third eye due to the program  not actually understanding what Shrek looks like, just the vague idea of what
the keyword "shrek" should represent in pixels. It cannot be allowed to happen. Please.


