PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-vcdy-raw5
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3548
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Dallon Makay  
General Comment
As a concerned citizen of the United States, it is of great worry that the state of our econom y and the m aterials behind it I m ake com m ent.
This plan to rem ove regulation of Artificial Intelligence tools and system s is dangerous to our econom y and the state of private citizens
ability to control their own m aterial. As all citizens have a right to their own lives and property as part of the Constitution our country is
founded upon, it is critical we protect our citizens and the private econom ic form s they can create. Form s of Artificial Intelligence have
ham pered these rights and attack our free speech, through both m isinform ation and direct harm  upon citizens.
A lack of regulation was the sam e cause that caused the Dot Com  bubble, the 2008 m arket collapse, NFTs, and the continued failure of
cryptocurrency. Do not strip these com panies of regulations, as they do not hold citizens of Am erica to their aid, for there is nothing
preventing these com panies from  m aking a profit of off confidential and dangerous inform ation and selling it to hostile foreign powers.
Unregulated AI is a thief to the Am erican people, a threat to security, and an individual's private governm ent inform ation should not be
available to for-profit individuals and com panies.
Unregulated AI will set a precedent to stop protecting over 340 m illion Am ericans from  enem ies within and without. By rem oving
regulation of Artificial Intelligence, the federal governm ent will fail in its duty to m aintain its tenets of protection as outlined by our
Constitution.


