PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 13, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 88-3b4h-uv55
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1276
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Nicholas Mariano  
General Comment
Dear NITRD NCO and the OSTP, and whom  it m ay concern,
I am  a software engineer. I understand the power that code has in our m odern world. As AI writes m ore and m ore of that code, we will
be forced to rely on its decisions, and to trust both its intentions and its abilities. 
I believe that AI will shape the future. I believe those who control it will reap im m ense benefits. However, code is already tough to verify.
The nature and volum e of AI will m ake it extrem ely difficult to check its work. This leads to extrem e risks as we give system s control over
m ore and m ore critical knowledge infrastructure.
Already, im plem enting AI into our world presents a huge technical and logistical challenge. With the introduction of agentic system s, up to
and beyond “artificial general intelligence” (AGI), the risks will grow exponentially. A m isaligned system  m ight introduce bugs or m alicious
software that affects large parts of our world. It is ABSOLUTELY IMPERATIVE that we invest in and incentivize research into
understanding how to understand and direct the goals of artificially intelligent system s. 
Artificial intelligence is the future; but developing it without strong, directional, and global leadership in AI safety will cause suffering for all
of hum anity. This is why I am  im ploring you to take a leadership role on AI safety and to do whatever it takes to bring the global
com m unity, even our com petitors, into line.
That is why I am  calling for the US to m ake a deal with China, and to create a global alliance that enforces safe AI research practices,
including but not lim ited to com pute caps for training runs and required research for frontier m odels on topics like interpretability and
verification m echanism s.
Please, I urge you to take this issue with the utm ost solem nity and seriousness. Of all the im portant issues facing us today, NONE is in the
sam e tier as this. It will directly determ ine m y future. It will directly determ ine your future. It will directly determ ine the world’s future, and
the fate of our species as a whole.
Sincerely,
Nick Mariano


