PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0et7-j4ku
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6576
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Brandon 
Mathews   Email: 
General Comment
Generative AI data scraping is NOT FAIR USE and should not be allowed. Otherwise copyright will lose all m eaning. Once AI has free-
reign to continue to take and take, the counts of non-AI instances of individuals doing the sam e will ALSO rise.
If it continues long enough, Copyright will com pletely fall apart. How does one justify a Copyright Infringem ent when Generative AI can
just 'learn' from  and 'reproduce' from  Copyrighted works without infringing?
Further, if AI voice-acting, AI singing, AI writing advance without guardrails or safeguards, how can one ever tell they're talking to the real
person? Hearing the real person? It would be far, far too easy to just program  an AI to im personate som eone and m ake them  do or say
whatever a bad actor m ay want.
What's to stop AI generation from  stealing profit from  corporations through false representation? False statem ents? Faked products?
Already the AI generation problem  is lowering the quality of all goods, including AMERICAN goods.
What's to stop a Foreign Actor from  m aking an AI version of an Am erican leader and m aking them  say or do som ething to interfere with
their im age? Fabricate evidence, tam per with witnesses, etc. We as people, corporations and governm ent are already struggling with such
things as-is. 
AI needs to be chained and collared. AI needs safeguards. AI needs to be CONTROLLED before WE lose control of the AI and suffer
the consequences. 
AI data scraping is copyright infringem ent. AI data scraping is not fair use. AI art is not art, AI voice-acting is not voice acting, AI
products, AI m ovies, AI gam es are all scam s. This will ruin our econom y, destroy faith in governm ent, corporations, religions, the
Am erican way will vanish. Collar AI. Control AI. Do not let AI destroy Am erica.


