PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3m 43-b5wd
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9295
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I am  a PhD-prepared nurse who studies A.I. and its im pacts on patients and com m unities. A.I. is an extrem ely broad term  that
encom passes a m yriad of different techniques and technologies. I am  deeply concerned about the current lack of transparency with
regards to proprietary A.I. tech, and especially surveillant form s of A.I. While clinicians have been told we m ust safeguard patients from
harm  and explain how technologies like A.I. function to im pact care, this is basically im possible given the way in which both everything
from  m achine learning applications to robots are labeled “A.I.” while sim ultaneously lacking any standardized labeling requirem ents like
m odel cards (which are not necessarily adequate, but a start) or Federal protections against data-based discrim ination. Furtherm ore,
biases baked into extant health databases such as electronic health records continue to be am plified by som e form s of this tech, as was the
case with Optum ’s algorithm  - one of the first to be form ally audited by a team  of scientists (Oberm eyer and colleagues). The dem ands of
som e form s of A.I. such as generative A.I. on planetary resources & unwaged or underwaged labor (in the absence of m ore thorough
audits, regulatory requirem ents, or policies better safeguarding worker autonom y & occupational safety) poses a significant threat to
public health, the clim ate, & the overall well-being of the U.S. workforce. I urge the NSF & U.S. governm ent to adopt principles of
consentful tech and to return to abd build upon com m itm ents laid out in the OSTP’s previous blueprint for an A.I. bill of rights.
Furtherm ore, as m ulti-agent form s of generative A.I. pose unique challenges with regards to evaluation, legal status, and collaboration
across m ultiple A.I. system s, I urge extrem e caution with regards to any further developm ent, testing or deploym ent of such tech - whether
for research, clinical care delivery, or other purposes.


