PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-084o-fspk
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6429
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: A.R. Fow ler  
Email: 
General Comment
Generative AI is a blight not just upon the art world, but the United States especially. US history has long highlighted the individual nature
and focus of our great country, of our rights and safeguards for the content we as hum an individuals create and contribute to a greater
national fabric either for profit or to speak to a broader class. Gen AI, really any m odel that requires training from  copywritten sources,
violates those rights, violates the distinctively Am erican history that has defined the Am erican arts and m ade it stand out from  the
European, the Soviet Socialist collective, and the totalitarian state dem anded art worlds.
These generative AI com panies are snakeoil salespersons trying to offset their hefty loses by thefting from  honest and hard working
Am ericans. Major com panies such as Microsoft and Google have recognized the fallacy of heavy AI investm ent and cut back funding
significantly because they recognize how m uch of a wasteful m oney pit generative AI and its associates are. OpenAI internally knows this
but would rather lie to the faces of the citizens of this great nation in their pursuit of profit. These generative AI com panies are not only
deeply un-Am erican with how they violate the copyright of honest Am erican citizens and groups, but they are also not loyal to the nation.
Any com pany can feign loyalty then buzz off to another nation when they determ ine it is cheaper to produce their products there at the
cost of Am erican jobs and taxes. 
As an Am erican citizen, I do not condone the public funding of generative AI projects, I do not condone the use of precious tax dollars
and valuable Am erican energy on wasteful products that only harm  Am erican citizens by theft of both copyright and jobs, and I do not
condone the environm ent and financial harm  these com panies will do the Am erican people and the great environm ent we are so lucky to
have com pared to the rest of the world. Generative AI is deeply un-Am erican, violates the individual Am erican citizen by robbing them
even with copyright, and belongs to com panies that will never hold loyalty to our great nation and only believe in profits despite all the
harm  they create in the nam e of it. We cannot allow this to occur for the sake of the Am erican individual and in honor our nation's
historical heritage in regards to the arts. To accept would be an absolute rejection of that past instead of honoring our legacy.


