PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-266b-9pj5
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8035
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
Enacting this Plan would be a m istake for the United States of Am erica. The current "burdensom e" legislative barriers to AI developm ent
perform  a vital service in ensuring the reliability of Am erican inform ation and in m aintaining the quintessential soul and intent of cultural
creation.
Social m edia is already rife with AI generated clickbait content and fake news. A future with unrestricted AI developm ent and deploym ent
would see little authenticity in all facets of life; m ore than a cultural issue, AI has been known to push incorrect and dangerous inform ation
when responding to innocuous prom pts. This false inform ation can kill.
With the rise of AI writing tools like ChatGPT, students have every opportunity to cheat the education system . No Am erican will benefit
from  inflated academ ic figures. Even if ChatGPT works with educators to safeguard academ ia, rem oving restrictions on AI developm ent
and deploym ent will enable com petitors to roll out alternative tools which can bypass existing and future academ ic authenticity checks.
Given current global and econom ic tensions, it is unwise to lift the set restrictions. These groups dom inate a large share of the tech sphere;
any interference during unprecedented expansion would be catastrophic. A cyber attack, perhaps, could target a sm all com pany to test
existing defense m easures and plan for a larger-scale offensive. An econom ic im pedim ent, such as a halt on hardware im port or
m anufacture, would have these com panies collapse, leaving consum ers without the tools they have potentially built their businesses around.
An energy crisis would invite corruption as these AI giants clam ored to take what little power there was to go around in order to fuel their
incredibly dem anding servers and com puters.
Many careers are also at risk of being replaced by ram pant AI. Artists, m usicians, and writers are the backbone of our nation's cultural
identity. Given a few years, a single tech-savvy program m er could replace an entire team  of career artists to produce a gallery-worthy
collection for the highest bidder. Corporations would jum p at the chance to cut labor costs by firing writers and other creators in favor of
m uch cheaper AI. Technological advancem ents have replaced careers in the past, but these replaced jobs were dangerous and taxing:
m illworkers, assem bly line workers, and farm ers used to toil for hours in unsafe conditions, but now are working harm oniously with
technology that keeps them  safe and well. To replace these cultural creators would be to suck the life out of art and m edia.
There are too m any variables and too m any dangers. Artifical Intelligence m ust be watched closely. This Plan m ust not be enacted. Let
Am erica be the prem iere in *safe* AI developm ent and deploym ent. Let AI be a tool guided by the governm ent, created by the people
and for the people, not for profit.


