PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-z1f7-gfs4
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5475
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Timothy Jones  
General Comment
Hello!
I've been involved in the field of com putational linguistics since 2005, and a hobbyist in the field of generative art since the 90s (ever since
the field was called "m eta art"). As m y field m oves to its zenith, I feel there are several changes that can be m ade - as a m atter of law, and
a m atter of policy - that would secure the advantages of AI for the future.
First and forem ost: Fair use. While Am erica currently enjoys better protections of the right of fair use than the entire rest of the world,
these protections are largely shaped by judicial decisions, not establisehd by statue. Federal law m ust be written to m ake fair use an
affirm ative defense, explicitly including sum m arizing, discussing, reviewing, satirizing, inspiration, citing, and creating works in the sam e vein
as a cited work, autom atically defended. This would ensure that creative uses of content are not stifled by legal uncertainty - and it would
benefit craftsm en who don't use AI, as well.
Second: SLAPP protection. Currently, artificial intelligence projects can be stalled or even stopped by well-heeled litigants who, even
without valid copyright or patent claim s, threaten software m akers with prohibitively expensive lawsuits. Right here in Kansas City,
Mycroft AI - a com petitor to Asia's Siri and Google Assistant - was sued out of existance by a patent troll. To allow a lawsuit, a product
ought only be in violation of the copyright of a work if it can be used, intentionally and consistently without induction by the user, to m ake
a copy of the product. This m irrors the standard we hold photocopiers to: a photocopier can be used to m ake copies of copyrighted
works, but photocopiers are legal because they do not seek out and generate, they m ust be induced to do so by a user. The m ere
presence of training corpora or probability m atrices in a work of software should not m agically m ake it vulernable to unboudned copyright
claim s.
Third: Copyright dam age lim itations. The m axim um  dam age that a business can charge should be capped to a reasonable m arket value -
roughtly the ordinary sale price of a work in that style. Right now, copyright cartels have been stifiling innovation by threatening dam ages
that exceed the total am ount they would ever m ake from  it - for exam ple, Getty vs Stability AI. These astronom ical dem ands have created
a class of 'vam pire copyright holderss' who produce or purchase rights not to create works to sell, but to have an avenue to pursue
litigation Our legal fram ework should forcus on ensuring that creators are com pensated fairly; not to give the publishers the ability to seek
infinite rent on a work inspired by a creator they represent.
Fourth: Public dom ain datasets. Major providers of works, such as the Library of Congress, the Sm ithsonian, NASA, NSF, and NOAA
all provide inform ation that is the basis of m any a public dom ain dataset; the US Governm ent should take the reigns of, publishing so m uch
high-quality, hard-to-falsify, and consistent data that it is hard for any other country to step in. A hundred years ago, in the days of Federal
Project Num ber One (a project for writers to work in World War II), one of the works they created, the Handbook of Mathem atical
Functions, is treated as so foundational to advanced m athem atics that a European poet once called it "Am erica's gift to hum anity." A blitz
of good inform ation can be this generation's Federal Project One, a scientific baseline that im proves art and industry with it.
Fifth: Responsibility. A Section 230-like assignm ent of sole responsibility for the flaws of AI to the users of AI. In the early days of the
internet, m any people attem pted to wash their hands clean of any liablity by stating that the website, as the algorithm  that last transm ited


was the true originator of the final m essage; Section 230 prevented abusers from  using this to wash their own hands clean of liability.
Sim ilarly, if som eone m isuses AI, they m ust be held solely responsible for their actions.
Finally: If Am erican Artificial Intelligence is to take off, it m ust be open source. There are thousands of open source AI packages out
there, and Am ericans can (and should) be working on, heading, and curating them . After all, one of the biggest reasons that China's
DeepSeek was adopted so quickly was its easy licensing under the perm issive MIT license. An open-source approach draws in
developers, users, and creators quickly - as the sudden gold rush to DeepSeek has proven. The laws of Europe and Asia are deeply
beholden to international copyright cartels. But while they seek infinite rent from  works they never m ade, we can m ake the field
quintessentially Am erican by providing the field with eager support - field, turning the field into one that is free to use, thus free to hack,
thus free to get hooked on. After all, if they have no strings holding them  to their hom e nations, they'll find no reason not to m ove to a
nation that supports them .


