PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 11, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 84-3i5v-uui4
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1130
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Lisa M
A
General Comment
All I know is that AI has the capacity - as m uch as a nuclear weapon, and in som e ways worse b.c it is silent - to disrupt forever m ore our
sovereignty and privacy, our health. Transhum anism  and AI go (hum an) hand in (robot) hand.
AI can be num bered within the Top 4 of topics for which there is an ESSENTIAL Need for Oversight and Regulation (along with
m edicine/pharm aceuticals, agriculture/environm ental toxins/FDA regulations, and geoengineering; all things that affect citizens on a day-to-
day basis and have a HUGE effect on individual lives/health with no recourse once set in m otion; all 4 a Pandora's box).
I appreciate m ost everything President Trum p is doing (to say, I don't have TDS) and I am  the biggest proponent I know for individual
freedom , hence less regulations, but I have heard that AI is being unregulated and it literally m akes m e shake in m y boots and throw m y
hands up in com plete, I do not exaggerate, despair.
May I point out, that is like unregulating nuclear weapons.
AI not only needs to be regulated, it needs to be paused NOW - before it is too late. Not that there aren't thousands of positive uses for
AI that can enhance hum anity, but the possible harm  far outweighs the benefits until it can be accurately assessed, not to m ention precisely
determ inded how it can be contained. Tim e is needed to create a strategy for m oving forward. A strategy for the whole world since
nothing creates One World like AI.
Give the world tim e for a breather. Suss out the far-ranging possibilities when (not if) AI is m isused. Set up boundaries and strategies and
back up plans. Then create m ore back up plans. And m ore again.
Biggest opposition to this idea: What about China and all the other countries who are not stopping and have ill intent? To be behind is to
loose, possibly to bring on exactly what I, and hundreds of thousands of others, are fearing with an even worse scenario of no control
whatsoever.
Back to the nuclear analogy, MAD (m utual assured destruction) and SALT (Strategic Arm s Lim itation Treaties) were far from  perfect,
but they provided enough tim e to evaluate. (I am  not looking for petty argum ents on how they were flawed, I am  using them  as an
exam ple of how they were used as policies of negotiation.)
We need an AI MAD and SALT. 
President Trum p has no hesitation in wielding Teddy Roosevelt's Big Stick. He is respected world wide because he uses it and we are
seeing that use alm ost every day. 
Please use it here, President Trum p. I don't exactly know how and it is m ore com plicated because who is to know what is going on in
back room s or even on a single com puter, but if you m ake the penalty harsh enough (the big stick) other countries will listen. It always
com es out eventually. When it does, let them  know that you will bring the stick down. 


This is not a forever proposition, it is a let us m ake sure we have a landing pad before we jum p off the final cliff. There were what? I'll
m ake up a num ber. Let's say 11 safeguards that had to go wrong for the nuclear m eltdown at Chernobyl. How it could advance that far
without a preordained safeguard kicking in seem s unim aginable. But it did. We are at som e level before 11 (I don't know enough to know
which) on AI safeguards.
Don't let it get to 11. This is MUCH bigger than Chernobyl. If we are too far gone to draw it in: the program m ing is out there and
knowledge is power and there is no putting it back in a box, then bring together the best m inds you know and figure out how to m itigate
where we are without allowing AI to gain m ore traction. Com e up with an AI Reagan Strategic Defense Initiative. Find ways to stop it
before it has a chance to hit the earth and irrevocably destroy all in its path.
On the positive side, as evaluations are considered, invite the world in to collaborate. Create TRUE unity and accord. Not hom ogeny and
one world order (God forbid), but a drawing together in the realization that this is too powerful to let it go astray. We did it with all the
wrong inform ation and in m ostly all the wrong ways with covid. But the greatest silver lining is that we saw a world that not only could
com e together, but one that wanted to com e together. It was convoluted in a Plandem ic, but the shining star was how m uch people cared
and were willing to work with each other. Hold AI back from  the dark and keep it pointed toward the light (for goodness is as inherent in
AI as its potential evil), and turn the whole thing around to create excitem ent and good will with the largest of all doses of caution.
I don’t see that there is m uch other realistic choice. MAD. It's where we are at once again. And the results could be equally as destructive
as nuclear annihilation with no hope of return.
To flip the analogy to a m ore earth-bound one, m ountaineers carry ice axes so that when they are tum bling toward the cliff edge they can
heft it in and stop their deadly fall.
Find then place the ice axe.


