PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3jnt-4uo2
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9225
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Andrew Leam on  
General Comment
Hello, m y nam e is Andrew Leam on and I am  a writer of com ic books and m arketing copy. Professional writing has m any challenges from
writer's block to m aintaining steady work, but the greatest challenge and existential threat to writing -- one of the oldest and m ost revered
occupations is artificial intelligence and the overreach by artificial intelligence com panies. 
More specifically, the regulations (or lack thereof) that AI com panies like OpenAI are openly seek to destroy creative industries and
m illions of lives with no net benefit. They want no oversight and all the copyright protection. I have personally witnessed the dam age of
ChatGPT's introduction to m y industry. Many of m y colleagues have been laid off and replaced by inaccurate and regularly hallucinating
technology. Many writers are finding their works plagarized. Many schools are finding student papers are generated on ChatGPT. This is
unacceptable on every single level. 
Now OpenAI has gone to the president and stated that China's em erging AI com pany is stealing data so they should be allowed to as
well. 
With the rate of the billions and billions of dollars that OpenAI and their Chinese rival keep wasting, they will not be in business for m uch
longer. That is not som ething the Am erican people should worry about.
Am erican and Chinese Investors know that AI is too m uch of a risk and they will be dropping out in the com ing m onths. That is not a
cause for urgency, but ease.
The enorm ous financial and environm ent costs to m aintain AI data centers alone is not worth protecting. 
The possible revenue AI *could* generate doesn't com e close to the revenue writers and artists *actually* generate as freelance and as
salaried workers. Regulations exist to protect workers and consum ers, not com panies.
Allowing OpenAI to steal writers' works is not just a spit in the face to hardworking Am ericans, it is a terrible waste of m oney and
resources.
I urge this body to avoid any regulatory actions that would harm  writers and artists. We are the lifeblood of every industry and deserve
every protection over a m oney and energy wasting com pany that seeks to strip us of our protections.
AI com panies want to steal our works for their financial gain, but we m ust tell them  no. Tearing down protections for writers and artists
will only m ake things worse for all Am ericans. It will not keep us com petitive. It will not provide anyone except OpenAI any actual
benefit. 
I urge the body to follow precedent and keep regulatory, copyright and privacy laws in tact.


