PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3061-qkbm
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8742
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
Current copyright laws are not “unnecessarily burdensom e” on AI developm ent, they are extrem ely necessary. They protect intellectual
property. The fact that true, original creation by individuals can be protected by copyright helps to facilitate a strong econom y— it is
essential to the free m arket to function. If creators of art, video, photography, and written m aterials cannot protect their m eans of m aking
m oney, they cannot participate in keeping the econom y circulating. 
AI should not be able to use copyrighted m aterials without perm ission from  the copyright holder. AI cannot m ake anything original or with
thought, the way hum an can— it can only regurgitate the m aterials that are inputted into the program . If these are stolen from  copyrighted
m aterials, AI should not be able to create m aterials that hold a copyright itself, as it was used unlawfully and unethically. AI is currently too
unregulated. To get ahead globally, in the long term , we m ust look ahead— utilize AI ethically, without using copyrighted m aterials without
perm ission, without harm ing the environm ent by using copious am ounts of water, and fact check the AI so it can’t cause m isinform ation—
then you will have an am azing product ahead of any other countries that are attem pting to use AI without regulating it. You’ll have
som ething everyone can support. As other AI program s crash around the world when they are litigated against and hated by the
population for stealing work, AI in the US will rem ain because it had a strong foundation by creating thoughtful regulations before it grew
too big too fast. Unregulated AI is the hare, and regulated AI is the tortoise. AI will be supported and widely used by creators, if it is not
stealing their work, harm ing their environm ent, or taking their jobs. Em ploym ent m akes a happy econom y. Autom ating enjoyable jobs
m eans no one will have the m oney to spend to keep the econom y healthy.


