PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 12, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 86-50y4-74ve
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1155
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: R R  Email: 
General Comment
Our world is driven by digital com m unications, and digital transform ations over the past three years, has further com plicated access to
one's PII (personally identifiable inform ation). AI, m ore specifically Machine Learning (ML) and Deep Learning (DL) have transform ed
data m anagem ent, especially in term s of privacy and security. It is critically im portant that periodic reviews of authorized users of PII,
include reviewing who has the need-to-know. Authorized and Need-to-Know are two distinct aspects, as are Security and Privacy. 
NIST Risk Fram ework (SP 800-53 & 800-161) m ust be a practice for all entities. Transparent privacy policies and consent m echanism s
m ust be required and entities using AI tools (ML/DL), m ust im plem ent m echanism s of to inform  individuals how their data is collected,
used, and shared. There m ust be m echanism s in place to ensure individuals always retain control over their PII or personal data, and
shield individuals from  unauthorized access, m isuse, or exploration. This also applies to allow only those with the need-to-know have
practices in place to ensure proper access and use.
Policies and procedures m ust be im plem ented that address access control, m anaging who is authorized AND who has the need to access.
Procedures and com m on practices in granting appropriate perm issions, using m ulti-factor authentication, and regularly reviewing and
updating access rights.
Entities m ust prioritize data protection by im plem enting robust security m easures, and ensuring that individuals always retain ownership of
their data.
Entities m ust im plem ented privacy-by-design principles,
Entities m ust im plem ented m easures to ensure data m inim ization and purpose lim itations
Entities m ust regularly audit and assess privacy com pliance.


