PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-21qx-rq8m
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7959
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Devin Lynch  
General Comment
AI, from  what I've seen and have been told over its m assive presence since the arrival of ChatGPT a few years ago, offers little of actual
value to the average Am erican. It m ight seem  that AI program s could create conveniences, but when they are incredibly clunky, inaccurate
if not outright wrong or m isleading, or filled with hallucinations (m ade-up inform ation by the AI that it passes to readers as if it were real)
that it can't detect if they are real or otherwise. If we can't trust the inform ation on the internet as websites and browsers force AI on
users, those sites can harm  their pursuit for knowledge by AI's failures. 
Corporations like OpenAI, Google, Microsoft, Apple, etc. like to present AI as the new tim esaver, but they save little effort with such
defective program s. These com panies force everyone to use them  despite their problem s. AI also risks stealing jobs and hobbies from
Am ericans as large corporations m ight use an AI program  instead of a hum an being to write, analyze, or extrapolate inform ation, creative
or otherwise. The fact that AI is built on stolen written work, doesn't help. AI's purpose is to steal the chance to give a voice to people
creating authentic inform ation and stories. 
AI is a solution looking for a problem ; as long as those running the businesses behind the m ost prolific AI can't help but steal m illions of
assets and dollars from  the average Am erican, they should not be allowed to continue to steal. AI sim ply doesn't belong in Am erica if its
only way to thrive is to steal.


