PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-o8ar-fxnc
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1696
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  TeraDact Holdings Inc
General Comment
Please see our attached TeraDact - Office of Science & Technology Policy’s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
Attachments
TeraDact Office of Science Technology Policys Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence AI Action Plan


Office of Science & Technology Policy’s Request for Information  
on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
90 Fed. Reg. 9088 (Feb. 6, 2025)  
Docket No. NSF  FRDOC  0001 
March 1 4, 2025  
Artificial Intelligence has shown itself to be a revolutionary advancement for the United States and the world  to an 
even greater extent than the tele graph, telephone, and the internet  to the daily life of our citizens.  W ith near unlimited 
capability to revolutionize most , if not all aspects of American life for the better  when harnessed appropriately for our 
common good .  As a result, t here is a keen desire to ensure that the United States remain s a critical world and 
thought leader for the advance ment of  AI as we undergo this revolutionary transition  period.   There is a real potential 
for AI to fundamentally  transform nearly every industry and aspect within the United Sta tes and to supercharge 
defense, medical, and scientific discoveries and improve global efficiencies for citizens of the United States  and by 
extension all citizens of the world will also see improvements to their daily life .  To support this, it  will require the 
custom tailoring  of our policy , procedures, protocols , legislati on, and frameworks by Federal, State , and Local 
governments to ensure that the United States move s cohesively into this new age of wonder supported by the 
advance ment of  AI.  TeraDact has already participa ted in the development and application of AI -based frameworks at 
a nation -state level for the United Kingdom1,2,3 and has demonstrated American Dynamism in action by providing 
advanced AI to drive the optimization and efficiency for justice, policing , and national forces  ensuring the most 
efficient use of resources by the United Kingdom in support of its citizens  and to place resources where they can 
provide the most value while alleviating make -work requirements .  Our experience with nation -state frameworks 
provides us with unique insight into the uncharted waters that the United States will be navigating  via this Request 
For Information (RFI) and how to best promote the United States  development of advanced AI while simultaneously 
improving the lives of our fellow citizens .   
As it stands, the United States is a leader in AI, but we are not immune to foreign or malice -motivated actors seeking 
to disrupt our AI capabilities and future development.  As most recently shown by foreign  AI entities  this year4, 
outside actors seek to leverag e the advancements the United States has developed for AI Infrastructure, Hardware, 
Platforms, Solutions , and Tooling to quickly train, copycat,  and bootleg off our industry -leading AI industry’s hard-
earned research and development .  Unfortunately, there appears to be a coming balkanization of the world based on 
the underlying foundational technologies , and ultimately our partners and allies will be looking for leadership from the 
United States to provide foundational technology based upon our ideals of democratic and ethic al AI.  To support 
these ideals, the United States needs to act with alacrity to maintain its competitive advantage and to drive further 
innovation to unlock our full AI potential for our citizens, our partners and allies5, and for the betterment of the world.   
TeraDact as an AI startup has demonstrate d American Dynamism by being able to develop and harness advanced 
AI’s benefits to support our American ideals for democratic and ethical AI use while supporting our national interests  
and the most efficient use of government resources to support our citizens .  The United States currently leads the 
world in developing advanced AI Infrastructure, Hardware, Platforms, Solutions , and Tooling , and President Trump’s 
request to sustain and enhance6 America’s global AI domi nance is well -timed to ensure that the United States has 
the policy, procedures, protocols, legislation , and frameworks to drive this innovation and to “ unleash our most 
brilliant innovators, and use AI to improve the well -being of our nations and their peoples. ” as Vice President Vance 
eloquently shared  in his AI speech in Paris earlier this year7.  TeraDact is committed to supporting the United States 
by support ing our Federal, State, and Local governments  to bring the Artificial Intelligence Action Plan to life  through 
our deep understand ing of the technology and its impacts on our daily li ves as Americans.  
To further the United States’ AI Action Plan , we recommended the following holistic ideals : 
•Investment in AI at all levels:  The United States can take concrete and fast- moving  actions to boost AI
development:
oSustained funding for foundational AI research and availability of comput ing infrastructure with our
national laboratories to ensure necessary underlying resources to continue to drive research i n
advanced AI  capabilities and functionality
oFederal Policies and Frameworks to drive access to publicly available, timely, secure , and unique
datasets necessary for AI to efficiently learn and be trained to support advancements in research


and provide operational efficiencies to the economy  across industries.   Further , we look to the 
federal government to provide data privacy, security , and AI laws to ensure uniformity and common 
understanding of the legal framework necessary for AI to flourish  
oImport and Export Controls to allow for a balance of trade while protecting national security whil e
enabling the release of lesser AI models and capabilities to the wider global community similar to
how the United States handles defense and military capabilities with our partners and allies.
Ultimately our goal should be to share e thical AI with the global community that will drive both
democratic ideals along with economic opportunities within our borders and with our allies.   These
controls should also consider the ebb and flow of capital to allow our allies and partners to bolster
our capabilities and the ir own through the partnership of capabilities and capital to drive positiv e
outcomes for citizens of both countries.
oAct as the First and Foremost customer of advanced AI innovation vendors and providers, whether
they are at the Infrastructur e, Hardware, Platform,  Solution, or Tooling level to ensure that a robust
and viable market is available for all consumers to choose the appropriate tools and solutions
whether they are State, Local, Enterprise, Small and Medium Business and Individual -based on
their needs for advanced AI.  Whi le considering the broader implications of the global economy we
also need to allow for our partners and allies to be able to fulfi ll the role of Second Customer to our
advanced AI Infrastructure, Hardware, Platforms, Solutions and Tooling and enable efficiencies towhich they would not have the prerequisite and foundational capabilities to independently developthe c
ritical underpinning support structure and ta king advantage of our authorized export of the
appropriate level of advanced AI technologies.
•Federal government to drive adoption as a leader of AI  procurement
oThe use government can follow the lead of other nations8,9 and surpass those nations through  the
accelerated adoption of AI infrastructure, solutions and technologies from a collection of UnitedStates based vendors and pr ov
iders to ensure that the best of breed AI Infrastructure, Hardware,
Platforms, Solutions and , Tooling to develop in a robust marketplace primed and initiated by the
federal government
oPromote open and free markets domestically and aboard to ensure that the best -of-breed AI
solutions are available to State, Local, Enterprise, Small and Medium Business and Individualinterests and needs for advanced AI
•Promote American Innovation
oPromote American Dynamism in the global economic community and champion ethical AI to our
allies and partners in the global community and how supporting these ideals drives dynamismwithin the broad global economy
oTailored solutions for our allies and partners that meet each country’s needs for sovereignty, andnational security while provid ing advanced capabilities to drive efficiencies in their own economies
based on ethical and democratic ideals while removing restrictive trade barriers to allow forbalanced trade, fair use , and mutual improvement of our countries and our economies thr ough
updated and amended trade agreements.
•Supp
ort foundational and effective capitalism and market -building in the United States and abroad  to
support American ideals for democratic and ethical AI
oContinue the federal government ’s goal of removing restrictive trade barriers across the globe that
hold harm American Dynamism and AI advancements for the sake of protecting entrenched localint
erests at the cost of improved economies and market efficiencies.  Further these entrenched
interests often seek to utilize our advancements while protecting their se parate but similar
technologies in an attempt to copycat and bootleg from our hard- earned research and development
and use that as a platform to jump ahead technologically  while not providing back to the common
good of the United States or the world as a whole .  AI is a global phenomenon that will have
significant impacts on citizens, economies, and marketplaces worldwide , and as such we will need
to ensure that this revolution is in support of free and equal trade amongst nations .
oChampion market driven solutions and widely adopt technical standards for security, privacy and
ethical AI to be able to partner with private industry.  The federal government has already
championed the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and International
Organization for Standard (ISO) to ensure minimums for policy, process, and operations are met,and the federal government can continue this role by ensur ing that all vendors and providers within
the functioning market are required to meet the ISO standards as part of the procurement processand the federal government fulfilling its role as First and Foremost customer to enable the creati on
of a thriving marketplace for State, Local, Enterprise, Small and Medium Business and Individualinte
rests and needs for advanced AI


TeraDact as a startup has a n insightful  understanding of the where the rubber -meets -the-road as it relates to 
advancing  AI ideals and what will provide a positive impact and result in the federal government and private industry 
meeting President Trump’s request to sustain and enhanc e America’s global AI dominance.  Many of the 
recommendations below represent American common sense and ingenuity to continue to drive American Dynamism 
and demonstrate our leadership to the world around driving the next great re volution in technology.  We humbly 
submit the following recommendations:  
•Adopt balanced import and export control policies
oImport and e xport controls can play an important role in supporting national stability, security, and
innovation and must be tailored to support legitimate free market access for United Statescomp
anies while protecting the sensitive aspects of our own economy.  We feel that advanced AI
technologies should be used in a similar manner as defense and mil itary technologies as a means
to provide access to better solutions to our partners and allies, while protecting the United Statesinterests, and to provide c apabilities and protection to our allies and partners where they are unabl e
to effectively develop their own capabilities thereby supporting national security goals andimpr
oving the global economy and marketplace
oFurther the federal government will need to tailor export controls to avoid creating undue
competitive disadvantages for U.S. companies. We suggest that the federal government should
increase resources and drive a transformation of the State and the Commerce Departments totran
sform the export licensing processes and consideration of wider AI environment inclusive of AI
Infrastructure, Hardware, Platforms, Solutions an d Tooling.  Effective enforcement requires robust
international engagement to maximize glo bal compliance. Beyond effectiveness of the systems to
support export, this will provide the opportunity for monetize advanced AI to our allies and partnersin a fashion  of defense 
and military technologies  which will further strengthen our relationship with
the world and deepen the connection between our partners and allies .  We recognize that there is a
strong potential for a balkanization of the world at a foundational level and we will be separated by
our foundation technologies of which advanced AI wil l be one strategic difference among many,
and each country will choose which foundation they wish to align to and whether or not thosefoundations lead to authoritarianism, mistrust and uncertainty or act as a guiding light fordemoc r
atic and ethical ideal s to those foundational technologies
oMoreover, the federal government should unilaterally opposed foreign government mandated
disclosures which require the release of sensitive business and trade secrets which have beenshown to be used by foreign governments to copycat and bootleg advancements of functiona lity
and w
hole cloth copying of existing United States industries.  Further to the point, some
governments have used these forced disclosures to comprise national and individual security.
•Invest in the AI  business environment within the United States
oFully fund and accelerate AI Research and Development, fast-moving and sustained investment in
foundational technologies to support advanced AI research and development which provides asource of initial innovation and drives thought leadership throughout the industry and has led todevelopments such as AI Retrieval, Augmentation, Generation (“RAG”) which was foundationallybuilt upon Machine Learning research and development.   The goal of the investment would be
clearly aligned with the United States’ des ire 
to retain leadership and solv e the most challenging
and critical unsolved questions.  By partnering with the national laboratories to leverage the existingnational infrastructure to fund the further advancement of AI.
oEnsu
re the  United States research  and development community remains focused on innovation
rather than resource access and acquisition. By focusing on how AI -driven research approaches
can help fuel scientific breakthroughs in areas beyond AI itself.  Our national laboratories will be
able to act as a hub and spoke s to provide immediate funding, access to AI Infrastructure,
Hardware, Platforms, Solutions and Tooling to support continued and sustained  advance d research
in science, cybersecurity, and chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) risk s. Beyond
this, the federal government should also begin the research and collection of non -sensitive AI
Infrastructure, Hardware, Platforms, Solutions and Tooling to be available to provide researchers
and institutions with support to prioritize research and development  of CBRN risk areas .
oLowering the barrier for entry to the United States a long fast -lane citizenship pathways for foreign
nationals who have unique capabilities and education to be able to support our conti nued
development of advanced AI capabilities through research and development.  Much like OperationPaperclip, the knowledge, know -how, 
skills , and capabilities to drive advancement in AI is not
solely trapped within the United States, and to take a forward -looking  view to bring in the best and


brightest who would be dedicated to restructuring their lives within the United States and who 
promote American ideals of democratic and ethical AI would supercharge our development 
capabilities.  
oSupport private industry through the partial restoration of 26 U.S. Code § 174 - Amortization of
research and experimental expenditures .  While this code section was updated under the prior Tax
Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), this significantly change the legal, and operating environment foradvanced AI companies.  We fully agree that the tax implications of moving research and
development role s ove
rseas should not be support ed through tax policy, the restoration of onshore
and within the United States legitimate  research and development activities as it stands defined
within section 174 and to allow for the full tax credit within the same year of spend withoutamortization.  We also believe that the current 15- year amortization for overseas and forei gn
research development activities should be increased to 2 0 year
s to further support the  repatriation
of high -skill and high- value research and development roles as they have been defined under
section 174.
oAccelerate AI  research and development , streamline access to AI Infrastructure, Hardware,
Platforms, Solutions , and Tooling resources for researchers, and incentivize public -privat e
partnerships with our nat ional laboratories  and public institutions .  Long -term, sustained
investments in foundational domestic  research and development  and AI -driven scientific discovery
go hand- in-hand and have already provided the U.S. with immediate and crucial advantage s in the
race for global scientific leadership. Lawmakers and policymakers should accelerate these efforts
with a focus on velocity funding allocations to early invention and ideas designed to drive the
research and development community whether its individual , scientists, or institutions .
oAccelerate and Modernize Government AI Adoption To enable public sector organizations to fully
benefit from AI.  The federal government leverage s opportunities to transform procurement of
emerging AI technology and leverage the full capabilities of advanced AI while removing t he
limitations of entrenched legacy technology vendors and providers.   With adoption of advanced AI
capabilities by the federal government combined with accelerated research and development
creates a positive feedback loop of the best capabilities  being created and supported at a national
level to ensure that the United States remains a global leader in  advanced AI capabilities.
oIncrease the velocity procurement of advanced AI technologies we suggest that the federal
government focus on vendors and providers who support and have met the requirements ofnational and international standards bodies to ensure that a minimum functionality, capability , and
security has been applied to the technologies in question.  The creation of frameworks to allow formult
i-vendor and providers to prove out in an ecosphere model the most capable  and cost -efficient
AI technologies to fulfill the need o f the federal government.  Furthermore, any interoperable whic h
the federal government can require of AI vendors and provider s will allow for the free data
portability and migration to the most effect ive and efficient providers when new entrants enter the
marketplace regardless of underlying AI Infrastructure, Hardware, Platforms, Solutions , and Tooling
to prevent regulatory capture by entrench interests10.  Moreover, the federal government as part of
its procurement policies and processes should require open data standards and API access for all
federal government deployments to further the interoperability and portability of solutions acquired
through a robust and functioning marketplace to increase the velocity, proliferation , and adopt ion of
advanced AI.
oLastly, we recommend the hybrid approach to technology implementations of  the federal
government AI deployments which aligns the appropriate system governance and controls to the
use case needs which can occur at the edge in our localities, in multi -cloud environments where
governance maintain national sovereignty and with in centralized data centers fully secured to
ensure protection of our most sensitive data and technologies.
•Tailor -made solutions for AI in the United States
oRequest that the federal government support federal level laws, and frameworks to remove t he
patchwork of more  than  145 different state, county, and city -level laws to ensure that the United
States in consistent across its states and territories in the development of advanced AI by creating
federal legislation to preempt any state, country or city legislation which would be detrimental to the
meeting of the President’s request to sustain and enhance America’s global AI dominance .  As it
currently stands, the patchwork of state, county , and city legislation has created uncertainty for


private business and creates hurdles and challenges where the current legislation does not align 
which further slows innovation and dominance in this domain  
oRisk/Reward focus on AI governance and deployment of advanced technology.  The federal
government while exploring policy, procedures, protocols, legislation and frameworks  should
consider  the efficient gains compared to the risk of advanced AI  deployment.  For example, ther e
would be a different risk profile between battlefield advanced AI planning compared to using RAGto ge
nitively create war college policies and procedures for training new cadets in the military
academies.  While both use ca ses leverage new and novel advanced AI technologies they differ in
their potential impact on our fellow  citizens’ daily lives.  As such, we believe the federal government
should defer to national and international standards bodies as experts within the field to provide
governance and oversight based on the industry ’s combined knowledge and thought leadership.
oOpen access to trusted and known datasets for private industry to enable fair learning and trainingof advanced AI  by the refining the following four areas of federal law as it relates to intellectual
property :
§Privacy – balance privacy laws to enable the broad analytics of anonymized datasets that
do not infringe upon the individual ’s uniq uely Personal  Identifying Information (PII) and
characteristics including Personal Health Information (PHI).  Federal regulation shoul d
define anonymous data and how data treatment can protect the PII and PHI of anindividual from malicious actors while still providing the ability to derive unique insightsfrom
 public and privately held datasets augmented with AI -enabled data privacy solutions
and tooling.
§Patents  – Restoration of the first- to-invent requirement over first -to-file of patentable
inventions, ide as, or processes.  The 2011, America Invents Act significantly  changed the
US Patent and Trade Office (USPTO) process for allowing for the first -to-file to receive the
patent for novel ideas, inventions , and processes .  This allowed for patents to be filed
without a clear invention and often  from foreign actors11,12 to broadly patent obvious
inventions, ideas , and processes within the United States that have hampered and
hindered the development of advanced AI  and other related technologies.  Furthermore,
the federal government must allow for a broader Inter Partes Review program to permit
review of AI -specific patents granted in error  and  w hile most recently obviousness has
been improved , based on the US Supreme Court’s ruling in KSR Int’l Co. v. Teleflex Inc.,
550 US 398 (2007) , the federal government could further support critical improvements to
the UPSTO regarding stronger guidance emphasiz ing the importance of adopting a
flexible approach and providing a reasoned explanation when reaching a conclusionregarding the obviousness of a claimed invention.
§Copyright – strength copyright rules, to ensure that American private industry can protect
what it has created without worry that outside and foreign influences will attempt tocircumvent copyright with copycat and bootleg solutions to the detriment of the Unit ed
States and its citizens and t hen 
attempt to enter the United States market based upon
those infringements.  Fu rther, the federal government through its national laboratories
should explore the creation of trusted datasets with public access and availability toaccelerate advanced AI learning and training  on a common basis .  While fair use has
come into contest recently as it relates to AI learning and training, we recognize thatcopyright holders have created datasets and texts of value and as such should beprotected by our fede ral systems  while maintaining the United States ’ innovation  and AI
vendors and providers should only use appropriately licensed when not publicly available
or authorized datasets and texts.  We believe t he federal government should ensur e
public access to government supported research, datasets or texts and ensur
e those
items remains in the public domain and readily available.  Any previously protected
datasets and texts which have left their protected period should swiftly enter the public
domain for future innovation and the United States should consider reducing copyright
protections to a more reasonable timeframe  before such works become public domain .
§Trademarks – strengthen and strictly enforce trademark infringement to ensure that all
consumers have a clear understanding of who is providing the advanced AI solutions andensure that malicious actors who would seek to infringe upon the trademarks of pri vate
industry of the United States and our partners and allies are equally protected for ersatzcopycats and bootlegs of the hard- earned innovation of AI vendors and providers.  We
believe the federal government should strengthen the Lanham act to further penalize and
disincentivize maliced actors when it comes to trademark infringement based upon AI


advancements.  Trademarks should to the consumer remain as a pure reflection of the 
vendor  or provider of the service and should have faith that when they see such a 
trademark that is representative of that true vendor or provider and as stated by Vice 
President Vance “ ensure that American AI technology continues to be the gold standard 
worldwide ”7 
oThe federal government has already championed the  National Institute of Standards  and
Technology (NIST) and  International Organization for Standard (ISO) and must further champion
technical consensus as it leads to the development of standards and protocols related to advancedAI.  The federal government should recognize the effectiveness of national and international
standards bodies and their ability to support the development of standards and recommendedpract
ices and often are better suited than the law or policy because their members are made of the
very practitioners of the technologies in question.  The federal government acting as the First and
Foremost customer of American advanced AI can leverage its procurement processes to favorthos
e private industries which participate and follow the national and international standard making
bodies through price relief, and velocity of procurement  where the vendors  and providers  have
appropriately met the requirements of the nat ional and international standards bodies.
oWorkforce development, much like our workforce transitioned  from an analog based world to a
digital world which gave rise to the digital native  generation  of Gen Y, and Gen Z, we will be
undergoing a similar revolution where we will have AI native generations of Gen Alpha and GenBeta
13 who will treat AI much like we did the creation of the digital watch, as another tool to support
and improve the lives of our friends, family, society, and ultimately our country.   To support this
transformation and to provide our citizens with the tools necessary to navigate the cultural andtechnological changes occurring the United States will need to make the necessary investmentsinto education and post -secondary education to drive the furtherance of AI advancement and at the
same time provide off -ramps 
of usable skills and capabilities for those who do not wish to vanguard
the development of the next generation of technologies but still provide meaningful skills andcapa
bilities to positively impact our towns, states , and country through meaningful and purposeful
work.
As stated previously, TeraDact is a startup provider of advanced AI capabilities  who has worked with other nation 
states on deployment of advanced AI frameworks  and is committed  to support ing our American ideals for democratic 
and ethical AI to support our citizens, partners and allies as we enter the AI revolution.  W e believe this coming age of 
AI will lead to overall positive impacts based upon more efficient use of resources to improve the lives of our fellow 
citizens and by extension all citizens of the world will also see improvements to their daily life through the application 
of AI advancements. 
The Leadership Team  
TeraDact  
TeraDact has provided this Request For Information  and is freely available to Networking and Information Technology 
Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO), National Science Foundation  and has 
been submitted as part of the public comment and contains no propriety or confidential information and may be 
reused as seen fit to support the development of the AI Action Plan.  
1. https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/652421682548ca000dddefd8/ACE_Annual_Review_2023_update_27.09.23.pdf
2. https://pds.police.uk/police -digital -service -redaction -tool -framework -will-save -police -time/
3. http://bidstats.uk/tenders/2024/W10/818151455
4. https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2025/01/29/openai -believes -deepseek -distilled -its-data -for-training -heres -what -to-know -
about -the-technique/  
5. https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/white -house -press -release -united -states -and -united -arab -emirates -cooperation -
artiﬁcial  
6. https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential -actions/2025/01/removing -barriers -to-american -leadership -in-artiﬁcial -intelligence/
7. https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/remarks -the-vice -president -the-artiﬁcial -intelligence -action -summit -paris -france
8. https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ace -annual -review -2023 -24/ace -annual -review -2023 -4-accessible#innovation -across -
government  
9. https://www.gov.uk/government/groups/accelerated -capability -environment -ace
10. https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp -content/uploads/2024/10/M -24-18-AI-Acquisition -Memorandum.pdf
11. https://harrityllp.com/ai -titans -whos -dominating -the-patent -universe/
12. https://www.iﬁclaims.com/rankings -trends -2024.htm
13. https://cdn.openai.com/global -aQairs/openai -edu -ai-ready -workforce.pdf


