PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: February 25, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 7k-wssd-m qti
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-0946
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Brian Poissant  
General Comment
1. Hum an Oversight & Control m ust be in place for all policies, autom ation, developm ent and execution of all tasks that have AI at any
point within its process.
AI m ust always have hum an-in-the-loop system s, especially for critical decisions (e.g., healthcare, m ilitary, finance, autom ation).
Autonom ous AI m ust have clear, predefined lim its and em ergency shutoff m echanism s in place.
2. Ethical & Transparent Developm ent
AI system s m ust be explainable, m eaning hum ans m ust understand the exact thought process of how AI develops its responses.
Developers m ust follow, and be audited for strict ethical guidelines, ensuring fairness, accountability, and avoiding any trace of bias.
Independent audits of AI system s m ust be in place to prevent unintended consequences.
3. Regulation & Legal Fram eworks
All Governm ents and international bodies m ust establish clear laws on AI’s perm issible uses as a global effort.
A global AI ethics council (sim ilar to nuclear or bioethics groups) could ensure responsible developm ent, and provide an audit process for
ensuring com pliance.
Com panies m ust be required to disclose all AI risks and undergo regulatory and rigorous safety testing before deploym ent of any solution
that enables, leverages or builds on AI.
4. Lim iting AI’s Autonom y in Critical Areas
AI m ust not have any actual or virtual control over nuclear weapons, m ilitary strategy, or critical infrastructure without m ultiple hum an
intercepts.
AI m ust not be allowed or have the ability to rewrite its own core objectives (avoiding runaway AI scenarios).
5. Econom ic & Social Im pact Managem ent
Corporations and Governm ents m ust establish program s to retrain/support workers displaced by any autom ation.
AI m ust be used to enhance hum an productivity, not just replace jobs without consideration for workers.
Ensuring AI-generated wealth benefits society rather than oligarchs.
6. Cybersecurity & Defense Against Rogue AI
AI safety research m ust im m ediately focus on preventing the hacking or m isuse by m alicious actors.
Strict encryption and cybersecurity protocols m ust protect AI system s from  being m anipulated, trained, re-trained, or deployed against the
original hum an protective protocol it was deployed for.
International cooperation to prevent AI arm s races or m isuse in warfare.
7. Deploy AI strictly for general hum an population Benefit
AI developm ent m ust focus on im proving general hum an well-being, such as in m edicine, education, and environm ental protection.
Protocols m ust be in place to quantify and ensure that AI is not benefiting businesses, governm ents and corporations.
Governm ents m ust create public AI projects to ensure AI serves all of hum anity.
Corporations m ust be allowed to leverage AI for im provem ent of their operations and offerings.
Corporations m ust not be allowed to leverage AI for hum an identification, prediction of any future of any hum an, prediction or
m anipulation of any m onetary transaction, nor any "likely" diagnosis that will im pact the livlihood or well being of any hum an.


