PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-cos7-e2tb
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1515
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  ACA International
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
ACAInternationalCom m ents-AI Plan March 14


Submitted Via Regulations.gov  
March 14 , 2025 
AI Action Plan  
Attn: Faisal D'Souza  
National Coordination Offic e 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314, USA  
Re: Request for Information  on AI Action Plan  
Dear Mr. D’Souza : 
On behalf of the Association of Credit and Collection Professionals ( “ACA ” or “Association ”), I am 
writing in response to the Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence 
(AI) Action Plan  (Plan) from  Networking and Information Technology Research and Development 
(NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO), and the National Science Foundation.  This Plan, as 
directed by a Presidential Executive Order on January 23, 2025, will define the priority policy actions 
needed to sustain and enhance America's AI dominance . 
ACA  International  represents approximately  1,500 members, including credit grantors, third -party 
collection agencies, asset buyers, attorneys, and vendor affiliates, in an industry that employs more 
than 1 25,000 people worldwide. Most ACA  International  member debt collection companies are small 
businesses.  
I.Background about ACA International :
ACA International members play a critical role in protecting consumers and providing liquidity to 
lenders . ACA  International  members work with consumers to resolve their debts, which in turn saves 
every American household , on average,  more than $700 , year after year. The accounts receivable 
management ( “ARM ”) industry is instrumental in keeping America ’s credit -based economy 
functioning with access to credit at the lowest possible cost , thereby protecting one of the safety nets 
of the most vulnerable consumers in society from unplanned expenses . For example, in 2018 the ARM 


  industry returned over $90 billion to creditors for good s and services they had provided to their 
customers.  And in turn, t he ARM industry ’s collections benefit all consumers by lowering the costs of 
goods and services —especially when rising prices are impacting consumers ’ quality of life throughout 
the country.  
 
ACA International members also follow comprehensive compliance policies , are diligent about 
employing strong compliance management systems  and high ethical standards to ensure consumers 
are treated fairly  and the wide range of federal and state laws that govern collections are followed . The 
Association  contributes to this  end goal by providing timely industry -sponsored education as well as 
compliance certifications. In short, ACA  International  members are committed to assisting consumers 
as they work together to resolve their financial obligati ons, all in accord with the Collector ’s Pledge1 
that all consumers are treated with dignity and respect.  
 
II. Comments  
 
ACA is pleased to offer the following comments  on Plan for AI:  
 
The Use of AI in the ARM Industry is Consumer Friendly  
 
One key use of AI in the ARM  industry is to allow consumers to access the information  and certain 
services  they need when it is most convenient for them, which often  is outside of normal business 
hours.  This is especially critical for people with disabilities  who may prefer using technology to interact 
with a business to get the information that they need  or complete a payment, for example . Similarly, 
allowing companies to use technologies powered by AI to permit consumers to get the information  or 
services  they need in off -peak hours is essential in providing  more flexibility to people working in the 
service industry, for example, who may not have the option  to make a 15 -minute phone call from their 
desk while they are at work . While these types of services are commonplace today, in many cases AI 
technologies are  the underpinning for the back end  of these systems. The Plan should reflect these 
beneficial use -cases.  
 
Robust Compliance with Consumer Protection, Privacy, and Data Security Laws  is Already 
Required  
 
Admittedly, some consumers  may find it unsettling to interact with AI systems, especially when they 
have grown accustomed to the personal touch of human interaction and empathy. We believe this 
requires a tailored  approach  that takes this into consideration . AI systems rely on large amounts of 
borrower personal data, raising concerns about data privacy, confidentiality, and identity theft issues.  
Importantly, ACA members are subject to dozens of consumer protection, privacy, and data security 
related laws and regulations. They are r equired to comply with these laws and regulations at the state 
and federal level, and they are further enforced through private litigation. As such, while the re are 
practical concerns  about the safety of data and information , the robust regulatory environment that 
ACA members are already subject to, fully address es these concerns. ACA members must, and do, 
comply with all compliance requirements in the region they are operating in.  
 
1 Collectors Pledge states that ACA members • believe every person has worth as an individual. • believe every person 
should be treated with dignity and respect. • will make it their responsibility to help consumers find ways to pay their just 
debts. • will be professional and ethical.  • will commit to honoring this pledge.  


  Indeed, AI can also significantly enhance compliance in consumer communications by ensuring 
systematic adherence to regulatory requirements without relying on human consistency. Unlike manual 
processes, AI -driven systems operate with precision, applying standardiz ed policies and procedures 
across all interactions. This reduces the risk of human error, bias, or lapses in compliance due to 
oversight. In the accounts receivable management industry, for example, AI can be leveraged to 
monitor all consumer commu nication quality by analyzing interactions for adherence to legal and 
regulatory requirements, such as ensuring appropriate disclosures and respectful engagement. AI -
driven automation also enables organizations to maintain detailed records of compliance -related 
actions, facilitating audits and regulatory reporting. By embedding compliance checks directly into 
workflows, AI helps organizations uphold regulatory requirements efficiently, ensuring that consumers 
receive accurate, timely, and fair communication s every time.  
 
Definition of AI  
 
The definition of AI should not be overly broad . The White House and federal regulatory agencies 
must work closely with industry to garner data and research to understand the impacts of regulation 
before moving forward.  Today, ACA  members are using AI for a variety of beneficial uses for 
consumers, including call analytics. Any framework to regulate the use of AI in the United States 
should be risk -based and focus on mitigating potential harms to consumers and should not focus on 
back-end processes that all ow businesses to run more efficiently. Federal agencies, such as the 
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, should also not be announcing sweeping changes to these 
processes through blog posts or through other means outside the Administrative Procedure Act and 
process, because not only is this unlawful but it also will not provide the public the benefit of sharing 
comments that can inform policymaking . Instead, it will stymie innovation  for consumer -friendly 
technological improvements . 
 
A lot of the tools that get swept under the “ AI moniker ,” particularly in the ARM industry,  are simply  
interactive program s to provide information to consumer s based on information already programmed 
into internal  system s. Often,  technology is simply querying data from a programmed  system and 
providing that to the consumer in response to the consumer’s request.  These programs are not making 
decisions on their own, but rather following programmed procedures.  This type of communication 
should be embraced and promoted, since it will lead to more similar outcomes for consumers , as 
opposed to leaving it up to individual employee judgment s, which  can var y. This type of consistency 
benefits consumers.  
 
Machine Learning is Not AI  
 
AI technologies have improved the capabilities of ACA  members in a way that benefits consumers, 
and the AI Plan  should reflect that. For example, call analytics can be considered a form of AI since 
they are based on machine learning. These technologies have allowed us to reach a higher volume of 
consumers more efficiently, thereby allowing ACA  member companies  to just as  efficiently share the 
information consumers  need  about their financial health as well  steps on how to address any issues or 
make payments more quickly . Additionally, robotics process automation is also commonplace in the 
ARM  industry and has driven efficiency gains, therefore it should not be considered a form of AI or 
regulated by the government in any way.  
 


Additionally, the AI Plan  should consider  how AI will be used for fraud. For example, how should an 
ACA  member company respond if someone is using a consumer ’s voiceprint to access our systems to 
commit fraud? Most examples in this instance have focused on fraudulent calls to a consumer, but little 
attention has been paid to someone using a voiceprint to impersonate a consumer to interact with a 
company with wh ich they are doing business. These types of issues are within the scope of the Plan 
and should be given full and fair consideration.  
Thank you for your attention and due consideration. Please let me know if you have any questions.  
Scott Purcell  
Chief Executive Officer  
On behalf of ACA Internati onal 


