PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-pv87-juq8
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2749
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Jeremy Allen
General Comment
AI has m ostly been used as a m eans of theft of im agery and inform ation without consent for artists, m usicians, and otherwise unrelated
individuals, and m akes key inform ation & research m ore needlessly difficult. This Executive Order only serves to m ake the country worse
than it already has been, such as using up m ore energy & resources than needed, allow scam m ers and bots to persist, severely dam ages
any real m eans of education, and increasing the chances of putting privacy & cybersecurity in jeopardy. The only people who really
benefit from  this are tech people and com panies who continue to overestim ate AI's effectiveness in spite of the growing negativity and
backlash, not to m ention that it's been used to avoid paying actual working citizens. It's highly probable that it'll also be used as a weapon
against countries without the m eans of AI or are as technologically advanced, severing lim iting trust with other countries and governm ents.
The reason there's been specific codes and program s designed to slow down or outright ruin AI m odels is because an increasingly higher
am ount of people outright despite what AIs been doing for the past few years. Please start being an actual governm ent instead of letting
faceless m achines do it for you.
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be 
reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.


