PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-ycwr-angx
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4970
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
While generative Ai has had useful application in science, such as cell research, it does not need to be able to recreate im ages, video,
writing, coding, speech, or m usic.
Copyright exists to protect creatives and their work, as such, taking their work and copying it is plagiarism . Though these are not item s
that cannot be copyright-able, it still takes m oney away from  creatives by offering a cheap im itation of their hard earned work for less
m oney and effort. This would cause m ore econom ic problem s of artists of all kinds, no m atter how wealthy they are. This also does not
prevent people from  generating im ages, video, m usic, code, etc and claim ing whatever they m ade isn't m ade by Ai.
There is already no consent when som ebody decides to take an im age and im itate it through Ai. Actual protections are already lim ited and
have already been subject to plenty of lawsuits over Ai's legality for the lack of protections. All that would be accom plished by endorsing
it would be the USA Governm ent inviting m ore lawsuits that would take up precious tim e and m oney.
On top of everything stated, with generative Ai m odels like Deep Seek, that are free, the bubble for generative Ai has burst. Attem pting to
revive it now by handing it m aterials the USA has protected to the letter of the law up until now is a huge m istake. Com panies just want to
trick and use the governm ent for hand outs that will go up in sm oke and disappear with these com panies that cannot stay afloat. By
disregarding the law to allow this failing business venture to survive just a little bit longer, the USA will underm ine its own legal authority.
With how the state of USA's judicial branch is in, is it a good idea to keep bending it even further? This branch of the governm ent is very
im portant, and if it were to break, the USA Governm ent will lose all authority it has over its citizens and its standing with other sim ilar
nations.
To sum m arize, this is a bad idea that ignores the law and will only end in judicial failure and lawsuits from  som e of the biggest com panies
within the United States of Am erica. Reject.


