PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-h5m y-m s7j
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2103
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
I am  strongly opposed to the developm ent of this AI action plan. It would be highly detrim ental to sm all businesses and artisans which I'm
confident the current adm inistration has little interest in, so to give you incentives you actually care about, AI is full of erroneous data. One
need sim ply look at the drastic decline in the quality of Google search results which are often full of factually incorrect inform ation to see
this is ill advised.
Furtherm ore, pursuing AI would open up corporations looking to exploit trained data to their own copyrighted assets being exploited and
beyond this, consum ers trust AI based products less. Dogan Gursoy, the author of a study into AI products (see:
https://www.tandfonline.com /doi/full/10.1080/19368623.2024.2368040) said "In every single case, whenever we m entioned 'AI' vs 'high
tech', consum ers' purchase intention went down."
The white house site says "With the right governm ental policies, continued U.S. AI leadership will prom ote hum an flourishing, econom ic
com petitiveness, and national security." but the current adm inistration could not possibly be m ore poorly equipped to handle such
aspirations without negative consequence. As previously stated, consum ers often avoid AI based products, there is no econom ic
com petitiveness to be gained. And the idea of basing national security on AI is dangerously ludicrous.
AI search results have suggested m aking pizza with glue, eating rocks for nutritional health confusing satire for genuine advice, and m ixing
chlorine bleach with white vinegar in laundry which creates toxic gases. What dom inance could we possibly derive in national security
from  system s that can't tell the difference between legitim ate m edical advice and jokes posted by Reddit users?
All of this on top of Elon Musk chaotically stam peding through our governm ent like a blindfolded bull through a china shop with incredibly
obvious bias, this adm inistration is wholly incapable of scrutinizing or drafting AI policies with an intelligent and im partial eye.
If none of this persuades your self preservation to activate, consider the OceanGate disaster because the people trying to sell us all on AI
dom inance are the sam e people that will send you to the bottom  of the ocean in an im ploding subm arine controlled by a logitech gam epad.
In short, the inaccuracies in AI and ram pant public distrust are far m ore likely to dam age econom ic com petitiveness and national security
than com e anywhere close to prom oting "hum an flourishing".


