PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-f2b3-clzj
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1553
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Brian Dang 
General Comment
I am  a photographer. I have stopped uploading photos to m y own instagram  because Meta has not allowed m e to opt m y im ages out of
their dataset for their 'AI'. Com panies like Meta, OpenAI, and Google should not be allowed to use m y artwork for their own profit. My
artwork is a product of MY labor, and if the corporations wish to use it, they will need to com pensate m e for a license. Anything short of
that is theft.
OpenAI and Google claim  that it is a national security risk if they are not allowed to use m y copyrighted work in their 'AI' m odel. This is
untrue. Generative 'AI' technology itself is ALREADY a national security risk:
1. Generative 'AI' technology is now the leading source of disinform ation according to Google's own researcher. (Source:
https://www.404m edia.co/google-says-ai-now-leading-disinform ation-vector-and-is-severely-undercounting-the-problem /)
2. Generative 'AI' technology has caused deepfake nudes of m inors to spread in high schools. (Source: https://www.404m edia.co/what-
was-she-supposed-to-report-police-report-shows-how-a-high-school-deepfake-nightm are-unfolded/)
3. Generative 'AI' technology enables scam m ers to create m ore convincing scam s than ever before. (Source:
https://www.404m edia.co/joe-rogan-taylor-swift-andrew-tate-ai-deepfake-youtube-m edicare-ads/)
I am  asking the White House to deny com panies like OpenAI and Google from  using m y copyrighted work in the datasets for their 'AI'. I
am  asking the White House to put a stop to generative 'AI' technologies if they wish to m inim ize an actual national security risk.


