PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-115y-6hkj
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7376
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Yasmine 
Span gler  Email: 
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan Com m ent


March 15, 2025
From:
Yasmine Spangler
Student/Freelance Artist
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for In formation o n the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) A ction Plan
I am a n everyday American who is currently working to enter th e entertainment/VFX industry, 
and who is already well on h er wa y to jo ining th is industry, which provide s jobs and taxable 
revenue to this country. While I recognize that AI can be a potent and p owerful tool, I urge t his 
administr ation to carefully consider the consequences to eroding co pyright protections on th e 
work that I and thousands of other a rtists create for t he sa ke of developing A I tools. Without the 
work of artists, the growth of AI tools is limited, and AI models will ultimately be damaged as 
less high-quality data is m ade wi th which to train them. The answer to this problem is not to 
give A I systems u nfettered access to content, but to strengthen t he rights and abilities o f 
artists to license their work to AI systems a nd defend the use of their work by those not 
permitted to use it.
AI systems can o nly be produced b y first training on work made by people. The wo rk of 
hundreds o f thousands o f other e veryday American cr eators h as been t aken and fed into these 
AI systems, often without consent or any compensation. This is a dire ct attack on those who rely 
on th at same wo rk to support themselves and th eir families. Now these Big Tech companie s are 
asking this administration to create exceptions and loopholes to make this practice of stealing 
American creators’ copyrighted wo rk legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a machine 
ingests and reproduces copyrighted wo rk, it is somehow suddenly “fair u se”. They claim th at if 
this administration does not allow them t o rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American 
innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect . The purpose of American c opyright law is to 
protect t he in centive t o create and innovate, and without new materia l, an AI model 
cannot create n ew ideas.
Copyright is an agreement between the government and those wh o create, giving them the 
power to profit on their work. What does a n erosion of these r ights represent? What does it 
mean if these rights can b e handed over b y a government to whomever they p lease for 
whatever p urpose they want? If people do not own th eir creations, and e verything the y put 
online will be stolen b y Big Tech g iants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday 
Americans create a new innovative piece o f computer co de, a new visual design, or a n ew piece 
of music only to h ave it immediately stolen b y Google a nd Microsoft, why bother cr eating it in 
the first place? Ho w will we possibl y make a living doing these th ings? Moreover, without new 
data to train itse lf on, any attemp t at “AI dominance” o n the world’s stage will b e delayed, if not 


self-cannibalized. There is already a crisis in model training where good-quality trainable data is 
being overwhelmed with AI-generated content. Getting rid of the incentives for Americans to 
create will only exacerbate this issue.
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and 
everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency. Rather, give 
creators the tools to cooperate with Big Tech on their own terms and prosecute those 
who use their data without permission.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
●First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
●Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that
the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense
economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original
creators, not just Big Tech.
●Third, give American creators better powers and abilities to assert their copyright. By
handing over the keys for an AI company to use American-made content without
permission, you empower global competitors just as much as you empower
American-made AI solutions.  The current system in the courts around resolving
copyright disputes is antiquated and overly expensive, and doesn’t have any power to
target foreign adversaries that use their data.
●Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what
content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of 
thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law without also 
regarding the rights of the people who make copyrighted content. In essence, the answer to 
this tragedy of the commons is to protect the grass, not to let the cows run amok.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


