PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-vom 2-wykd
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3633
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Justin Nealis
Em ail:  
General Comment
The technology industry has a long history of preem pting any regulations that m ay stifle its opportunistic growth, and AI is sim ply the latest
in a long string of dubious fads it's em braced in the pursuit of said growth. These system s already consum e inordinate am ounts of energy,
fresh water, and real estate, all to provide highly questionable utility, inconsistent (and often flat-out wrong) output, and no profit
whatsoever; it's a gam e of chicken, where they're hoping we (the taxpayers) will blink before they're forced to reconcile with the costs and
(lack of) returns on investm ents.
Som ething Am erica has always been a cham pion of is intellectual property rights. If you write an award-winning novel, you're entitled to
the proceeds. If you create a hit piece of m usic, you're entitled to the proceeds. If you create a new product, a popular m ovie, a hit TV
Show, or a revolutionary m edicine, you're entitled to the proceeds of your work. It's a fundam ental law that has m ade Am erica the global
epicenter of culture, m edia, and creativity. What these AI com panies have done is build their products off the infinite creativity and labor
of Am ericans and hum ans all over the world, all throughout history, to build glorified prediction m achines they claim  can replace labor and
revolutionize hum anity - yet have presently done neither, after several years of existence and availability. These m odels relied on the largest
organized theft in hum an history, stealing m usic, books, m ovies, stories, news articles, paintings, and m ore, without a single cent paid to
their creators or perm ission ever asked for. Now they seek forgiveness for this theft after the fact, instead of proper perm ission and
licensing for the data they used before engaging in theft. They seek to m anipulate the US Governm ent into granting this forgiveness under
the guise of "National Security", despite a com plete lack of such a threat.
Granting these com panies their desire to ignore copyright laws would single-handedly doom  the Am erican econom y and cripple our
already-tattered global reputation. Hollywood would disappear, unable to trust Am erica to uphold its investm ent into film s and television.
Copyright enforcem ent would shift from  Am erica to other countries, further weakening our global hegem ony and letting them  set the rules
that we'll have to abide by. In fact, granting these com panies a perm ission to steal effectively places us in the sam e cohort as China,
another country that routinely fails to respect intellectual property rights and steals from  Am erican creators.
If these AI com panies truly cannot exist without these large sources of inform ation, and if their products are truly as valuable as they claim ,
then they can easily afford to license the works used in training from  the original creators, at whatever rates the creators dem and. The
harsh reality is that these products aren't profitable, and aren't valuable, and that holding these com panies accountable for their original
thefts would bankrupt them  - not just in Am erica, but globally as well.
The right thing to do is to protect the talent that m akes the Am erican econom y so great and diverse in the first place, that m akes it the
creative capitol of the world that everyone seeks to replicate and copy. If that m eans bankrupting AI com panies through onerous
copyright penalties for using stolen content, then so be it - because at least then, we're forcing everyone to play on the sam e field as us,
rather than gladly surrendering our creativity to others.
Reject the tech industry's attem pt to gut Am erica in the nam e of an unproven fad. Protect copyright, and protect the people.


