PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 88-rsb0-uiz1
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1315
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Kerem Erdinc 
General Comment
AI without rigid protections is a liability, not an asset. In this entirely unregulated space, it is a breeding ground for extrem e energy
consum ption, entire industries being wiped out, the devolution of art, intellectual property theft, likenesses being used without consent, and
the creation of false narratives to a crim inal degree. 
This is clearly being done at the behest of the largest com panies in the space, and what these corporate AI backers fail to realize is what
data they can steal to enhance their AI’s can be stolen right back. There would be no enforceable ownership over anything, no ability for
an average citizen to com bat likeness, voice, or data theft without fighting these m assive corporations in a scorched earth legal battle.
Which is why it is the governm ent’s absolute responsibility to regulate a space so clearly steeped in corruption. There is no two ways
about it. Any and all AI data m ust be provided with the explicit consent of any intellectual property holders, or perform ers.
People are entitled to their talents and skills, I along with everyone else deserves the autonom y to choose where their skills and talents can
be applied, it is no different than deciding whether I choose to use m y voice to becom e a voice actor, or m y analytical m ind to becom e an
accountant. Nobody has the right to steal m y talent or skillset I cultivated to line the pockets of corporations running a race in the next grift
since NFT’s fizzled out. 
If the United States governm ent chooses not to take the threat of AI seriously, AI will not just harm  the citizens of this country the
governm ent is sworn to protect, but also the corporate m asters of industry pushing for this nonsense in ways they are too short sighted to
com prehend.


