PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-wf2d-vkkx
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3879
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
I do not want nor believe AI com panies should have the ability to access and use copyrighted m aterial to train on. It com pletely
disrespects the intellectual protections artists and creatives are prom ised as well as their tim e, hard work and expertise. It is a flagrant
attem pt by genAI com panies to bypass the com m itm ent and skill building that all artists and creatives invest in, in order to create the visual
art, design, m usic, photography, film , etc. that we all engage with everyday. No artist’s work and style should be able to be sham elessly
copied by a m achine and used by com panies to shirk paying the people whose skills have been stolen. And to be frank, at best, AI excels
at quantity over quality. But there is a point at which quantity holds little value and I have watched in disappointm ent as genAI floods the
internet with content that holds none of the joy of hum an connection and understanding, nor any true m astery of artistic technique. Instead,
it has begun to clog up the places that once m ade real artist’s work accessible, instead burying it in piles of poor im itations. And what a
disservice to the pride, joy, and hum an truths that real art and artists bring to our com m unities. In actuality, those who use genAI in this
way should be punished for their flagrant stealing, willful ignorance of artists’ copyright protections and underhanded, deliberately sneaky,
changes in online agreem ents m ade to bypass artists intellectual protections. For the sake of yourselves and the people you represent, do
not allow these com panies to convince you that their soulless slop is worth the betrayal of the real people and artists you represent.


