PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1fps-v1fd
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7426
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Dirge Truptor
General Comment
Deregulating AI in hopes of gaining som e kind of geopolitical advantage is a fool's errand. The slurry of m eaning-adjacent noise it
generates only produces the illusion of understanding where none exists; to em ploy it for anything other than entertaining children is to
invite disaster. Even this degrades the intelligence of the public - I have personally seen a business advertise itself with a sign depicting a
six-fingered wom an, and the proprietors seem ed to think nothing of it. Datacenters consum e im m ense am ounts of energy, release yet m ore
heat into an already warm ing clim ate (whether this adm inistration wants to adm it it or not), require vast am ounts of strategic m inerals in the
form  of hardware that will be quickly outm oded and discarded, all to support an unprofitable, useless gim m ick. Whatever apparent utility
AI has depends on training data that is untainted by other AI-generated data, and like m icroplastics in our blood it will eventually becom e
so ubiquitous that the output of these system s degrades even further. Years of claim s that a revolution was in progress have produced no
killer apps, no im provem ent in quality of life, no sustainable revenue stream , and no m eaningful advantage over conventional technologies.
To vitiate Am erican copyright law, already under assault by foreign adversaries, in the service of this m echanical Turk that has deceived
the gullible in power would perhaps be the final nail in the coffin of Am erican greatness. This is to say nothing of the inhum anity of
replacing living, breathing people with skills honed over lifetim es of experience with autom atons that crudely im m itate them  - but I wonder
if that even m atters to those m aking the decision. It's not woke to want hum ans to shape the world we live in rather than believing
whatever the m achines tell us. When the NIH has been defunded, AI will not find the cure for Alzheim ers. When the desk jockeys have
been fired, AI will not be able to figure out how any of these byzantine system s actually worked. When decision m akers have to ask
ChatGPT what will happen next on the global stage, China and Iran will still have people with hum an will and wit aim ing their m issiles.
Deregulating AI will not m ake Am erica great again, it will not prom ote prosperity for Am erican fam ilies, it will not benefit Am erican
businesses, it won't own the libs, it will just m ake the world worsw for no reason. Don't do that.


