PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2pwc-ni3w
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8516
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Jingna Zhang  
Email: 
General Comment
I’m  a fashion photographer whose work has appeared in Vogue, Elle, Harper's Bazaar, and Tim e's 100 Most Influential People list, and I
was able to choose this career path because I knew that copyright protection existed, and that it would allow m e to build a sustainable
living through the ability to license m y work. 
With photography, I often created projects for fine art explorations without pay, other tim es, I accepted the low fees for m agazines and
editorial work, because I know that I can still license the work again later. Copyright is the crucial factor that m ade pursuing art
professionally viable for m e as a career.
But for over two years now, generative AI com panies have used copyrighted works without perm ission or com pensation to creatives.
While the EU, China, and South Korea have taken steps to address this issue, the United States—hom e to the world's largest m edia and
entertainm ent industry—has provided little clarity on this unauthorized usage.
Today, we’re seeing AI com panies lobby for fair use exceptions for AI training. It feels like I’m  watching the dism antling of the very
foundations that have enabled creative professions to exist in Am erica. This shortsightedness threatens not just individual artists, but
Am erica's dom inance in creative industries itself.
The U.S. creative industry contributes $1.1 trillion to the US econom y—4.3% of GDP. The m edia and entertainm ent sector, at $649
billion, is 23% of the entire world’s M&E industry. It was the result of long-standing copyright protections that allowed creators to build
sustainable careers, and let com panies develop valuable intellectual property knowing that their work is safe from  unauthorized use. 
If we look back only a couple decades, China struggled with a reputation for its lack of sufficient copyright protection, which caused m any
com panies to avoid doing business in China. It's only after the copyright reform  that global luxury brands started entering the m arket en
m asse. 
The US now risks facing a sim ilar reputation shift, but in reverse. If creator's rights are eroded, I can only foresee that top talents will
gravitate towards m oving to countries with stronger copyright and protection for their work. And ironically, since AI com panies view
creative works as "training data," this m igration could actually result in higher-quality 'data' flowing to other regions, ones that better
protect creators' rights. 
To be clear, this isn't about preventing AI developm ent or progress—it’s about ensuring creators have the fundam ental right to choose
how their work is used—the sam e choice that has been at the core of copyright protection and enabled creative professions and the US'
arts industry to dom inate the world and flourish. 
The com m on argum ent that respecting copyright in AI developm ent is "technically infeasible" doesn't really hold up to scrutiny. We already
have system s m anaging vast am ounts of content and rights:
- YouTube's Content ID processes billions of videos and identifies copyrighted m aterial 
- DMCA system s can track unauthorized usage across billions of web pages
* Apps like Shazam  can identify songs from  m ere seconds of an audio


* Im age recognition system s like Google Lens can identify copies of an artwork across the web with high accuracy
* Getty Im ages m anages licensing for over 440 m illion digital assets
* Financial system s process billions of transactions per m onth, and services for taxes, banking, and insurance deal with hundreds of
m illions of users
These technologies prove that attribution, licensing, and paym ent system s are in fact, feasible. The specific tools for AI content
perm issions and licensing m ay not yet exist, but claim ing it's im possible for trillion-dollar com panies really strains credibility.
From  a non-art, purely tech and business point of view from  m y tim e working in technology and platform s used by m illions of users—a
copyright-friendly environm ent won’t be what hinders AI developm ent—it rather has the potential to strengthen it by providing legally
licensed, high-quality m edia. This approach would reduce friction, prevent creative industry erosion, and m aintain the entertainm ent and
arts sectors that drive Am erican cultural influence globally through Hollywood, m usic, and gam ing.


