PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-x1qe-iqx4
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4172
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
The AI system s m ade by tech com panies like OpenAI or Google will, with their recent dem and to create special carve outs in copyright
law, destroy thousands of Am erican sm all businesses and ruin the ability for Am erican artists to continue to succeed.
AI system s rely on training on work m ade by people. My unique work, and the work of every other everyday Am erican creator who has
posted works - written, visual, audio, or otherwise - was taken and fed into these AI system s without our consent or com pensation. They
ingest our work, reassem ble it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly com peting and cutting us out.
Now these tech com panies are asking for exceptions and loopholes to m ake this practice of stealing Am erican creators’ copyrighted
work legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a m achine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is som ehow suddenly “fair use”.
Their belief that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim  that if they
are not allowed to, it will stifle Am erican innovation.
It will have the opposite effect; the purpose of Am erican copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate. If individuals do
not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by tech giants, what will be the incentive to create?
If everyday Am ericans create a new innovative piece of com puter code, a new visual design, or a new piece of m usic only to have it
im m ediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly m ake a living doing these
things?
Protect Am erican creators to protect Am erican innovation. Do not create new copyright exem ptions that allow tech com panies to exploit
and steal from  creators and everyday Am ericans without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency. This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan
should focus not on giving away creator content to tech com panies. The governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans
give effective consent, so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI system s. The plan should encourage a robust
licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is preserved. Our work has im m ense econom ic value, so the
value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just tech com panies. Finally, the AI Action Plan should require
transparency from  tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their training datasets, and label AI generated content
clearly.
I am  not anti-technology or anti-AI - I work in tech and rely on it for m y creative processes. I am  consistently im pressed by the
capabilities of m any AI system s, but we should not sacrifice the hard work of thousands of Am ericans and give it away to tech com panies
by rewriting copyright law in this m anner.


