PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-fxm f-1m 8d
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1581
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Songwriters Guild of Am erica, the Society of Com posers & Lyricists, and the US Mem bers of Music Creators North
Am erica
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
FINAL AI Action Plan Com m ents to Trum p Adm inistration


AI ACTION PLAN COMMENTS  
Regarding the Executive Order  14179 Issued On January 23, 2025  by President Donald J. 
Trump titled :  “Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence ”1  
Submitted Pursuant to Federal Register Notice 90 FR 90882 (Request for Information) by:  
The Songwriters Guild of America, the Society of Composers & Lyricists, and the United 
States’ affiliate members of Music Creators North America (as listed at the conclusion of 
these Comments )  
AGENCY:  Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) , 
National Coordination Office (NCO), National Science Foundation (NSF)  
Date of Submission: March 14, 2025  
NOTICE: This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  
I. Introduction
The following Comments are respectfully submitted by the signatory organizations Songwriters 
Guild of America,3 the Society of Composers & Lyricists,4 and the United States affiliate 
members of Music Creators North America (MCNA) (listed at the conclusion of these 
Comments ). Together, these groups represent and advocate on behalf of hundreds of thousands 
of independent songwriters, composers and lyricists located with in the United States and 
elsewhere .5 
At the outset, we wish  to thank  the Trump Administration for the opportunity to present these 
Comments . The advance ment  of artificial intelligence  is an issue already having a profound 
bearing  not only on the American and global economies , but as pertains to  music, also on our 
Nation’s crucial ability to influence political, cultural  and economic issues around the world  to 
the great benefit of US national security .   
We enthusiastically agree that that our Nation  needs to “define priority policy actions to enhance 
America’s position as an AI powerhouse and prevent unnecessarily burdensome requirements from 
1 https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential -actions/2025/01/removing -barriers -to-american -leadership -in-
artificial -intelligence/   
2 https://www.nitrd.gov/request -for-information -on-the-development -of-an-artificial -intelligence -ai-action -plan/  
3 https://www.songwritersguild.com/site/index.php   
4 https://thescl.com/   
5 A full Statement of Interest regarding each of these parties is included in Section IV  of these Comments.  


 2 hindering private sector innovation.” We are likewise committed , however,  to demonstrating that this 
goal can and must be achieved without harm or hindrance to the most robust economic and culturally 
influential music se ctor in world history  --one which the United States of America created from the 
ground up that has continued to flourish for well over a century and counting.  
 
The enormous importance of safeguarding American artistic creativity and its resulting 
intellectual property  output  (including musical compositions and recordings) in the age of 
generative  artificial intelligence  (GenAI)  cannot be overstated , even as the US simultaneously 
constructs a program to engender  world leadership in the AI technology sphere . In that regard, 
our message is a simple one: In order for our country to thrive in a radically new, hybrid 
landscape  combining  human creativity  and AI technology , we must seek  not only to encourage 
technological innovation , but also support  the continuation of America’s nearly complete 
dominance in the creation and export of the music that the world loves like no other.    
 
We are absolu tely convinced that it  is within our capacity as Americans to thrive in this dual role 
–provided we have the will and commitment to do so .  
To begin , we wish to underline some  important points  concerning this two-track strategy f or the 
purposes of making  our positions  explicitly clear:  
First, o ur organizations fully embrac e the use of AI technology when used in the hands of human 
creators as tools  to further the advance ment  of mu sical culture. We applaud the  adoption and 
careful, human -curated use of AI innovations by songwriters, composers and recording artists to 
advance the art and craft of music creation and production, and welcome new AI advances that 
will give human creators increasingly greater ability to e xpress their talents and genius .   
To further clarify, however, we also hold the f ully consistent position  that certain unlicense d 
GenAI uses of music as described in these comments  must be promptly identified, addressed and 
corrected under law . We have developed several specific suggestion s as to how address  such 
concerns , and to avoid  the inevitable damage that will flow from wholly unregulated GenAI 
activities . We are pleased to outline  these ideas  below .   
Second, as previously stated, we ask that the Administration  take careful  note with pride of an 
important  consideration  so deeply rooted in American cultural and economic history that its 
extraordinary  nature is often overlooked.  That is, music creation is one of those elements that 
literally defines American exceptionalism. Solely in terms of hard numbers, the US music 
industry contributes well over an enormous $200 billion annually to the US Gross National 
Product (GDP), supporting some 2.5 million jobs and over 250,000 music venues and 
establishment s.6  But even those eye-opening statistics tell only part of the story  of the economic 
and cultural engine that is American music .   
For well over an entire century, American music has utterly dominated  the world music market, 
influencing the people of other nations  around the world to admire and often adopt a pro -
American style and world -view, both musically and culturally. The historically unique , melting -
pot phenomenon of American music acting as one of our country’s most effective ambassadors 
 
6 https://www.musqetf.com/posts/music -is-outperforming -the-us-economy   


3 of good will and economic advantage has inarguably led to gigantic enhancements in the US 
balance of trade, and paid even greater dividends by spreading American culture and commerce 
across the world to the benefit of hundreds of other US business sectors.  Such overwhelming  and 
longstanding , positive effects cannot be forgotten, and surely must not be permitted to be 
undermined by complete, de facto deregulation that enables or even encourages grossly unfair, 
unlicensed  GenAI uses  of our music  without prope r consent, credit and compensation . 
From the time s that the musical giants of New Orleans spread ragtime  across America  in the late 
19th century , to the day that  renown American orchestra leader Lt. James Reese Europe stepped 
off a US troop ship in World War I France with his 369th Harlem Hellcats band and introduced 
the new jazz idio m to Europe, right up to last year’s published studies showing that in 2024 nine 
out of ten of the world’s most popular musical recordings were still American in origin,7 US 
music has uninterruptedly been synonymous with cultural and financial excellence.   
Even at the height of music’s  famous  “British Invasion” of the mid -1960s  led by the Beatles and 
Rolling Stones , the members of both English bands and most of their global contemporaries 
readily admitted that their artistic inspirations were near -totally US in origin . Another half 
century or more later, conversations of musical composition and performance virtuosity still 
begin and often end with nods to the heroes of American  blues, gospel, swing, rock and roll, 
soul, pop, country, western,  Broadway, Hollyw ood, hip-hop and even the classical works of 
Gershwin, Copland, Bernstein , Ellington , and other American musical idols .  
This level of unprecedented, long -term popularity in the global music marketplace is a point  of 
enormous satisfaction and inspiration  to our organizations , and stands as a towering  tribute to our 
country ’s cultural contributions to the world  as a whole . In sum, i t is axiomatic that t he 
uniqueness of the American musical melting pot in creating perhaps the greatest golden age of 
music since the epoch  of Mozart and Beethoven must not be permitted to be eclipsed by GenAI 
technology.   Rather, w e must forge ways for new technologies  –including GenAI -- to advance 
symbiotically with human -created musical arts in America as a hallmark of this new era, s o that 
all of the benefits of American ingenuity in art, science, and commerce can simultaneously 
continue to flourish around the globe.   
II. Discussion
For purposes of developing these C omments, the submitting organizations have adopt ed the 
following definition of “GenAI”  as recently published  by the Congressionally -charte red Nationa l 
Music Council of the United States : 
 GenAI systems  [are defined] as machine -based content generators that are artificially 
“trained ” on a set of ingested, often copyright -protected data to find patterns within that 
data, and thereafter to generate additional content based upon such data (including text, 
7 https://themusicnetwork.com/america -dominates -ifpi-best -selling -singles -chart -2024/  


4 image, video, audio, multimedia, or other forms of output) pursuant to a given set of 
human -defined or machine -derived objectives or “ prompts .” 
Obviously, such GenAI systems pose an existential danger to the sustainability of human -
centric creation on both a cultural and financial basis if left wholly unregulated.  Legal 
issues including matters of consent, credit, and compensation are just a few of the aspects 
of GenAI ingestion, manipulation and output that need to be expeditiously clarified and 
resolved before GenAI systems become even more ubiquitous, and a threat to the 
viability of music as an important cultural artform, as a major contributo r to the US 
economy and balance of trade, and as the basis for sustaining the ability of all persons in 
music community value chain to earn a living.8 
The existential nature of the threat posed by GenAI to the livelihoods of songwriters , composers 
and musical artists as referenced above is as easily demonstrable as it is  obvious . According to a 
recent study conducted by the PMP Strategy  company on behalf of the global copyright group 
CISAC,  GenAI -derived  music will by 2028 likely have displaced and/or usurped $16 billion  in 
royalty revenues that otherwise would have accrued to human music creators and their 
assignees.9 The foreign music creator organization s SACEM (France) and GEMA (Germany) 
reached nearly identical conclusions  in their recent joint study , which prognosticates that 
generative AI could cut into 30% of digital revenue, 22% of TV and radio revenue and 22% of 
compositions played in public by the end of the decade or sooner unless new licensing and 
royalty regimes are put in place.10 These figures are further supported by the Fair Trade Music 
International White Paper Report (sponsored in part by MCNA) and published in September, 
2024.11 
According to CISAC president Björn Ulvaeus, one of the world’s most successful song writers 
and recording artists and a former member of the superstar band ABBA  (as quoted by journalist 
Robert Levine) , “there’s no way we can or should stand against AI — it can be a wonderful 
tool.”  “But,” Ulvaeus  adds in harmony with the views of the independent music creator 
community, “c reators should be at the neg otiating table…. The success of AI isn’t based on 
public content — it’s based on copyrighted works. We need t o negotiate a  fair deal….  That’s 
only possible if generative AI companies are required to license the rights to ingest works, which 
by definition involves copying them. ”12  
III. The Framework for a Legislative Solution
With all of these statistics and opinions in mind, our organizations have spent considerable time 
developing what we believe is a blueprint for developing a leg al framework that will provide full 
protections to music creators (thus helping to preserve America’s extraordinary cultural 
8 https://www.musiccouncil.org/   
9 https://www.billboard.com/pro/will -generative -ai-become -creator -terminator/   
10 https://www.billboard.com/pro/will -generative -ai-become -creator -terminator/   
11 https://www.fairtrademusicinternational.org/ftmi -releases -legal -analysis -white -paper -proposing -a-new -right -
for-generative -ai/  
12 See, https://www.billboard.com/pro/will -generative -ai-become -creator -terminator/   


 5 leadership  throughout the world ) while enabling technologists to gain access to the musical 
works they desire to utilize at fair market value (thus propelling American technology forward  at 
a pace to lead the global AI sector) .   
Our proposal includes : (a) the establishment of sui generis  rights for music creators to control the 
use o f their works in GenAI contexts;  (b) a clarification that there exists a heavy presumption 
against fair use findings in cases of unauthorized uses of copyrighted musical works by GenAI 
systems ; (c) provisions for the payment of individual royalties on both the ingestion of 
copyrighted works by GenAI systems and on the gross revenues flowing from the output of such 
system s; and (d) a collective licensing  framework that al lows for collective bargaining i n the 
royalty rate setting proces s. We are also willing to listen to proposals concerning establishment 
of a GenAI blanket licensing system, but only one that is subject to creator and copyright 
administrator opt-outs and operated by collectives overseen by an elected  board of directors 
comprised of no less than two -thirds of music creators.   
 
For discussion purposes only, we therefore set forth the following, point by point outline in 
preparation for far more detailed discussions in the immediate future concerning the forging of a 
legislative/administrative solution to serve the best interests of America’s creators, technologists, 
and consumers .  Our initial principles are as follows : 
  
1. It is generally recognized as self -evident that GenAI has both the capacity to enhance 
human musical expression and public enjoyment of the musical arts, or if not properly 
regulat ed by law, to cause longstanding, crushing and potentially existential damage to 
the unique, global phenomena of American musical commerce and culture.   
 
2. It is axiomatic that t here is a fundamental difference between artificial intelligence (“AI”) 
tools and technologies used by humans to assist in advancing human musical creativity, 
and GenAI Systems designed to operate without meaningful human curation in using 
existing copyrig hted works as the basis for outputt ing unauthorized derivatives.  
 
3. In order to preserve American musical commerce and culture (which for over a century 
has produced by far the world’s leading repertoire of musical works), human creators of 
such works must be guaranteed by law the unambiguous, exclusive, sui generis  rights (a) 
to control  the use of their works in all GenAI contexts related to ingestion, manipulation 
and output, and (b) to be fairly compensated and credited for all such uses.   
 
4. Such sui generis  rights should include the authority to collectively negotiate licenses for 
the use and payment of royalties for all copyrighted musical works ingested into so -called 
GenAI “training” systems, the payment of royalties on all output generated by such 
system s, and the continuation of liability for copyright infringement and violation of 
other anti -plagiarism statutes if the scope of licensed rights is exceeded . 
 
5. Such sui generis  rights shall be deemed to have vested at the time of creation of a musical 
work solely in the work’s human creators, including human creators of works made for 
hire, and such rights may only be conveyed in a written instrument executed by such 
human autho r or his/her heirs after the effective date of the establishing legislation.  Such 


6 conveyance of rights shall thereafter be subject to termination pursuant to the terms set 
forth in section 203 of the US Copyright Act  and other sections as may be appropriate . 
6.There should be legislative clarification that unlicensed ingestion, manipulation and
output of copyrighted works by GenAI systems presumptively fall(s) outside the
boundaries of the US fair use doctrine.  It should further be made clear that the creative
and remunerative rights of human creators established by law (including those pursuant
to Article I Section 8 of the US Constitution) are to be favored over the economic and
other desires of those seeking to supplant human creators and their works by
technological means  whether or not for personal gain or profit .
7.It must be a requirement of every GenAI licensing system that a ny party owning,
designing or making use of such systems be mandat ed by law to keep, maintain and
retain complete and accurate records of every copyrighted musical work utilized in the
training and/or ingestion process dating back to day one of system initiation, and full and
complete details of all subsequent output uses.
8.In order to qualify as copyrightable, a musical work should have been created by a human
author(s) whose level of curation over the creative process, among other criteria, rises far
above the level of mere prompts requesting incorporation of artificially p roduced stylistic
influences (whether lyrical,  musical  or performative ).
9.Strict guidelines concerning the mandatory use and preservation of metadata should be
included in governing legislation.
10.It is a commercial and cultural imperative that legislative action in regard to the
governance of GenAI systems should be prompt, in recognition of the speed at which
technological advances are proceeding in the GenAI sector.
IV.Statement s of Interest
SGA is the longest established and largest music creator advocacy and copyright administrative 
organization in the United States run solely by and for songwriters, composers, and their heirs. 
Its positions are reasoned and formulated independently and solely in the interests of music 
creators, without financial influence or other undu e interference from parties whose interests 
vary from or conflict with those of songwriters, composers, and other authors of creative works. 
Established in 1931, SGA has for over 94 years successfully operated with a two -word mission 
statement: “Protect So ngwriters,” and continues to do so throughout the United States and the 
world. SGA’s organizational membership stands at approximately 6500 members  
SCL is the premier US organization for music creators working in all forms of visual media 
(including film, television, video games, and musical theatre). It has a membership of over 4000 
professional composers and lyricists, and is a founding co -member --along with SGA and other 
independent music creator groups -- of MCNA.  


7 MCNA is an alliance of independent songwriter and composer organizations that advocates and 
educates on behalf of North America’s music creator community. As the only internationally 
recognized voice of North American songwriters and composers , MCNA, through its global 
affiliation s, is part of a coalition that represents the professional interests and aspirations of more 
than half a million creators across Africa, Asia, Austral asia-Oceania, North and South America, 
and Europe.  
V.Conclusion
We once again thank the Trump Administration for consideration of these Comments, and for its 
recognition of the crucial importance of attaining the mutually beneficial goals of maintaining 
the global leadership positions of both the US music creator community and the American 
technology community  as to the advance of Artificial Intelligence . We stand ready to assist and 
participate in all future discussion and initiatives on the issues addressed.  
Respectfully submitted, 
Rick Carnes  Ashley Irwin  
President, Songwriters Guild of America ; President, Society of Composers & Lyricists;  
Officer, Music Creators North America   Co-Chair, Music Creators North America  
cc: Charles J. Sanders, Esq.  
Ms. Shira Perlmutter, US Register of Copyrights  
Mr. Eddie Schwartz, President, Music Creators North America  
Members of the US Senate and House Sub -Committees on Intellectual Property 
List of Other Affiliated Organizations  
Alliance for Women Film Composers (AWFC). https://theawfc.com  
Game Audio Network Guild (G.A.N.G.) https://www.audiogang.org/  
Music Answers (M.A.), https://www.musicanswers.org  
Fair Trade Music International (FTMI), https://www.fairtrademusicinternational.org/  
(non-MCNA member)  
CJS//031425 <end>     


