PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0649-17u4
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6393
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
I'm  a writer by trade, and I do not want m y writing scraped by generative artificial intelligence. Gen AI is purposely trained on the work of
those who have already done the work. This deprives us of the credit for our work, and steals and distorts what we've written. So m uch
so, that gen AI often hallucinates.
This is dangerous, as it can lead people to incorrect conclusions. All the while, our work is used for the basis of a prom pt. We don't want
to have our work used like this. It deprives us of work, and gen AI will be used to deprive us further of gainful em ploym ent.
Particularly for freelancers, like m yself, it's already difficult to com pete with generative AI, as m any com panies see it as a "quick fix" for
writing. This encourages the stealing of work, not just em ploym ent-wise, but also stealing the work we've already written.
This technology needs to be greatly regulated, and LLMs and gen AI should not be allowed to train on already established intellectual
properties, as well as individual writing from  authors around the country.
There is no need for this technology to exist. It m akes using the internet worse, prevents writers from  finding work, and is an overall
detrim ent to the intelligence of the Am erican public. When I say I'm  scared of future generations growing up with this technology, I'm
serious. They're being taught to not think critically, and rely on answers that m ay not even be true or, worse, hazardous and/or deadly.
This prevents the Am erican public from  being able to excel in m any ways.
Therefore, I ask that large language m odels and generative artificial intelligence be subject to regulatory guidelines. It poses great and
detrim ental effects to the US public at large, but m ore so to those who m ake their living with the written word.


