PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 13, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 87-f1si-3nqp
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1181
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Vanessa Amayo 
General Comment
My nam e is Vanessa Am ayo, and I am  a graduating senior from  Avonworth High School. I researched the im pact of generative AI on the
m usic industry for a sem ester course, and I recently studied this adm inistration's viewpoint on AI regulation. Based on m y two m onths of
student research and 12 years of studying m usic, I think that AI regulation m ust be consistent with existing policy (such as copyright law)
to protect hum an Am erican creators. Tennessee’s Ensuring Likenes Voice and Im age Security (ELVIS) Act introduced novel legislation
protecting artists specifically from  nonconsensual AI usage, and sim ilar policies should follow. Nonconsensual AI usage could be socially
and financially devastating for artists, particularly sm all or independent artists without the resources to protect their work. Policy m akers
m ust hold AI developers and the m usic industry accountable to protect hum an artists.
Music and art are such vital com ponents of hum an culture, but perform ing and creating at advanced and professional levels can be lim ited
by socioeconom ic factors. AI-integrated platform s have the power to give beginner m usicians access to m usic and enhance professionals’
capabilities. However, these tools m ust not be used as a replacem ent for hum an artists in the nam e of econom ic gain, for it will harm
hum an culture and joy.
As a m usician and student, I believe that AI has the power to m ake both extrem ely positive and negative im pacts, and it is the
responsibility of the user, the developer, the governm ent, and society as a whole to decide if we will leverage AI for good or let it
devastate hum an artistry.


