PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-tm 39-lzle
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3269
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Guo Sheng Teo 
General Comment
To the US Federal Governm ent Review board or whom soever is charged with reading these responses, 
I am  a concerned citizen writing to you to ask that you deny Google and OpenAI’s request to train their Large Language Models or other
sim ilar technologies on copyrighted content. The technologies they are trying to im prove are assem blages of m athem atical form ulae that
attem pt to predict trends and patterns. It is the belief of this citizen that allowing Google and OpenAI to scrape copyrighted data will not
result in worthwhile product for the USA and thus should be denied. 
Currently m ost self-styled “AI-m odels” do not have a viable use case outside of tech dem onstrations. They can feed novel stim uli into their
m odels to output the appearance of new and interesting things like speech, prose, art, m usic and so on. Kindly rem em ber that these
m achines are running elaborate equations to anticipate trends and patterns in previous inform ation. The m achine is recreating m aterial it has
already seen just like Pavlov and his dogs. Whether or not the response is appropriate or correct for the given stim uli is not considered by
the m achine as it parrots out its response. Since it cannot produce new things or things to fit a situation it cannot add to a situation any
solutions or insights that aren’t already apparent or available. 
Already there are m any reports of people receiving awful and inappropriate answers from  these m odels. All from  inform ation scraped off
the internet wholesale. Inform ation that is riddled with in-jokes, slang, and cultural references from  thousands of users which are the cause
of these off-kilter responses. All of which is spat back out without consideration of the context of the original text and source which m ay
very well be a discussion thread for a video gam e, m ovie or novel that m ay not reflect our day-to-day reality. If the discourse around
these properties is so beset with unintelligible “answers” and “insights” can it really be said that including the source m aterial will result in
m ore appropriate answers? 
The answer is no! As already m entioned above these are sophisticated prediction m achines. They do not process inform ation like the
hum an m ind does and consider context, source and intent. These m achines find the very next word, pixel, vibration in each m edium
through an elaborate m athem atical process and spit it back without care or concern for whatever the question, request or com m and was. 
The question that should be asked now that we have established the nature of this technology is whether or not allowing this request to be
approved will provide m ore benefit than the costs. Is there any long-term  value in allowing these two com panies wholesale access to
copyrighted works? Debatable. 
Is there potential for enorm ous dam age when these com panies’ m achines use that sam e data to produce off-kilter irrelevant responses that
are not novel innovations or sensitive solutions to new scenarios? Unquestionably yes. 
Is copyright law not in place to incentivize and protect innovators, creatives and entrepreneurs in their respective endeavors? To grease
the wheel of progress to ask people to pursue new ideas and m odes of thinking to create wonderful things: Inventions to solve problem s,
m edia to enrich our lives, system s of com m erce to better distribute resources to m ore people.
I assert that it would be foolish to allow these com panies access to this inform ation. Irrespective of their good intentions or otherwise.
They represent the dissolution of our entire system  of intellectual property. Allowing them  to peruse all protected works and ideas will
galvanize their peers and com petitors in this arena and beyond to clam or for the sam e in the nam e of business and profits. It would lead to
the com plete degradation and then disregard of the copyright system . 
The projected infinite wealth of the future squandered to allow two com panies an attem pt at a com petition with their foreign counterparts.
The future wasted upon a barbarous “arm  wrestling” com petition that has m ade nobody m oney abroad or dom estically. The choice seem s
blindingly sim ple: do not allow them  access. 


