PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 13, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 87-xorn-avm 9
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1249
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Charl ie Garza 
General Comment
There is a com m on argum ent in favor of generative AI that its creation process can be likened to a person receiving inspiration for their
own projects. For exam ple: if a person looks at a painting of a polar bear, then they decide they want to m ake their own painting of a
polar bear, is that not the sam e as Generative AI using a picture of a polar bear to generate an im age of a polar bear?
This argum ent is a slippery slope that m any fall into, m erely because they do not understand the creative process. It im plies that for people
creating art, this one piece is the linchpin that holds together the new piece of art, that without this one singular piece, it would not exist.
Quite the contrary: there are countless pieces of artwork that individuals are inspired by every day, so even if that one picture of a polar
bear was taken away, there would be other pieces that can inspire an individual. 
Generative AI, m eanwhile, requires these individual pieces in order to function. No m atter how com plicated Generative AI m ay seem  to
people, it is a tool. It does not replicate the hum an brain and it is not sapient nor sentient: it is a tool. A hum an took im ages from  the
internet and fed them  into a m achine to generate an output. It is m ath, A + B = C. So when Generative AI utilizes m aterial m ade by an
artist to create a product, it would not exist without that artist's hard work -- and if Generative AI is used to cut expenses from  an
anim ation studio, it is actively stealing m oney from  the individuals it stole from .
Myself and m y friends are all creatives in one way or another: writers, coders, artists, m usicians. We all stand against Generative AI. I
personally argue that if organizations such as Generative AI wish to continue their program , purge the current database and have
individuals and organizations subm it works to be included, not to have them  taken without consent.


