PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2tx2-5tfz
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8887
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
AI Statem ent


I am an American who works in the design and arts field. I have worked to develop my skills and 
knowledge for years and to have that threatened to be taken away by Big Tech companies like 
OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google is absolutely unacceptable! 
These generative AI companies seek to exploit and destroy small and large businesses, and 
with their recent demand to gut copyright laws in the United States, this will send a ripple effect 
through creative markets and fields that will hinder not help them. 
Generative AI systems can only produce what is first trained on by real humans. Hundreds of 
thousands of Americans have already been exploited in the name of Big Tech, without consent 
or compensation, and this cannot be the precedent set going forward for the everyman. 
In making it commonplace practice to steal creators’ copyrighted work, this sets a dire state for 
the future where a person is valued less over a machine. Is this what we want America to 
become? 
The internet has already been flooded with deepfakes and other harmful ai produced content 
and if we continue down this path and this administration caves to Big Tech then it will 100% 
stifle human innovation and growth. This is not fair to creators and above all else, it is not right 
in general. 
The purpose of American copyright laws is to protect. In taking this away, we are taking a major 
step backwards that will just harm our nation in the long run and further weaken the state of its 
people. 
Protect American creators, please do not let Big Tech companies further exploit and steal from 
everyday American creators. This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving 
away creator content to Big Tech companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with 
competition. 
What we need, instead of being exploited by billionaires who do not represent the common 
interests of most American citizens, is for people to be able to give consent before their work is 
used by AI systems. 
This administration’s AI Action Plan should encourage robust licensing in order to incentivize 
creative businesses, big or small, to continue to persevere and retain value generated by the 
original creators, not just Big Tech. 
Lastly, this administration’s AI Action Plan should require transparency from generative AI 
companies and Big Tech, to disclose what material they are training their datasets are on and 
the ability to label what is AI generated content. 
I am not anti-progression or anti-technology. I believe that technology is capable for incredibly 
useful things. This is not one such instance. We should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds 


of thousands of Americans in the name of giving it away to Big Tech companies and rewriting 
copyright law. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues. 
 


