PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-et3a-h3vt
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1958
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Laura Stri nger  
Email: 
General Comment
This proposition is a terrible idea for m yriad reasons, but I'll lay out 3 key points below:
1. It's slower than hum an labor. AI requires an enorm ous am ount of resources and drafts to create a product that still requires num erous
revisions and hum an edits to reach som ething usable. Without strict and enforced regulation, it's very likely the processes and m odels we
use today will waste energy and tim e while producing an increasingly inferior product to som ething 100% hum an-created. (See: 2024's
Coca-Cola 15second ad spot that generated over 800 m inutes of unusable m aterial.)
2. It kneecaps businesses and IP. Generative AI and LLMs depend on the unrestricted use of copyrighted m aterial, generally without the
consent or agreem ent of the copyright holder. Not only does this violate the prem ise of copyright altogether, it reduces com petitive
advantages enjoyed by industry leaders at all levels of free enterprise. Further, it sets up US-owned works to be poached, bootlegged or
otherwise befouled by foreign entities.
3. It's still too volatile to scale. AI as it is colloquially known today is only a fraction as powerful or agile as it needs to be to live up to any
prom ises m ade by its prim ary investors and proponents (usually the sam e people.) The tech isn't where it needs to be to fulfill the sales
pitch, and without strict and careful guidance, it risks becom ing a prodigious source of m is/dis-inform ation, file bloat, and shoddy
infrastructure within tech.
The plan as stated sets up the US tech industry for failure, and should not proceed.


