PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-25h4-5hu0
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8342
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Sean Coyle
Address:
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
ai-com m ents


An Artificial Intelligence Action Plan should include clear, effective, 
and immediate protections for copyright holders and for public privacy. 
Protections against copyright infringement and for privacy are actionable 
and publicly agreeable foundational steps to ensuring that a successful 
future for AI can be realized. The rights of copyright holders should not 
be risked, because as time goes on even arguable infringement will become 
so prevalent as to be damaging to the interests of individuals and 
private entities alike. As well, if the unrestricted growth of AI is 
allowed to continue and users' privacy continues to be violated, the 
already prevalent public rejection of AI will only increase, damaging the 
current investments of those with interest in AI and damaging the overall 
usefulness and efficacy of AI itself, ruining its prospective value. 
Enacting clear, effective, and immediate copyright and privacy 
protections is an actionable and publicly agreeable first step to working 
with artificial intelligence, regardless of who's interests are at stake.  
The rights of copyright holders should not be risked. Due to AI's 
widespread rapid growth, anyone interested in protecting their copyrights 
against infringement will face increasing difficulty as time goes on. 
Ensuring clear, effective, and immediate protections for copyright 
holders is an achievable first step that can be taken now to protect 
against a difficult future. If copyright holders' protections are not 
enforced as clearly, as effectively, and as immediately as possible, AI 
threatens to infringe on everyone's copyrights, including artists, 
businesses, corporations, political entities, and any other copyright 
holders. Even the people and entities currently wielding the greatest 
utilization of and having the largest investments in AI will soon want to 
seek their own protections against AI because of AI's rapid and 
unpredictable growth. If those protections are to be sought later, they 
are best enacted now. Enacting copyright protections now as clearly, 
effectively, and immediately as possible is essential for ensuring that 
everyone's interests will be effectively protected now and in the future.  
Artificial Intelligence is being rejected on a large scale by users. Even 
Microsoft, a defendant in litigation related to AI, has recently 
disinvested in AI data centers, suggesting a devaluation in AI's 
prospects due to user rejection. As AI violates its users' privacy, it 
erodes its users' trust. As AI indiscriminately collects data, it erodes 
its own efficacy. Clear, effective, and immediate curtailing of AI's 
widespread and indiscriminate data collection will help ensure the 
public's acceptance of AI an d the further realization of AI's genuine 
usefulness as a tool. As it stands, even if AI were to become a massively 
publicly accepted tool, its indiscriminate data collection will make it 
unreliable to the point that individuals, businesses, and other entities 
will no longer find it useful. By that point, the investment in AI may be 
so great that disinvestment will cause massive loss to profits and huge 
general waste of invested resources. Unless AI can be integrated into 
users' regular lives in a way where  it is generally accepted and where 
users are satisfied with its results, the companies and individuals 
utilizing AI with see ever -increasing resistance to their services, until 
they are forced to disinvest to massive losses. Taking the actionable 
step of clearly, effectively, and immediately ensuring privacy 
protections will not only benefit individuals and businesses, but will 


also ensure that AI will not burn itself ou t and lose all prospective 
value it has as a tool for private and commercial use. 
We must protect against AI's growth through clear, effective , and 
immediate copyright and privac y protections . Individuals, businesses, 
politicians , and anyone else who holds copyright all benefit from 
protectio n agains t infringement, and those protection s will only become 
more sought after and difficul t to achieve as time goes on. The 
unrestricte d widesprea d collection of data withou t regard to privacy 
protectio n will only lead to AI's continued mass rejectio n by the public. 
These things will lead to AI's inevitable dissolution , regardles s of its 
untapped potential. If AI is to be a useful tool for anyone, it needs to 
be accepted as a tool that makes people happy and becomes a useful part 
of people's lives. Enactin g clear, effective, and immediate protections 
for copyright and privacy is an achievabl e foundational step to ensuring 
that any prospectiv e value that artificia l intelligence has to anybody 
can actually be realized. 
Regardles s of your or my politics, this is an issue that we can agree on. 
This is a beast that is untamed, and is not only rapidl y growing in size, 
but starting a family. Do we want to let the tigers breed, until one day 
we wake up with their jaws wrapped around our necks? Or should we start 
designing the enclosures and leashes that will allow us to domesticate 
them, so that we can utilize their strength and foster their healthy 
growth? The leashes are within our grasp. Clear, effective, an d immediate 
protections for copyright holder s and for public privac y are the tools we 
need. Now is the time to establish them. 
Thank you for reading. 
Sean Coyle 


