PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zoz0-efjc
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6025
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Michael Van Vleet 
General Comment
March 14, 2025
From :
Michael Van Vleet
Digital Product Manager
El Cerrito, CA
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am  an everyday Am erican who creates m edia as part of m y day job, and also writes original fiction as a hobby and side business. I
consider m yself an artist, first and forem ost, and have m ade a point m y entire career to credit and pay creative artists for their work.
The AI system s m ade by Big Tech com panies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy thousands of Am erican sm all
businesses like m ine with their recent dem and to create special carve outs in copyright law.
There is no justification for taking the hard work of average Am ericans and handing it over without recom pense to large for-profit
com panies that could-- and should-- be paying artists if their work is necessary to create and m aintain their products.
Nothing about taking copyrighted work and feeding it into an LLM or sim ilar database is "fair use." Perhaps there would be an argum ent
to be m ade if the end result was free for public consum ption. It would still be com peting with the business interests of artists, but "fair use"
was intended as a carve out for education and the betterm ent of the public sphere. But these com panies hope to profit on the works of the
artists they also want to com pete with in the m arket.
Such an effort will stifle innovation and provides profit to those who invested none of the initial effort to create the creative works that fuel
the Am erican econom y.
Protect Am erican innovation and protect Am erican creators. Do not create new copyright exem ptions that allow Big Tech com panies to
exploit and steal from  creators and everyday Am ericans without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency.
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech com panies, but rather on ensuring a fair
m arketplace with com petition:
First, the governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, so that we can decide when and where
our work is used by AI system s.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is
preserved. Our work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just


Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their
training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
Thank you for the opportunity to com m ent on these im portant issues.


