PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2pjf-p9zo
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8510
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
Hello, I am  a data science student studying AI in school. One of the biggest challenges we are facing today is that AI is growing faster than
governm ent can keep up with it. As a result, the industry is largely self-regulated. My public com m ent is to ask for m ore oversight,
accountability, and transparency for AI m odels and applications.
These suggestions are taken from  the NAACP's brief on AI in predictive policing, but I believe m any of these can and should be applied
to AI in general:
- Im plem ent Rigorous Oversight: Establish independent oversight bodies to review and m onitor the use of AI, ensuring algorithm s are fair,
accurate, and non-discrim inatory.
- Mandate Transparency and Accountability: Require industries to disclose the use of AI, particularly Generative AI, including the data
sources, m ethodologies, and im pact assessm ents. If Gen AI is drawing off of previous copyrighted/tradem arked m aterial, the original
creator should be credited and revenue from  the Gen AI should be shared with original creators.
- Prom ote Com m unity Engagem ent: Involve com m unity m em bers in the decision-m aking process regarding the use of AI in their
neighborhoods to build trust and accountability.
- Ban the Use of Biased Data: Prohibit the use of data sources known to contain sensitive biases (such as race or gender) unless the data
has been cleaned/transform ed to be representative of the population as a whole.
- Establish Legal Fram eworks: Enact legislation to regulate the developm ent, deploym ent, and evaluation of AI, with strict penalties for
violations of civil liberties.


