PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-ovzy-idgo
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2642
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Neil Blevins
General Comment
Hi there. My nam e is Neil Blevins, and I am  an Art Director and concept artist. I would like to urge the governm ent to declare that training
of Generative AI on copyright m aterial a violation of current copyright law. 
Many tech com panies are arguing that training AIs on copyright m aterial should fall under "fair use", however, one of the tenants of fair use
is that the result of the usage should not com pete with the person who's work has been used. This m akes a lot of sense, if I create a piece
of art, and som eone wants to write a critique of m y work including the art for people to see, that critique does not interfere with m e
continuing to sell said work.
However, the vast m ajority of Generative AI software is specifically being m arketed as a replacem ent for the original artists whose work
has been used in the training data without their perm ission and without com pensation. The effects of this have already been devastating.
About 50% of m y fellow artists are current unem ployed or under em ployed due to these developm ents. I have worked 25 years in the
entertainm ent field including working on 9 Pixar film s that have won oscars and delighted billions of children, and I have been unable to
secure new fulltim e work in well over a year due in part to com panies downsizing their art departm ents by using generative AI to create
artwork. Thousands of people are jobless due to this unfair com petition, and the num ber will continue to grow, as well as spread to other
fields, increasing unem ploym ent rates.
The technology could potentially be used to help society, and I am  all for legislation that can help guide it in that positive direction. But the
way it is currently being utilized is putting a lot of people out of work, and not adding new jobs for them  to do. The first step to fixing the
AI debacle is upholding current copyright law, and create clean datasets that are based on copyright free work, and work where the
contributors give their perm ission and are appropriately com pensated. Please help us create AI that will benefit hum anity, not im pede its
econom ic prosperity.


