PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-xxkf-ve2o
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4702
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Austin Gerth 
 Email: 
General Comment
The outputs of generative AI program s should not be copyrightable by hum ans because the hum ans writing the prom pts do not have
m eaningful direct control over the outputs. The scraping of the entire body of intellectual property available on the internet for the purpose
of training AI program s should not be considered "fair use."
The works of so-called "art" produced by prom pting so-called "artificial intelligence" are, at their core, recom binative. Generative AI
program s, by m y understanding, are not capable of adding anything of their own to the works they produce. Instead, their outputs m erely
com bine elem ents of other works already in existence, either produced by hum ans (or, now, by other generative AI program s). They m ay
do this com bining of elem ents in a fairly com plex way, based on the prom pts given to them  by hum ans, but the fundam ental truth is that AI
"art" is just Frankensteined-together bits and pieces of intellectual property. None of this work would exist without the cannibalization of
hum an work.
Now, sure, som e art m ade by hum an beings is fundam entally recom binative as well. But som e hum an art transcends its influences. Hum an
beings produce creative work in a nonlinear and som etim es ineffable way that generative AI is not capable of duplicating, and indeed does
not need to duplicate. We do not need a m achine that does what we already do well enough on our own, at an unnecessary environm ental
cost.
AI does not need to exist. Generative AI has no killer app and no practical use other than the production of digital garbage. There is no
way for this technology to be substantially im proved There is no need for the US to be a dom inant player in the AI m arket. Let China
dom inate this pointless industry, and let the lum bering, over-funded U.S. com panies that have hyped this vacuous technology beyond all
rationality collapse in upon them selves.


