PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3obq-xm 76
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9343
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: .Lorian 
Merri man 
General Comment
I work in the arts and have friends in education. Over the last few years, we've watched so-called AI (predictive algorithm s) disrupt
students' ability to learn and think, persuade com panies that they can replace essential functions (and jobs) with low-quality AI em ulations,
and add a staggering burden to our energy grid. These system s add nothing to our quality of life as a nation - their only function is to enrich
the select elite few. In fact, they are an active detrim ent to society in alm ost all arenas.
As an artist, I'm  not threatened by the output of what "AI" produces - low-quality sludge spewed out by a soulless plagiarism  m achine. It
does however m ake m y profession harder in m yriad ways that I honestly struggle to enum erate because they are so all-encom passing. A
swam p of AI-produced im ages and low-quality products, churned out solely to m ake m oney at the expense of consum ers who don't
know what they're buying, pollute the waters of the artistic m arketplace, as well as m ake it difficult to collect the high-quality reference
m aterials I need for m y art. It is designed to steal the output of hard-working, lower-incom e artists to enrich jaded technocrats. And yet
for all that it im pacts m y career, far worse is the drain on energy it produces - the already strained Texas energy grid warned yet again of
possible energy blackouts, with the added burden of AI sapping yet m ore of our desperately-needed energy. The global cost on the
environm ent is high. It m ust be regulated out of existence.
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution


