PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-tihp-im su
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3253
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Preston Ford
General Comment
I see the usage of AI having equal potential for great benefit and great harm  to both the econom y and society. My m ain concern is on
behalf of the Arts, the Hum anities, and the Culture of the United States of Am erica. We as a nation have unprecedented cultural
accessibility, spread, and ability to create as a whole. To m e, the goal of Artificial Intelligence com panies is first and forem ost to
underm ine the power of the Arts and Hum anities in our society, in favor of their services for long-term  profit and a steady cash source
from  consum ers. AI should not have any access to existing works of art without express perm ission given, via E-m ail, Fax, or in Writing,
to the party interested in using the work or training. I see the utm ost need for power being in the hands of creatives experienced or not;
everybody has the ability to produce art and should be protected as such!
There are naturally som e confines and grey areas to this, such as the range of perm issions. I feel that artists should be able to "bulk sign"
the use of existing works if they want to, or just individually allow artificial intelligence access if that is their wish. I don't feel there should
be any im plication that agreem ents include future works unless explicitly understood as such by the author/artist. Of utm ost concern to m e
is the accountability and transparency of AI com panies; requiring signing agreem ents for training would create databases of artists and
works being used. These works could then be officially attributed by AI com panies on their websites or other form s of dem onstrating their
work, upon user request. Justice for the Arts and Hum anities of our Nation is the highest priority when they are under threat like never
before, by technology that does not care if hum ans create or perish, so long as it has m ore data to feed on foreverm ore.


