PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-qo4s-pd2f
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2863
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Peter Paralikas
Address:
General Comment
As an engineering student graduate, som eone with a m asters in Cybersecurity, and a regular navigator of the internet, I very strongly argue
against the idea of overturning Executive Order 14148. The protections pushed in that order affected IPs across all industries
Regardless of that, as a new plan for the USA's AI initiatives is form ed, there are a num ber of areas is CAN be focused upon and
im proved. Im proved analytics, a focus on research in the tech field, where generative ai focus could instead be turned to a focus on the
sim ulations instead.
And of course, regulations for the industry as a whole - both on AI, and on cybersecurity. I have an entire thesis I wrote describing key
directions the federal governm ent could approach on this, such as, enhancing the current standards com panies are held to, with tiers based
on the size. Properly setting fines for not just failure to m eet standard, but also for each and every person who was affected by data
breaches, putting in place definitive penalties for selling user data or collecting it when not necessary, and establishing requirem ents and
security checks that m ust strictly be followed if working on a governm ent project.
However, I would argue against any efforts to enhance generative AI. As stated even a this past February by the CEO of Microsoft
(https://ca.finance.yahoo.com /news/m icrosoft-ceo-adm its-ai-generating-123059075.htm l), Generative AI has no real value. It is an
expensive tool, one that requires so m uch data that it can't be fully fed on all of the internet, costs incredible am ounts of energy to m aintain.
And of course, there is the known fact that generative AI uses owned IPs and original work to 'create' new art, stories, im ages etc.
However, while OpenAI and sim ilar com panies will say that this is not theft, they are m ore than happy to point the finger at other
com panies who m ake waves in the GenAI field for the sam e (https://www.latim es.com /business/story/2025-01-30/colum n-openai-
accuses-china-of-stealing-its-content-the-sam e-accusation-that-authors-have-m ade-against-openai). 
If the US governm ent wishes to focus on generative AI, I would argue its best choice would be to developing the technology to
RECOGNIZE IT. Our enem ies abroad will certainly be utilizing it in the future for propaganda. We should be prepared to call it out, and
prove it is a false creation. This also doubles as a protection for the Am erican people from  abuses and fraud that has already begun in the
industry (i.e. generated im ages of food, products etc, selling the 'concept' of an idea).
Hopefully, whoever reads this com m ent takes to heart how im portant our cybersecurity is over the idea of spending billions on the tech-
world's latest craze.


