PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-q0oi-cbpt
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2775
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Rachel M.  
General Comment
I have been actively threatened by artificial intelligence for quite som e tim e now ever since its debut around 2023. I absolutely do not trust
this technology, as it has been proven to m ake far m ore highly dam aging errors than an educated hum an would ever m ake. Hearing that it
was introduced into our healthcare system s m akes m e very scared that it’ll m ake a highly dam aging error that could kill m e or m y loved
ones.
The risks this technology poses is HIGH, as within the educational environm ent alone, it’s noticeably causing a lack of work ethic &
problem  solving skills in students, as they just run an “AI” program  to do all of their schoolwork & even reading for them  via generating
chapter sum m aries for them ; half of the tim e with incorrect & m ade up inform ation. This lack of thinking just within Am erica’s educational
environm ents is suspected to result in weakened brains, which is expected to cause a rise in dem entia am ong the younger generations if
nothing is done about it. If it’s going to cause that level of brain dam age in our children, im agine what it could do in a hospital setting!
Making up sym ptom s & diseases, resulting in less people being properly diagnosed, which could result in m ore people dying!
And besides the dam age it can & is causing in these environm ents, generative "AI" technology in particular requires breaking copyright law
in order to effectively train. When com panies have to, en m ass, break the law to achieve their goals, it's called 'organized crim e.'
Generative "AI" technology requires illegal organized crim e in order to develop, & because of this, should be stopped dead in its tracks &
not pursued by the federal governm ent of the United States. It is illegal to use copyrighted m aterial without the copyright holder's
perm ission, & these generative "AI" com panies have been illegally taking people's im ages, writings, voices, & visual likenesses, without
perm ission or financial com pensation to use for their "AI" databases to train their "AI" with. This has been causing hundreds of thousands
of artists, writers, voice actors, & coders around the world to lose job opportunities & becom ing poor & unem ployed due to the way so
m any com panies seek to avoid paying a real person a wage when they can use the literal plagiarism  m achine that is "AI" generative
technology to m ake som ething m angled, soulless, & copyright violating for free for them . 
Please enforce copyright law instead of encouraging m ore organized crim e when it com es to generative "AI" technology; for hum anity's, &
Am erica's, sake. Do not com ply with this executive order, it blatantly does not have our best interest in m ind.


