PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3f43-rvv7
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9412
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Kathryn Robbins 
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
AI-Generator-CopyrightCom m ent


Kathryn Robbins 
Independent Artist 
Re: National Science Foundation’ s Request for Information on the 
Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
I am an everyday America n who owns a small visual design busines s which 
serves client s in the entertainmen t industry. I have worked hard for 
years to develo p the skills and knowledge to build my business, and have 
been lucky enough to make a decent living and support my famil y – until 
recently. 
The AI system s made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft ) and 
Google threaten to destroy thousands of America n small businesse s like 
mine with their recent demand to create special carve outs in copyright 
law. 
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work made by people. 
My unique work, and the work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday 
American creators was taken and fed into thes e AI systems without our 
consent or any compensation. They ingest ou r work, reassembl e it, and 
then sell it back to our clients – directly competing with us and cutting 
us out of the marketplace. 
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create 
exception s and loopholes to make this practic e of stealing American 
creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggestin g that if a 
machine ingests and reproduces copyrighte d work, it is somehow suddenly 
“fair use”. 
They seem to believ e that anything and everything on the interne t – 
regardles s of who owns it – should be their s for the taking. They claim 
that if this administratio n does not allow them to rewrit e the law in 
this way, it will stifle American innovation. 
Instead, it will have th e opposite effect. The purpos e of American 
copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put 
online will be stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to 
create? If everyday Americans create a new innovative piece of computer 
code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it 
immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creatin g it in the 
first place? How will we possibly make a living doing these things? 


Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not 
create new copyright exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit 
and steal from creators and everyday Americans without permission, 
compensation, or transparency.  
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away 
creator content to Big Tech companies, but rather on ensuring a fair 
marketplace with competition:  
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans 
give effective consent, so that we can decide when and where our work is 
used by AI systems.  
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing 
marketplace, so that the incentive to create for small businesses is 
preserved. Our work has immense economic value, so the value generated by 
that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech.  
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech 
companies, requiring them to disclose what material is in their training 
datasets, and label what content is AI generated.  
I am not anti -technology or anti -AI. I am consistently impressed by the 
capabilities of these AI systems, and find them incredibly useful for 
many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of 
thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting 
copyright law.  
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.  


