PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-ycg6-ru2v
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4964
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Al N
General Comment
From :
Al N.
Cartoonist
California
I am  a disabled sm all business owner who relies on illustration work done for private clients for m y incom e. I consider m yself extrem ely
fortunate to have this option, and have worked hard for years to develop m y skills as a creator in order to m ake best possible use of it.
Even so, the financial reality for visual artists is a life that is tenuously stable at best. Generative AI is a threat to am ericans across all
creative industries who have strived to hone their crafts as professionals, as an unethically sourced technology that can and will be used to
destroy livelyhoods as cost-cutting replacem ent for artistic labor. 
Adding insult to injury, the forces behind visually generative AI want free reign to take and use the results of creative professionals'
lifetim es of work in order to refine the m achine being built to ruin their lives. They seek an unprecedented exception to copyright in a way
that is transparently for their own personal gain in order to sustain a business m odel that they fear cannot survive under ethical conditions.
If AI com panies are unable to train their m odels via licensing and paying for source works, their business m odel is fundam entally a failure.
It's not the governm ent's place to prop up bad business plans predicated on stealing from  hardworking professionals.
While I have criticism s regarding the sustainability of "AI" tech I recognize there are m any fields in which it presents potential for im portant
innovations. Visual arts is not one of them , and creating legal shortcuts for a barrier in developm ent will not be of any boon to industries
that m ay actually benefit from  AI tech. If anything, the sources of AI training data should be heavily regulated now to encourage the
developm ent of a robust technology that can produce reliable results when faced with future barriers.
No copyright exem ptions for big tech. Thank you for your tim e.


