PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-pp5b-j9sq
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2779
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Amanda Le
General Comment
See attached file(s)
My nam e is Am anda Le.
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be (print page 9089) re-used by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents
with-out attribution.
I im plore the current governm ent to re-instate the protections issued by Biden-Harris’s AI Executive Order 14110 of October 30, 2023
(Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Developm ent and Use of Artificial Intelligence) m oving forward. In regards to just the issue of Artificial
Intelligence, the governm ent m ust take action to ensure that the Am erican people are put first. The use of AI should not excuse
organizations from  legal liabilities and obligations to their people, and the protections im plem ented through the Executive order 14110
ensures that civil rights are m aintained. In order to continue to have trust in the AI system s, there m ust be protections in place to ensure
that AI can be used safely, securely, and without theft or destruction of the environm ent. 
Requirem ents should be necessary and m et to enhance Am erica’s AI innovation, otherwise any advancem ents will com e at a greater cost
and risk to the people’s job security, coun-try’s security, and overall safety than it will provide any benefits to our society. Please en-sure
that “unnecessarily burdensom e” requirem ents are in place to ensure safety and secu-rity and does not open the door to crim e and theft
under the guise of “AI training.”
As part of the public, I caution against the push for AI because this puts m y job as risk and destabilizes the econom y as well as harm s the
environm ent. Please work as a governm ent to im plem ent adequate security m easures to stop the unsafe growth of AI, and ensure that AI
only grows in a controlled m anner.
Attachments
AI Action Plan Public Com m ent


My name is Amanda Le.
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be (print page 9089) reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
I implore the current government to re-instate the protections issued by Biden-Harris’s AI 
Executive Order 14110  of October 30, 2023 (Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and 
Use of Artificial Intelligence) moving forward. In regards to just the issue of Artificial 
Intelligence, the government must take action to ensure that the American people are put first. 
The use of AI should not excuse organizations from legal liabilities and obligations to their 
people, and the protections implemented through the Executive order 14110 ensures that civil 
rights are maintained. In order to continue to have trust in the AI systems, there must be 
protections in place to ensure that AI can be used safely, securely, and without theft or 
destruction of the environment. 
Requirements should be necessary and met to enhance America’s AI innovation, otherwise any 
advancements will come at a greater cost and risk to the people’s job security, country’s security, 
and overall safety than it will provide any benefits to our society. Please ensure that 
“unnecessarily burdensome” requirements are in place to ensure safety and security and does not 
open the door to crime and theft under the guise of “AI training.”
As part of the public, I caution against the push for AI because this puts my job as risk and 
destabilizes the economy as well as harms the environment. Please work as a government to 
implement adequate security measures to stop the unsafe growth of AI, and ensure that AI only 
grows in a controlled manner.


