PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0nyl-lupa
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6766
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
Broadly, AI is an over-hyped, over-funded, m oney pit with precious little real world application (referring to LLMs, generative AI,
chatbots and other such m odels that cannot exist without training data) that steals from  m y livelihood as an Am erican and profits off of the
theft. The vast m ajority of the m ajor com panies investing in these tools are actively and flagrantly violating not only m y copyright over m y
illustrations and designs, but m y privacy, and are contributing to the underm ining of this country's national security and the safety of our
citizens. 
It is already known that the environm ental im pacts of this tech far outstrip the benefits they bring. To ask for even greater latitude over our
intellectual property, personal data, and for the freedom  to cause greater harm  than ever, goes against what Am erica stands for. It is a
grift, a con, and a power grab, because they cannot continue to exist without our art, our thoughts, our feelings and our content. Allowing
this out of control freight train to steam roll individual liberties is Un-Am erican and grossly irresponsible. 
Major com panies, such as Microsoft have already seen the writing on the wall regarding AI, quietly scaling back efforts to invest in it and
cutting developm ent program s in favor of m ore profitable endeavors. OpenAI is desperate to suggest we undo our copyright/tradem ark
protections so a handful of com panies can run buck wild across our digital landscape. As a concerned Am erican citizen, I do not consent,
I do not condone this, and I do not agree with the m ulti-layered fallacy that unchecked AI developm ent will provide a "better" or
"brighter" future for Am erica.
The Am erican people do not benefit from  their em pty prom ises of "if we just had m ore tim e" and "if we just didn't have to follow the
rules". None of these com panies owe any loyalty to this country and only care about im possible growth, and endless profits. Make no
m istake, they will bleed us dry and then leave for overseas to continue chasing "growth", devastating our econom y, hurting our people and
loved ones, and betraying any trust we give. 
In suggestion for policy, anyone collecting AI training data m ust properly com pensate people for ANY copyrighted training m aterials or
data. This should also include protections that very broadly state WHEN data is being collected, WHERE your data is stored, HOW your
data is being used, explicitly, and clearly lay out an appropriate com pensation structure for said data. AI-generated m aterials m ust not be
copyrightable. Furtherm ore, there need to be laws lim iting the replacem ent of hum an beings with AI. Lack of hum an oversight is a recipe
for disaster (ask any IT staffer.)
In short, AI needs som e breaks, NOW.


