PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3shh-jn73
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9426
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I am  an individual artist. I have no experience in political m atters, or scientific ones really. In som e ways I could be considered a nobody,
but I believe I speak for a large plurality of silent citizens as I type this com m ent.
Artificial intelligence has been an existential headache for those interested in artistic pursuits. It allows corporations and m alicious actors to
capitalize on hundreds, probably thousands of other peoples' work without a scrap of com pensation, flooding social m edia with cheap AI
slop that devalues the hum an experience. I won't deny that artificial intelligence has som e real upsides, but totally unrestricted usage of that
technology will harm  m ore Am ericans than it will help.
AI has been used as a tool for propaganda and m isinform ation. It allows nearly anyone to present inform ation in a way that the general
public cannot easily identify as real or fake. Its cheapness and ease of reproduction ensures that every corner of the internet that allows
AI-produced content has inevitably been flooded by it. The idea that the Am erican governm ent would even entertain em bracing this kind
of large-scale delusion sickens m e, as it should anyone who has any bit of respect for the life of the average citizen.
Few will benefit m ore from  artificial intelligence than those who are already rich and in power, who see the technology as an excuse to cut
out jobs in the lower and m iddle levels. Those sam e people will likely grant them selves special privileges to ensure their own existence isn't
endangered by AI. I have to ask, if artificial intelligence can be relied on to handle such things as data analysis and the creation of art, why
not replace lawm akers with m achines? Surely a sufficiently advanced AI could handle presidential duties m ore logically and efficiently than
any hum an ever could. If AI is em braced, we either end up with an Am erica where m achines run the entire country from  head to toe, or
we end up with an Am erica where the strong grow stronger and everyone else is left to starve. To believe that either future is desirable is
frankly a stupid belief.
Once again, I am  not anyone im portant, but neither are m ost of the m illions of Am ericans whose livelihoods could be negatively im pacted
by this approach to artificial intelligence. Millions of people who aren't aware that their governm ent is considering advancing the interests
of AI over feeding its own people. If any hum an is reading this m essage, and I sure hope that this is the case, I want you to consider m y
words as if they were com ing from  a senator or a representative of the House. Hum an perspective m atters when it com es to the ruling of a
country, and the current advancem ent of AI does not consider the perspectives of those outside of a very slim  m inority. I doubt the
current adm inistration of the White House cares about any m em ber of the com m on people, but to anyone else, this should be a tim e to
realize just how m iserable our future is starting to look.


