PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zcw2-sa0s
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5758
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Emily Olson   
Email: 
General Comment
I do not believe AI holds a place in the future of the United States. In certain fields (m edical being the prim ary field that com es to m ind) it
can be a useful tool, but as far as generative AI goes- AI used to assist in the writing process, coding, voice work, and creating art- it
needs tight restrictions. These m achines learn by stealing the hard work of real, living creatives; oftentim es without their knowledge or
consent. As a creative m yself, I've seen people use this technology to steal the livelihoods of m y fellow creatives by offering fast, cheap
com m issions, stealing precious few seats from  conventions where m any artists m ake their living selling their work, and being hired in big-
nam e com panies trying to save a few bucks by taking the cheap route with AI. Those who have worked with said com panies have
reported that these decisions only backfire in the end, as real artists still need to be on board to correct the m istakes m ade by the
m achines. Though these program s are brought on to save tim e and m oney, they only end up wasting tim e and m oney in the end, as
individuals who rely on the m achines to create art typically do not have an artistic eye them selves and do not know how to correct
m istakes. Not to m ention, it can take hours and countless sam ples of footage and tweaking prom pts to m ake anything usable (a fam ous
exam ple being the hundreds of hours worth of content it took for Coke-Cola to m ake that 60-second AI generated Christm as ad).
As com panies latch on to AI to force into their services, there is an outcry from  the average Am erican to m ake it stop. Google is already
m aking jobs in confidential fields pointlessly difficult by causing security problem s in docum ents and e-m ails with no opt-out option. Artists
have been begging for m ore security for ages with their own copyrights in jeopardy thanks to the blatant theft. Websites such as ChatGPT
are causing the fall of critical thinking in real-tim e as students would rather let a robot write their essays and do their hom ework for them
than take the tim e to put in the work on their own; sim ultaneously destroying their own critical thinking and forcing teachers to work even
harder than they already are by trying to detect if students are genuinely doing their own work or not. Not to m ention Goggle's AI
overview has proven tim e and tim e again to be riddled with (som etim es dangerous) m isinform ation. 
Furtherm ore, the technology used to produce these im ages and writing and code consum e large quantities of energy just to function. The
planet is in bad enough shape without these power-wasting plagiarism  m achines- we don't need to m ake things worse. 
In conclusion; generative AI has been a blight on technological advancem ents for the past couple of years. It wastes energy, steals work
from  living people, and is causing a decline in learning and critical thinking. Now m ore than ever, we need to protect the works of living
and breathing people. We don't need m achines to steal our joy and creativity.


