PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-x0vj-ta94
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4160
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Jennifer Hoffman 
General Comment
I am  very concerned about this initiative for m ultiple reasons.
* Our rush to em brace AI for content developm ent is a disaster for individuals who are producing and publicizing original work. The
"unnecessarily burdensom e requirem ents" referenced in this plan are those that protect artists and writers from  having their work used to
train AI m odels without their perm ission. Rem oving these requirem ents devalues creative work and disadvantages individuals in favor of
large tech com panies.
* As a scientist and educator, I fear we are rapidly approaching an AI singularity in which no original ideas exist because AI is sim ply
feeding on itself and regurgitating old results over and over. CREATIVE WORK SHOULD BE FOR HUMANS. There are no shortcuts
to true creativity and innovation. AI has a role in assisting with tasks our brains cannot handle, but it cannot generate new ideas.
Pretending it will solve all our problem s is a dangerous delusion.
* AI is an enorm ous water and energy hog that is accelerating our greenhouse gas em issions and reliance on fossil fuels. It needs to be
developed cautiously and with an eye toward sustainable energy sources. Rem oving restrictions on its use and developm ent will have
grave environm ental consequences.
I strongly oppose this initiative and urge you to reconsider. We don't have to do everything Elon Musk thinks is a good idea -- in fact he
doesn't have a good history of being right. Let's take things deliberately and in consultation with the people who will be m ost affected by
unrestricted AI developm ent.
Thank you,
Jennifer Hoffm an


