PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3g05-zrr5
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9435
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
See attached file(s). Thank you.
Attachments
White House AI Action Plan Com m ent Letter


March 14, 2025
From:
A Concerned DLA Contractor
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for In formation o n the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) A ction Plan
The AI systems made b y Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) a nd Google 
threaten to d estroy thousands of Am erican small businesses wh ich rely on human 
creativity and output wit h their recent demand t o create special carve outs in copyright 
law.
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work made by people. It does not create 
something from nothing, nor does it merely take in spiration. The work of hundreds of thousands 
of other everyday American creators is instead ta ken a nd fed into these AI system s without 
consent or a ny co mpensation. It is the m ost un-American practice I can think of. It is destined to 
eat itself, in the end, as artists are pushed o ut of the m arket by it, leaving itself with nothing new 
to copy, but the stolen wo rks of other A I.
The purpose of American c opyright law is t o protect t he incentive t o create and innovate. 
Do not c reate new copyright exemptions t hat allow Big Tech c ompanies to exploit and 
steal from creators a nd everyday Americans wit hout p ermission, compensation, or 
transparency.
This administration’s AI Action P lan should fo cus not on giving away creator co ntent to Big Tech 
companies, but rather o n ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
●First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
●Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that
the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Artist's work has immense
economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original
creators, not just Big Tech.
●Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what
content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. In fact, I work in and around both these fields. It is, in fact, 
exactly for dealing with it first hand that pushes me to reject such legislation around it. 


Thank you for reading. Know that, even if not every word was strictly my own, I mean every bit 
of it all the same. 
Please make the right choice.


