PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-gj75-87y0
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2064
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Alan Capuano  
Email: 
General Comment
First, let's address the elephant in the room . What is being called AI is not an artificial intelligence in the slightest. The term  "AI" is 100%
m arketing and buzzwords used to deceive people without deeper knowledge of the software. Nothing labeled as AI is intelligent or can
m ake decisions of any kind. All these various software are, in sim plest term s, pattern recognition software that tries to fill in blanks. Dogs
are sm arter than ChatGPT. The results ChatGPT gives are the projection of the Wizard of Oz, but the inner workings are essentially a
m an behind a curtain. This bad joke is what techbros are desperately trying to m ake a use case for.
In term s of copyright and intellectual property, there is no fair use case for Silicon Valley's bad experim ents. Why should desperate
techbros be able to parasitize countless Am erican artists, writers, entrepreneurs, and com pany IPs with zero com pensation or perm ission
to train their m achines? Courts have already ruled that AI does not have the capacity to create useful bodies of works, and are not subject
to copyright. If AI com panies can't create the software they want without literally stealing from  everyone under the sun, how is that fair
use? That's their problem . Would I be allowed to break into your house, and gut all the copper pipes and wiring, as long as I told you I
was building the next great snake oil m achine with it? No, I would be arrested and called insane. There isn't m uch of a difference.
What these AI softwares will do though is gut the Am erican econom y, and force m illions of Am ericans into unem ploym ent. These
m achines will not create jobs. They will create untold problem s.


