PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-n6hd-fcw6
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2529
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Marietta Weaver  
General Comment
AI is not only incapable of understanding context, but will provide inform ation that is not only incorrect, but was “hallucinated” by the AI.
No hum an expert would be allowed to continue in their field if they were consistently and blatantly wrong one out of every ten tim es they
spoke- and that’s the accuracy of the “better” AI m odels.
Most are around 50%- practically a flip of the coin on whether or not you get accurate results.
And yet m any search engine services are using these poorly perform ing glorified algorithm s to keep people on their site for longer, instead
of giving them  the link to the sites that actually provide what they’re looking for.
Indeed, since the introduction of “AI overviews” on Google, site traffic has crashed near universally, negatively affecting the livelihood of
hundreds while large com panies thrive at their expense.
Generative AI is easily the worst at this- how are people to create and share their creations when they can be snatched out of their hands
by greedy corporations to be m angled and m ashed into heinous abom inations no one actually wants?
The only people that benefit from  this technology are those who deceive and take advantage of others for their own gain.
The scam m ers using GenAI im agery to present products that don’t exist, the m anipulative AI chat sites taking advantage of the lonely and
desperate with false com panions, the predators who exploit others by creating revenge porn or sim ulating CSAM, censors m anipulating
narratives by autoflagging the opposing side , or flooding the search results with AI generated articles in their favor, the propagandists
fom enting conflict and hatred over events that never even occurred- these are the things AI is “good” for.
Why in God’s nam e would you ever want m ore of that?


