PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1fqo-zbr7
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7736
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Docum ent 1


March 14, 2025
From:
A concerned American
Illustrator
Re: National Science Foundation’ s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am an everyda y American who own s a small visual design busine ss which serve s client s in the 
entertainment industry. I have worked hard for years to develop the skill s and knowledge to 
build m y business, and have been lu cky enough to make a decent living and support m y family 
– until recently.
The AI systems made by Big Tec h companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google 
threate n to destroy thousands of America n small businesses like mine with thei r recent 
demand to create special carve outs in copyright law.
AI system s can onl y be produced b y first training on wor k made b y people. M y unique work, and 
the wor k of hundred s of thousand s of other everyda y American creator s was taken and fed into 
these AI system s without our consent or an y compensation. The y ingest our work, reassemble 
it, and then sell it ba ck to our client s – directl y competing with u s and cutting u s out of the 
marketplace.
Now these Big Tech companie s are asking thi s administration to create exception s and 
loophole s to make thi s practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted wor k legal precedent. 
They are suggesting that if a machine ingest s and reproduce s copyrighted work, it i s somehow 
suddenl y “fair use”. 
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardle ss of who own s it – 
should be their s for the taking. The y claim that if this administration doe s not allow them to 
rewrite the law in thi s way, it will stifle American innovation.
Instea d, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to 
protect the incentive to create and innovate. 


If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen 
by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new 
innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new pi ece of music only to have it 
immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will 
we possibly make a living doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and 
everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
•First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
•Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that
the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense
economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original
creators, not just Big Tech.
•Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what
content is AI generated.
I am not anti -technology or anti -AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard 
work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to B ig Tech by rewriting copyright 
law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


