PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3hfb-279g
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9468
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Andrew Severson
General Comment
I am  writing to show m y concern about how AI training is taking copyrighted works and using them  without perm ission and the effect it
can have on copyright law m oving forward.
Attachments
AILetter


From:
Andrew S
Expert Environment Artist – 3D artist for Video Games
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for In formation on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am a n everyda y American wh o wo rks to develop a nd cr eate the worlds we see in vid eo games. I 
have worked hard f or ye ars to develop the skills and knowledge to build m y business, and h ave b een 
lucky enough to make a decent living a nd support my family – until recentl y.
The AI systems made b y Big Tech companies li ke O penAI (Microsoft) a nd Google threaten to 
destroy t housands of American small businesses li ke mine with their recent d emand to create 
special carve ou ts in copyright la w.
AI systems can o nly be produced by first training on work made by people. M y unique wo rk, and th e 
work of hundreds of thousands of other e veryda y American cr eators was taken and fed into these AI 
syste ms withou t our consent or a ny compensation . They ingest our wo rk, reassemble it, and then se ll 
it back to o ur clients – directly competing with us and cutting us out of the marketplace.
Now these B ig Tech co mpanies are a sking this administration to create excep tions and loophole s to 
make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal preceden t. They are 
suggesting that if a machine in gests and reproduces copyrighted work, it i s somehow suddenly “fair 
use”. 
They seem to believe that anything and everything o n the internet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be theirs for the taking . They claim that if this administration does not allow them to rewrite the 
law in this way, it will stifle American in novation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect . The purpose of American c opyright law is to protect 
the incentive t o create and innovate. 
If we the American people d o not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big 
Tech g iants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new innovative piece 
of com puter code, a n ew visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it immediately stolen by 


Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly make a living 
doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday 
Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the
incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic value,
so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, requiring
them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI
generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of 
hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


