PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3qu3-x299
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9576
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
AI no


From:
Sharon Kemmerer
Copy Center Worker
Re: National Science Foundation ’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am an everyda y American who owns a small visual design business which serves clients in the 
entertainment industry. I have worked hard for years to develop the skills and knowledge to build my 
business, and have been lucky enough to make a decent living and support my family – until recentl y.
The AI systems made by Big Tec h companies like OpenA I (Microsoft) and 
Google threate n to destroy thousands of America n small businesses like mine 
with their recent demand to create special carve outs i n copyright la w.
AI systems can only be pr oduced by first training on wor k made by people. My unique work, and the 
work of hundr eds of thous ands of other everyda y American creators was taken and fed into these AI 
systems without our consent or a ny compensati on. They ingest our wor k, reassemble it, and then sell it 
back to our c lients – directly competing with us and cutting us out of t he marketplace.
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and loopholes to make 
this practice of stealing American creators ’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggesting that if 
a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow suddenly “fair use”. 
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should be 
theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to rewrite the law in this 
way, it will stifle American innovation.
Inste ad, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of America n copyright 
law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big 
Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyda y Americans create a new innovative piece of 
computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it immediately stolen by 


Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly make a living doing 
these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators 
and everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective 
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the 
incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic value, so 
the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, requiring 
them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI systems, 
and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of 
thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


