PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-110v-llsa
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7041
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am  a professor or art and a freelance artist, loving and working in California. I have worked for years to develop m y business and the
skills and livelihoods of both m yself and m any students to enable careers in creative arts, including fine art, education, and entertainm ent
like film , video gam es, and com ics. 
The AI system s m ade by Big Tech com panies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy thousands of Am erican sm all
businesses including m y own and like those of all m y students with their recent dem and to create special carve outs in copyright law.
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. The consum ption of all this work to create AI system s
without our consent or any com pensation is a form  of theft. These com panies then flood the m arket with autom ated im age generation,
reassem bling and regurgitating the work of living, working people directly com peting with us and cutting us out of the m arketplace.
This theft is not “fair use.” It will stifle innovation as creative, innovative work by Am ericans is actively used to destroy our livelihoods in
the nam e of corporate profits. If everything posted online can be used to generate cheap, derivative replacem ents for our creative work,
there sharing work will be vastly disincentivized and such creative, innovative work will no longer be able to support Am erican workers. 
Further, a plan to rely on content generation software is plan to ruin the deep technical, procedural, and creative understandings that
Am erica needs in its work force. A worker who relies on AI is a worker who has a weaker understanding of m ath, science, engineering,
history, m edicine, etc. 
Want to protect Am erican innovation? Protect Am erican creators. Do not create new copyright exem ptions that allow Big Tech
com panies to exploit and steal from  creators and everyday Am ericans without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency.
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech com panies, but rather on ensuring a fair
m arketplace with com petition:
The governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, so that we can decide when and where our
work is used by AI system s.
Any AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is preserved. Our
work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech.
Material generated by this technology is effectively created by everyone whose work was used to build the software. It should never be
eligible for copyright protections. 
The AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their training
datasets, and label what content is AI generated.


AI system s will clearly have useful and powerful applications. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of
Am ericans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to com m ent on these im portant issues.


