PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-28b9-hgu2
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8399
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Dane Lorig  Email: 
General Comment
Please see the attached file.
Attachments
Dane Lorig Re_ AI Action Plan


From:
Dane Lorig
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for In formation o n the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) A ction Plan
I am a n everyday American who creates ar t as a hobby. I have worked hard for years to 
develop the skills and knowledge to expand on this hobby , and have b een lucky enough to 
garner a small online following fr om it, though I have had concerns about its viability a s of 
recently.
The AI systems made b y Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) a nd Google 
threaten to d estroy the businesses and livelihoods o f thousands o f Am erican creators 
like me with their recent demand to c reate special carve-outs in copyright law.
AI systems can o nly be produced by first training on work made by p eople . The work of 
hundreds of thousands of other everyday Am erican creators , and potentially even my own, 
has been taken and fed into these AI systems without our consent or any compensation . 
They ingest our work, reassemble  it, and then sell it back to clients – directly competing with 
us and cutting us out of the marketplace .
Now these B ig Tech co mpanies are a sking this administration to create exceptions a nd 
loopholes to m ake t his practice of stealing Am erican creators’ copyrighted work legal 
precedent. They are su ggesting th at if a machine ingests and r eproduces copyrighted work, it 
is somehow suddenly “fair use”. 
They s eem to believe that a nything and everything on the internet – regardless o f who 
owns it – should be theirs f or the taking . They claim t hat if this administration does n ot allow 
them to rewrite th e law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect . The purpose of American c opyright law is to 
protect t he in centive t o create and innovate. 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen 
by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create ? If everyday Americans create a new 
innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it 


immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How 
will we possibly make a living doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and 
everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
●First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems .
●Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that
the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense
economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original
creators , not just Big Tech.
●Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets , and label what
content is  AI-generated .
I am by no means anti-technology, but we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of 
thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting the very fundamentals of 
copyright law .
I deeply thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


