PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0zgf-u9d3
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7011
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
The United States governm ent should not be supporting the use of generative AI or LLMs nor should it support com panies like OpenAI.
These technologies have shown them selves to be totally unreliable and harm ful again and again. The use of this technology will only lead to
greater inefficiency in every aspect of public and private life. AI such as ChatGPT “hallucinates” false data m ore frequently than not.
Generative AI has created a virtual industrial revolution of m isinform ation and m anipulation, being used to create fake news, propaganda,
deep fakes, falsified evidence, and just straight up god awful “art”. 
There has been a handful of instances where LLMs have been useful such as its use in detecting cancerous cells or tracking research data
in the Am azon rainforest. However, in these cases, the LLMs used were trained on data sets containing only data, collected by
researchers knowledgeable about the area of study, relevant to the LLM’s assigned task such as being shown non-cancerous and
cancerous cells in order to identify subtle differences between the two. 
What datasets do m odels such as ChatGPT, Grok, Stable Diffusion, etc. use? They use copyrighted m aterial without perm ission from  the
copyright holder. The datasets used in these m odels are filled with stolen data. If the com panies responsible for these m odels wish to use
the copyrighted m aterial, they need to secure perm ission to do so from  the copyright holders. If the copyright holders do not give
perm ission for their m aterials to be used as training data, then it should not be used as training data. Instead of even asking to perm ission
to use the m aterials, the com panies behind these m odels sim ply scraped all the data they could find. They stole it. They stole it to train a
m odel to create hallucinations and slop and they’re selling it as the future. 
When challenged by courts about their theft, they say that their m odels require all that stolen data to continue. Maybe that’s true. It
doesn’t change the fact that the data was stolen, and following along with lawsuits shows that the courts m ostly see it as theft. To avoid
having to pay for their theft as well as trying to com pete with a foreign com pany with a sim ilar but cheaper and better product (although
still harm ful), they petition the Trum p Adm inistration to basically give them  im m unity. OpenAI CEO Sam  Altm an claim s it’s about national
security. It’s clearly not. He is trying to save his skin and ensure that he and his com pany continue to m ake m ore and m ore m oney off the
backs of creators. 
GenAI is cham pioned by liars, grifters, the greedy, the corrupt, and the just plain stupid. By supporting GenAI and believing in the lies
peddled by its owners, the US governm ent shows the world that it’s the sam e way.


