PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-vv3m -er1a
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3691
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Ariel Matthews  
General Comment
As an artist, I urgently oppose perm itting any AI to be trained freely on content that the owner of the AI does not own. My own work
loses m onetary value, which is largely based on perceived value due to its uniqueness, from  the AI copying of m y style and inform ation,
and I gain nothing from  that loss-- it's only bad for m e. If piggybacking off of m y hum an creativity is absolutely necessary to train AI, then
m y work has value, and sim ply stealing it runs contrary to the principles of com pensation for provided value upon which our capitalist
society is based. At best, it's plagiarism . At worst, it's intentional and knowing abuse of power in full understanding of the dam age that it
does to creators, ignoring our voices of dissent. Therefore, I absolutely do not give perm ission to use m y work to train AI without fair
com pensation and attribution that I consent to in advance of any AI training; in other words, it is theft to train AI on data that you do not
own and is not free for public use. The uncom pensated theft of our work by AI actively harm s the creators of the original content by
dim inishing our value, our copyright, and our ability to earn a livelihood as individuals. Ignoring our ownership of our own work in order to
use it for your own profit at our expense is illegal, and should rem ain so for anyone-- no exceptions. 
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution.


