PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-wgvh-tt1h
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3901
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Jam es O'Con nor 
General Comment
Generative AI has no valid uses whatsoever, as its only way of existence is by unethical theft of data produced by actual hum ans. It then
m ashes this data up and regurgitates it without regard to accuracy or truth, because it is fundam entally incapable of discerning m eaning in
its input or output. If you've ever been annoyed at your phone thinking you talk about ducks when you're angry, you are watching the
sm all scale version of the process that an AI uses: m atching its data to what it thinks is a best fit, ignoring what's actually going on -
regardless that it likely already knows how to spell the word you wanted. To m ake m atters worse, the program m ers of the autocorrect
have trained it that the word that resem bles "duck" is im proper, therefore it should never be suggested. This brings up additional problem s
with AI - whoever handles the data set can determ ine to a large extent what com es out, lim ited only by the AI's inherent stupidity. Want to
suppress inform ation? Don't include it in the data set. Want to m ake child pornography of anyone you want? That already happens!
Advances in AI will only m ake the child porn creation that m uch m ore efficient!
And lord help you if you're an artist or a writer, in which case the talentless hacks in silicon valley are clam oring to violate your IP rights so
they can burn rivers to m ake soulless drivel that looks or sounds vaguely like you.
AI is a poor solution with no problem s to solve, doesn't work without m assive outright theft, and it's unwanted anywhere it's im plem ented.
Make the AI datasets com pensate their data sources and respect IP boundaries. If this drives the AI into bankruptcy, then good. This is
Am erica. No participation trophies.


