PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-x93k-xls6
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4279
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Anna Daviscourt  
General Comment
This action plan is a terrible idea and should not have been proposed, and absolutely should not pass. There are m any far reaching
negative consequences for letting A.I. technology developers have free rein to steal any and all intellectual property for whatever purposes
they like. This would have devastating effects on creators, the concept of truth, and the physical well being of the planet.
I am  an artist and have already seen the wide spread loss of paying work for hum an creators- lost in favor of their own work being stolen
and used by those who clearly don’t value the purpose of creation. When there is a way for greed to feed off of people, it will do so.
There have to be protections put in place to give creators guards and m ethods of response when it inevitably happens. This action plan
would only hasten the dem ise of art, com m unication, and the soul of hum anity.
We have also already seen how generative A.I. can be m isused to create blatant and convincing lies. If you can m ake a video of anyone
saying and doing anything you can think of, where does the protection lie? This is pure gasoline to any propaganda fire. People tend to
trust their eyes, and you don’t often get the chance to set the record straight.
The environm ental im pact of the continued expansions of A.I. server farm s has been written about by countless journalistic outlets. The
water and power consum ption it takes to run the com puting powers behind these tech m achines is enough to power other countries
com pletely. When do we say enough? It should have been yesterday if we want to survive. Say it’s today. 
Say no to the horrifying action plan. Save what is left of art, truth, and our hom e.
Thank you.


