PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-wqny-k1ty
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4011
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Artificial Intelligence is a threat to artists and consum ers alike. It is understandable, in the pursuit of greater inform ational defense and the
general interest of technological evolution, to prioritize its developm ent as the next stage of m odern com puter science but the dangers they
present to the average artist and in fostering the creative spirit of the Am erican people are m ultifaceted. Visual learning m odels are rife with
proven accusations of IP infringem ent and of their ability to generate illegal explicit m aterial at a rate that would require entire team s of
hum an artists to produce. Secondarily, it has caused and will continue to cause great financial and em otional harm  to the artists that this
country has called on again and again to further our dom inant film  industry through Hollywood.
This is, of course, not to m ention the ram pant and explosive potential that such access to public use has and will cause. It contributes to
rapid and expansive m isinform ation, an epidem ic that has eroded trust in the various inform ation stream s that fuel social m edia. If these
com panies are allowed unfettered access to public data stream s without recourse, there is no m an, wom an, nor child that will be safe from
its reach. The artists will see their work reproduced without a cent to their nam e, the actor their likeness replicated without a claim  to their
im age, the m usician violated by the sam e m em bers of society that consum e their m usic without thought.
It is a world unim aginable and the creative spirit of the Am erican people will suffer. I, in no uncertain term s, oppose this decree and will
continue to resist these m echanism s with all m y ability. It is uniquely counter to the Am erican spirit and aids our position as a technological
superpower in no m eaningful way. It will divide us further.


