PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-197t-fgne
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7268
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: K Bryan
General Comment
While som e uses of artifical intelligence can help in term s or m edical advances as well as helping with weather patterns, in lim ited fashion, I
think that allowing Generative AI Com panies (like OpenAI) to use copyrighted m aterial for their m achines is both unacceptable and
downright terrible.
By using these m aterials, current creators of written work and illustrations, as well as even past literary authors and artists, will be
providing unpaid work and without recognition, thus denying their contributions to their fields. Because of this, com panies can create
terrible works of literature and art with awful looking pictures that look uncanny or out-of-place as well as written works with factual-
errors littered throughout, giving m isinform ation to m illions. They do this in all in the nam e of saving m oney, not realizing that it is the hum an
touch that gives them  their incom e and capital gains from  such works.
Ontop of that, there is also a real threat of using copyrighted m aterials with videos and sound to m anufacture false news stories and
events. That is why there should be rules and regulations in regards to AI. Giving com panies an unlim ited and unfettered access to
everything published (past and future) will dam age not only artists and writers but institutions and organizations that people turn to for
things beyond that of entertainm ent.
So, as som eone who wants a better future for all, do not allow this plan to carry through. Do not allow it to m ake it easier for those to use
generative AI and the m aterials it scrapes from  the internet and beyond. Do not allow those to use the works of others, ignoring it was
those with the skills, talent and desire to m ake such works, who m ade it possible for generative AI to work in the first place. And do not
allow this bill to give bad-actors an ability to m ake things worse for all through m isinform ation and distrust. Thank you.


