PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-55j0-aj37
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1408
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Janet 
Sasaki  
General Comment
To Whom  It May Concern,
AI deepfakes are a hazard in today's world and I urge the powers to be to NOT m ake deepfakes legal. 
Deepfakes are used to ruin reputations, careers, and fam ilies. With deepfakes, anyone can send a convincing video of a private or public
figure doing som ething or saying som ething they would not do or would never say to ruin them . Research dem onstrates that the rate of a
lie m oves faster than the truth, and m ore people are inclined to believe som ething the m ore they see it whether it is true or false. Most
people do not have the bandwidth to com bat a fake video of them selves and those that do will still have a public that widely believes the
deepfake is real.
Deepfakes have also been used to terrorize and destroy wom en and children. Men in Muslim  countries have created deepfakes of private
citizen girls and wom en and put them  in pornography, leading to honor killings of girls and wom en who had nothing to do with those
im ages being created of them . In the USA, m en use deepfakes as a form  of revenge porn, to terrorize wom en out of the public space and
dehum anize them  so that people don't see them  as "real." States across the country are introducing bills to add deepfake pornography to
their child pornography laws since pedophiles have used deepfake technology to place im ages of children in the real world into new
renderings. Anyone's child m ay be targeted for deepfake pornography, entirely without the knowledge of either the child or parent until
m uch later. 
As far as the argum ent of Free Speech goes, deepfakes are a form  of defam ation, of libel and slander in a video form . Everyone has the
right to express their views, but our defam ation laws are to balance that right to protect careers, reputations, finances, and health. People
who have deepfakes m ade of them  without consent risk losing their livelihood and m ay have their lives threatened due to the views
expressed with their im age that is not their own.
I urge you to NOT legalize AI deepfakes and m ake strict laws and guidelines on the grounds of protecting the public from  "com puter
generated defam ation."
Thank you for your consideration.
Sincerely,
Janet Sasaki 


