PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-6chg-6hzr
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1778
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Consum er Choice Center
General Comment
Com m ent attached.
Attachments
NSF-CCC-AI-Action-Plan


1 
A Consumer-Focused AI Action Plan 
 March 15, 2025 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development 
National Coordination Of ﬁce 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue,  
Alexandria, VA 22314, USA 
Comment on the Request for Information on the Development of an Arti ﬁcial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
The Consumer Choice Center is an independent, non-partisan consumer advocacy 
group championing the bene ﬁts of freedom of choice, innovation, and abundance in 
everyday life. We champion smart policies that are ﬁt for growth, promote lifestyle 
choice, and defend technological innovation. 
Herein, we will offer our comments on NSF, NITRD, and NSF’s development of an 
Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan, albeit from a consumer-focused perspective of 
users and promoters of AI technology. 
We offer several standing principles that should be central to any plan carried out by 
the Executive Branch and its agencies, as well as future areas of collaboration to 
ensure American citizens and consumers will have full access to the fruits of 
innovation in this space. 
Permissionless Innovation 
The United States must commit to empowering its markets and innovators by 
advancing permissionless innovation. In the past half-century, the most impactful 
inventions and technologies developed on American shores have emerged from the 
bottom-up, as self-maximizing entrepreneurs and industrialists have competed to 
feed consumer demand, employ talent, and deliver goods and services needed 
across the world.  
This status quo has provided dividends for American security and strength, allowing 
the country to become much nimbler and more adaptive while avoiding the pitfalls 
of centralized command and control as practiced in China. 
In allowing the unprecedented growth of the Internet through light-touch 
regulation for decades, the U.S. set global standards for tech and innovation. As a 
result, rules and regulations have emerged over time rather than been imposed by 
above, giving innovators the ample space and runway to develop both the hardware  
1 


2 
and software that consumers have come to rely on. We must avoid top-down 
regulatory approaches on AI and other technologies as they have been tried in blue 
states, which would only serve to stunt our growth. 
By shunning the precautionary principle, which hampers far too much innovation 
and growth elsewhere, the U.S. has embraced a system that rewards risk and 
punishes failures through market mechanisms rather than bureaucratic mandates. 
This unique system, matched with deep capital markets, stable rule of law, and 
protection of intellectual property, has made the U.S. the ideal launching pad for 
creative pursuits that have created vast amounts of wealth and opportunities. 
Recommendation: In adopting an approach to permissionless innovation and 
avoiding the pitfalls of the precautionary principle, any future AI plan must guard 
against the instinct to preempt new AI technology or models by requiring 
burdensome governmental approval or licensing before launch. Only under rare 
exceptions related to military applications or deemed extremely high-risk should this 
be avoided. 
Energy Supremacy 
As a nation blessed with vast natural resources, the United States must continue to 
allow the development of energy projects of all stripes to continue to feed electricity 
grids, but also to power the next generation of data centers, transportation, and 
industry. This will be pivotal to advantage for next-generation AI technology. 
Affordable and abundant energy will be a dominant force in freeing up the 
resources, time, and wealth for the economic and technological growth to remain 
competitive, as well as providing for the higher standard of living that will be 
demanded by the American population. For data centers and computing hubs, 
cheap energy will be requisite for maintaining an edge.  
While still maintaining environmental standards, removing red tape for pipelines, 
natural gas extraction, offshore wind, and nuclear energy will have to be viewed as an 
all-encompassing strategy to maintain the country’s energy supremacy and 
dominance. Outdated infrastructure will have to be replaced, and regulatory systems 
will have to be streamlined. 
Recommendation: Prioritization of redtape reduction for energy projects and an 
expansion of a diverse energy mix will allow entrepreneurs to create the 
infrastructure needed to power the AI revolution. Removal of barriers and 
fast-tracking of projects should be a necessity, as would approval for new energy 
technologies. 
2 


3 
Hardw are and chips The federal government should continue a careful approach to chip 
exports to undemocratic regimes. At the same time, the federal government should 
consider liberalizing the rules to ally nations, including European Union member states,, 
understanding that common market structures and economic incentives better align 
entrepreneurs and consumers in liberal democracies than outside this sphere. 
Recommendation: Continue to monitor export of AI-related hardware to authoritarian 
regimes, while prioritizing trade with ally nations with similar liberal democratic principles. 
Open source development vs model development  
As consumers continue to beneﬁt from open-source Large Language Models as well as 
proprietary models and products, the federal government should allow consumer 
competition to create the standards for this new era of technology, rather than codifying 
any requirements, structures, or computation limits into law. Allowing the best 
entrepreneurs to compete will deliver the most value for consumers who stand to gain 
from this technology. 
Recommendation: Continue light-touch approach toward open-source developers while 
allowing closed-source developers and deployers of AI technology similar regulatory clarity 
to launch products for both commercial and personal use. Allow competition to create 
standards, rather than federal statutes. 
Transatlantic cooperation 
The US should collaborate with ally countries, especially European Union member states, 
for a “Free Nation” corridor for simple technology, capital, and product exchange that 
removes barriers and enshrines innovation in the AI sector. With an open dialogue and 
standard to be shared among free nations, this will ensure continued beneﬁt to consumers 
and innovators in these nations, inﬂuencing and providing a model for nations that have 
yet to codify any AI policies into law. 
Recommendation: The creation of a “Free Nation” corridor with EU member states to align 
with the interests of other liberal democracies and better facilitate trade to beneﬁt 
consumers in the United States in beyond. 
Yaël Ossowski 
Deputy Director 
Consumer Choice Center 
3 


