PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-x4z4-kcer
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4223
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Andres Ventura  
General Comment
From:
Andres Ventura
Re: National Science Fou ndation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intel ligence (AI) Action Plan
I am an everyday American who appreciates the sm all busi nesses that make our cou ntry ru n, especial ly the artists, and I fear for 
their success if this Action Plan goes throu gh.
The AI systems made by Big Tech compan ies like Open AI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy thousands of American 
sm all  businesses with their recent demand to create special carve outs in copyri ght law.
AI systems can on ly be produced by first trai ning on work made by people. My unique work, and the work of hundreds of 
thousands of  other everyday American creators was taken and fed into these AI systems without our consent or any compensation. 
They ingest our  work, reassemble it, and then sell it back to our cl ients – directly competi ng with us and cutti ng us out of the 
marketplace.
Now t hese Big Tech co mpanies are ask ing this administration to create e xceptions and loopholes to make this pract ice of stea ling 
American creators’ cop yrighted work legal precede nt. They are s uggesting that if a machine ingests a nd reprod uces cop yrighted work, it 
is somehow suddenly “fair use”. 
They seem to be lieve that anything and everything on t he internet – re gardless of who owns it – should be t heirs for the taking. They claim 
that if this administration does not allow them to re write the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the oppos ite effect. The purpose of American cop yright law is to protect t he incentive to create a nd innovate. 
If we the American peop le do not own our creat ions, and everything we put online will be sto len by Big Tech giants, what will be the 
incentive to create? If e veryday Americans create a new innovative piece of co mputer code, a new visual des ign, or a new piece of music 
only to have it immediately stolen by Google and Microso ft, why bother creat ing it in the first place? How will we poss ibly make a living 
doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new cop yright exemptions that allow Big Tech 
companies to e xploit and steal from creators a nd everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or tra nspare ncy.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator co ntent to Big Tech co mpanies, but rather on e nsuring a fair 
marketp lace with competition:


First, the governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, so that we can decide when and where
our work is used by AI system s.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is
preserved. Our work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just
Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their
training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
I am  not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am  consistently im pressed by the capabilities of these AI system s, and find them  incredibly useful for
m any things. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Am ericans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting
copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to com m ent on these im portant issues.


