PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-28ja-al1s
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8103
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
I do not believe Large Language Model and Diffusion Model AI has a future as a transform ative technology in the United States or
indeed, the world. This technology by its very nature cannot ever be reliable or be capable of novel insight or inform ation--all it can do is
m ake probable guesses based on the data it has. Moreover, given the reckless speed with which this technology was released and hyped,
there is a large am ount of ai-generated data on the internet, which is then routinely scraped and put back into these m odels. This causes
m odel collapse. This technology is doom ed to devour itself and get worse over tim e, even if the U.S. m akes the idiotic m istake of giving
Open AI et al carte blanche on Copyright Violations. Does having access to every fram e of the Garfield Movie going to prevent cyber
attacks from  China? Will the contents of every self-published novel on Sm ashwords predict the next terrorist attack? No, it absolutely will
not. I'm  sure m achine learning has its place in specific applications with carefully curated data sets but attem pting to create som e sort of
com puter god by shoving all publicly visible content into data centers that strain the power grid in order to produce functionally useless
results like inventing court cases wholecloth or telling end users to put glue on pizza sim ply isn't rational or necessary. This technology is
trem endously expensive in a literal dollar sense and via externalities like power and water. It has not yet given a return on investm ent, and
it's sheer folly for this country to swoop in and prop up this sick horse as it falls to its knees. It's sim ply not worth throwing the nation's
culture in the form  of film s, art, m usic, and writing under the bus to do this. Let AI lie in its own grave.


