PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-x5px-t6if
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4229
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: L Carlson  
 
General Comment
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
The AI system s m ade by Big Tech com panies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy thousands of Am erican sm all
businesses with their recent dem and to create special carve-outs in copyright law.
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. The work of hundreds of thousands of everyday Am erican
creators was taken and fed into these AI system s without our consent or any com pensation. They ingest our work, reassem ble it, and then
sell it back to our clients – directly com peting with us and cutting us out of the m arketplace.
These Big Tech com panies are asking this adm inistration to create exceptions and loopholes to m ake this practice of stealing Am erican
creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They suggest that if a m achine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is suddenly “fair
use.”
They seem  to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim
that if this adm inistration does not allow them  to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle Am erican innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of Am erican copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate. Giving
AI organizations free rein to loot the com bined efforts of artists, authors, academ ics, scientists, and m uch m ore null and void any use for
having a copyright.
Will you allow them  to scrape the work of other big com panies as freely? Will Disney not be able to sue? HBO? DC Com ics? Or will you
protect those with the m oney to fight you only and let everyone else be thrown into the grinder?
AI cannot be allowed to steal. There are ethical ways of creating an AI. They sim ply do not want to put the m oney and effort into doing it
that way when they can scrape the entire internet and run away with their bags of stolen content.
Please do not allow this. You will kill the creative and innovative drive of the Am erican people, who will no longer have protections for
their work, nor the right to profit from  it, as the AI com panies gobble it all up.


