PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3vvt-wwfc
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9517
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Kristopher Yim 
General Comment
From :
Kristopher Yim
Digital Artist
27 Ocean Ave., Massapequa, NY 11758
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am  a professional digital artist, anim ator, and content creator writing to express m y deep concern for the direction of AI innovation and
m y strong belief that the US governm ent m ust establish com m on sense laws and regulations around the creation, training, and use of AI
technology. These requirem ents would not be "unnecessarily burdensom e," as described by the National Science Foundation's listing.
The im m ense and wanton scraping of data, text, im ages, and videos used to train AI not only violates fair use, but is dangerous. Several
news publications have reported that m ajor AI com panies like Stability AI Inc have trained their im age generators on unauthorized
m aterial, including copywrited m aterial and even private m edical im ages. This has prom pted stock photo provider Getty Im ages to sue
one such com pany, Stability AI Inc., according to a Reuters article titled "Getty Im ages lawsuit says Stability AI m isused photos to train
AI."
The Stanford Internet Observatory has even found, according to the Associated Press article titled "AI im age-generators are being trained
on explicit photos of children, a study shows," that thousands of child abuse m aterial has m ade its way to AI database LAION, which was
used to train Stable Diffusion.
It is m orally im perative that transparency is enforced through federal legislation. Tech com panies m ust create a system  that categorizes and
discloses their training m aterial for legal and ethical purposes.
I understand the benefit of a strong tech industry in Am erica. However, if AI com panies are allowed to train their m odels without any
restrictions whatsoever, with no heed to copyright laws or ethical standards whatsoever, there would be irreparable long-term  dam age to
the m any creative industries that are thriving in this country, and the im m ense talent pool behind it.
Thank you for your tim e.


