PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1m 2y-t59k
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7886
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Lorenzo Hall  
Email: 
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
PublicCom m ent


From:
Lorenzo Hall
Author and Creative Writer
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for In formation o n the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) A ction Plan
I am a n everyday American who wo rks in a creative field. My trade for majority o f my adult life 
has been related to creating o riginal works. It’s a skill that takes time a nd training b eyond jus 
typing down words, but knowing how to use them e ffectively. Whether it’s evoking strong visu als 
within th e minds of readers or kn owing how to reach t hem emotionally, it is all part of work that 
had to come from b oth a desire to do that work and the time invested in to it. Tha t ultimately 
culminate d in my books being published as well as outside wo rk I have done. Yet, the way 
current LLM m odels are expected to operate, that would result in my work and m y creations 
being potentially stolen with no compensation, much less a way to pursue legal action if that 
theft comes to pass.
As of right now, the AI systems made b y Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) a nd 
Google threaten t o disenfranchise a nd st eal from people wit h specialized skills, like 
myself, with their recent d emand to create special carve o uts in copyright law.
AI systems can o nly be produced by first training on work made by people. M y own wo rk, and 
the work of hundreds of thousands of other e veryday American cr eators was taken and fe d into 
these AI systems without our co nsen t or any compensation. They inge st our work, reassemble 
it, and then se ll it back to o ur clie nts – directly competing with us and cu tting us out of the 
marketplace. In a country that boasts about law and o rder, inaction o n behalf of people who’ve 
had their intellectu al propery pilfered is unacceptable as well as shameful.
Now these Big Tech companies are a sking this administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to m ake th is practice of stealing A merican cr eators’ copyrighte d work legal precedent. 
They are suggesting th at if a machine in gests and reproduce s copyrighted wo rk, it is somehow 
suddenly “fa ir use.”


They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to 
rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.  Instead, it will have the opposite 
effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and 
innovate. 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen 
by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new 
innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it 
immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will 
we possibly make a living doing these things? Even for someone who is dismissive of the arts, 
one has to understand that it will lead to a more feeble populace. If no one knows how to write 
without machine assistance then how will they develop the skills to articulate spoken wors, 
much less understand and perform tasks that machines are incapable of. If no one is able to 
create or appreciate music, then who would take time to learn even patriotic songs like the 
national anthem? Even  then, if no one has a way to create safely and develop their skills and 
make a living, then even major companies will eventually die out as no one will form the skills to 
work in those locations in future years. It is, in essence, a short term and ill-gotten gain with long 
term harm for America and Americans.
If you want to protect American innovation, then protect American creators. Do not create new 
copyright exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators 
and everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems, as
well as a legal means for restitution if that work is stolen without our consent.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that
the incentive to create for small businesses and individuals is preserved. Our work has
immense economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the
original creators, not just Big Tech.


Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what
content is AI generated.
We should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away 
to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.


