PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-tpz3-t5yo
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3285
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Good day to you!
I wanted to reach out and ask you to consider a logical and m oral fallacy of cutting down regulations to further innovation in AI in
com petition with countries such as China. 
To m y knowledge, Google and OpenAI wish to train their m odels on intellectual property and other data not under their ownership; ergo,
scraping from  people regardless of their consent or not. 
Is this not a violation of United States Copyright law? And a bare-faced one at that? Som e random  YouTuber under 500 subscribers can
get copyright striked for including a half-second clip from  a Warner Brothers m ovie, but two of the largest tech com panies of today can
leech off of people's creative work (of which those people sacrifice a lot of tim e, energy, and in several cases m oney to craft) and train
their AI on them  with intent to replace hum an effort for lower costs and newer heights at the expense of the livelihoods of the artists they
scrape with no fear of repercussions?
If such is allowed, then piracy is an endeavor that need not be a crim e. What is the point of copyright if intellectual property can be used
to train a robot to replace it whether the owner of said property is on board with such or not?
I do not presum e that any of this m ight sway you com pletely, however, I hold a tiny bit of hope that you m ight take what I said into
consideration. At least, som e of it. So m any people are done with the absurd m edical expenses and student loan debt, the broken
education system , the rapidly rising rent prices and cost of living, and so m uch m ore. By giving the green light, you will not only alienate
artists and other creatives but also m any ordinary people whose personal photos and other inform ation will be used without perm ission for
tech that can and has been used for m alicious purposes before. Eventually, their patience will run dryer than the Atacam a. The first stone
will be thrown, and the gates will fly open and right off their hinges. And nothing will put them  back on.
Please m ake the right decision. Don’t handicap the people even m ore.


