PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-hyhu-q7pg
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2145
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
I dont believe ai has any place in the future of am erica as it is predatory against artists and will be, and has been, used to blindly
discrim inate against hum an beings by the governm ent already. It gets rid of people m aking decisions and creating in order for soulless
robots to do it. This is dangerous and anyone who cant see that is intentionally being ignorant for m oney. Itll be used for evil, m ark m y
words.
Do you want your nam e to be associated with evil in the future ? Do you not care about your legacy as people? You cannot give in to
facism , and ai will be one of the m any building blocks to the facist agenda run by the m ost powerful people in the world right now in order
to treat people without hum anity for power and m oney. Dont bend the knee to evil, grow a spine people. 
You KNOW that ai will put people out of work in order for m illionares to m ake m ore m oney without hiring people who could do the job.
Theres already been articles written about the state departm ent using ai to revoke the visas of students who appear "pro-ham as" which is
HORRIFYING for m any reasons. theyre searching their social m edia accounts which is such an abuse of power, you KNOW these "pro
ham as " supporters probably are just PRO PALESTINE and ANTI GENOCIDE. 
You can not be com placent with this insanity. Am erica should be firm ly against ai, which will be the downfall of hum anity. Dont take m y
word for it, take Steven Hawking's. "Hawking cautioned against an extrem e form  of AI, in which thinking m achines would “take off” on
their own, m odifying them selves and independently designing and building ever m ore capable system s". 
We are already too late in our fight against Ai to put an end to it before it gets large, but ai m ust be stopped. It needs to be heavily
regulated to keep hum an beings at the forefront of hum anity. Exploitative Deep fakes are being m ade of innocent people, artists are being
put out of jobs, ai is being used to blindly discrim inate against people, and it WILL be the downfall of am erica. Dont let this happen to us.


