PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 13, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 87-qkg7-ypkc
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1213
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Marla 
Barker  
General Comment
While m achine learning has a place in our world, generative AI does not.
Generative AI is corporate m alfeasance on a truly grand scale; it enables the theft of work from  working artists everywhere, com pensates
them  for next-to-nothing, and (when left in the wild) com plicates literally every part of electronic life by its very existence. The presence of
a credible picture (however anatom ically incorrect) of som e anim al will be used as a reference, with its user not realizing it was generated
by m achine. GenAI is notoriously bad at answering questions, and in fact in when used in health system s, it frequently fails to pick up even
the m ost obvious injuries or clearest changes in a patient. In education, GenAI hallucinates, m akes up events and dates, and creates
credible covers for itself, polluting research on the Internet on literally any subject with data utterly unm oored from  reality, and confidently,
effortlessly wrong.
GenAI is pollution posing as progress. The big com panies who invest in it only do so in order to appear 'im portant' to som e process or
another, to receive support from  a big IPO, to win governm ent contracts; it is pure technical snake oil. There is no value, no
dem ocratization, no use whatsoever for this technology in its current state.
I believe in m achine learning. I believe that there are good reasons to use neural nets in order to find patterns in otherwise im possibly
com plicated data. There *are* good uses for synthetic intelligence as a general rule, and I even believe that it is hum anity's destiny to
create life in this way.
This is not it.
This is theft, exploitation, and the further brutalization of a creative class which has been stripped of any of its form er im portance. GenAI
cannot create or share beauty; it cannot share em otion in the way that hum ans can, since it has no em otions, no experiences, to share.
When AI answers a query like 'why do people pet cats', it can answer with som ething like 'because it feels good and causes a positive
horm one response'; this is true. That said, it has never felt those things; all it has ever done is put an enorm ous am ount of data through a
heuristic algorithm  at a catastrophic ecological and financial cost (to say nothing of ethics). It can, however, never have pet a cat. It has no
experiences; if enough people say som ething truly insane, or the black box which m akes up the GenAI's thought process sim ply com es up
with som ething unhinged from  reality, is it as confident there as ever.
It pollutes our m inds. It reduces the im pact of our art and writing. It furthers the vicious cycle which says that the only thing that m atters is
technology, and that art, writing, and the sharing of that which m akes us hum an are all 'not real jobs', or 'fit to be replaced'.
This is not so. Hum an culture will never com e out of a m achine in this way, and flattening the soul of our species into bad artwork and
queasy, hallucinatory prose im poverishes us all, even GenAI's proponents.
The bubble is bursting: look at how desperate these com panies are to be protected from  the results of their theft, how Microsoft is pulling
back out of m any of its GenAI-supporting datacenter acquisitions. Billions upon billions of dollars have been 'used' in the sense that they
have been extracted, heaped into a pile, and set on fire for som ething which doesn't understand even the m ost basic question, -any- sense
of relational or objective reality, or anything else. It is useless. It is harm ing us. Its creators are stealing from  us in order to do it.


I call for nothing less than a ban on generative AI.
There are enough sources of exploitation in our lives; GenAI does nothing but steal from  us bigger, faster, and at a far greater cost to our
ecosystem , all in the nam e of building som ething we call wealth while, in the process, it burns the very natural resources that we cannot
replace: drinkable water, fuel, clean air, data and electricity transportation, literally every kind of real resource which hum ans need to live
and thrive.
It's a nightm are. It is the enem y of hum anity, not in the sense of som e Bollywood Term inator pastiche, but rather as a clear and present
danger to our m inds, our hearts, our ability to connect to and relate with one another, and the environm ents in which we live. A real, actual
problem , contributing to clim ate change in order to produce literally nothing of value. It is a m achine m ade to burn m oney, the result of so
m any flim -flam  m en in tech who are grasping at the next 'big' thing, despite the fact that not even one of them  has a clue how to continue,
or what to do about the existential threats we, not only as a country but as a species, face.


