PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-5uyn-9dsa
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1421
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Am erican National Standards Institute
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
ANSI AI RFI Response_Final_3-14-25


March 1 4, 2025 
Re:  ANSI In put into FR Doc.2025-02305, Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
On behalf of the U.S. private-sector-led voluntary standardization community , the American National 
Standards Institute (ANSI)  welcomes the opportunity to provide input into the developm ent of the 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (“Plan”). Our recommendations respond  to the Request for 
Information from the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) 
National Coordination Office (NCO), National Science Foundation, on behalf of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) , FR Doc. 2025 -02305. 
As coordi nator of the U.S. private-sector -led standardization system, ANSI’s mission is to enhance the 
global competitiveness of U.S. business and U.S. quality of life. Through our membership, we represent 
the interests of more than 270,000 companies and organizations and 30 million professionals worldwide. 
ANSI suppor ts OSTP’s efforts to identify priority policy a ctions to sustain and enhance America’s AI 
leadership and ensure that private-sector AI innovation  is not hampered by unnecessarily burdensome 
requirements . Effective , voluntary  standards and conformity assessment solutions  are vital to advanc ing 
rapidly -evolving , cross-cutting, and transformative technology areas such as AI— demanding leadership, 
investment, and public-private collaboration.  
To balance o pportunities and risks in AI deployment, we recommend that the new AI Action Plan 
prioritize private-sector -led standardization efforts  that involve the participation of all affected 
stakeholders, including government. These efforts include  developing and deploy ing technical and 
safety standards and related conformity assessment solutions that address  key areas : AI risk hierarchies, 
accep table risks, and tradeoffs; data quality, provenance, and governance; security; and benchmarks, 
testing, monitoring, and risk management. Where appropriate, public -private partnerships can speed 
deployment of new AI applications and systems.  
For conside ration in the Plan, we offer details on the current state, plans, challenges, and opportunities 
for engagement in AI standardization and share input on characteristics of successful standards-driven 
public -private partnerships.  
U.S. Stand ards Syst em: a Driver of Innovation  
For more than a century,  the private -sector -led U.S. standards system has produced results that are 
the envy of the world— empower ing the performance, safety,  security,  and interoperability of  nearly 
every product, process, and service. Importantly, the standards that result are created through private -sector -led processes  and reflect marketplace needs . Where the U.S. government determines 
that regulations are necessary, it will very often be able to incorporate by reference a voluntary 
consensus standard into law at no cost to the taxpayer, allowing for realization of efficiencies .  


Notab ly, these savings are the result of Congressional wisdom in adopting the National Technology 
Transfer and Ad vancement Act of 1995, pursuant to which Congress d irected government agencies to 
use technical standards that are developed or adopted by voluntary consensus standards wherever 
possible (avoiding development of unique government standards), and to participate with such bodies 
in the development of relevant  standards.  
The contin ued health and resilience of the U.S. economy is directly related to  investment and 
confidence in our standards system. As emerging technologies such as AI reshape global markets, collaboration between the U.S. government and industry in standards -setting is critical to advancing 
our national interests and U.S. global  leader ship.  
AI is not ju st one technology , but rather, a variety of software - and hardware-enabling technologies 
(e.g., machine learning, deep learning, knowledge representation) that can be applied in various ways in a potentially unlimited number of applicati ons across industries.  In their breadth, complexity,  and 
versatility, today’s advanced AI models  (such as Large Language Models, or LLM)  are unlike previous 
technologies and systems. The models are moving targets because they are developing rapidly  through  
breakthroughs in machine learning, continuous learning, and additional data. As such, AI models 
require extensive and continuous monitoring by developers, deployers, policymakers, and experts.
1 
Robust standards and conformity assessment programs can play an important role in managing the 
risks of AI models without  hampering private-sector innovation.  
The Value  and Contributions of AI Standards -driven Public -Private Partnerships  
The U.S. has a long history of standards -driven public -private partnerships. When properly designed 
and executed, these partnerships  can accelerate the assessment of  standardization needs in a 
particular industry or technology area , and demonstrate innovative, high-impact approaches to 
address th ose needs. This creates efficiencies for both government and private-sector stakeholders. 
Critical to the success of public -private  partnerships are: h aving a clear mission  addressing a well -
defined problem, motivated partners, a governance framework, mechanisms to engage other 
organizations (including standards developers), and committed resources. 
In July 2024, ANSI hosted a brainstorming session2 on challenges related to artificial intelligence 
/machine learning involving s takeholders from industry, standards development organizations, 
government, and academia . The session was part of a larger project exami ning  the use of public -private 
partnerships to support standards development, the role of government in the related activities, key 
elements of effective collaborative mechanisms, and information sharing needs for addressing 
standardization for key technologies . Ultimately, the examination resulted in a report , Enabling 
Standards Development Through Public -Private Partnerships , which outlines  five standar ds-driven 
public -private partnership models, several associated  use cases, and notional concepts of standards 
readiness. 
AI Standards -Related Activities  
Standards -related activities relevant to AI and AI Leadership are detailed below: 
Assessing and Ma naging AI Risk and Safety: A Voluntary, Standards -Based Approach  
1 See https://www.brookings.edu/articles/network -architecture -for-global -ai-policy/  
2 The effort was performed under a cooperative agreement with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).  


ANSI re commends that the AI Action Plan take into account the flexible approach to AI risk 
management outlined in the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s (NIST) AI Risk 
Management Framework (AI RM F). Developed with extensive private -sector input , the  AI RM F 
is not intended to be a one -size -fits-all approach ; rather, it is adaptable to varying levels of risk. 
It is intended for voluntary use and to improve the ability to incorporate trustworthiness 
considerations into the design, development, use, and evaluation of AI products, services, and 
systems. NIST also published  a companion NIST AI RMF Playbook along with an AI RMF 
Roadmap, AI RMF Crosswalk , and various Perspectives . The RMF points to voluntary standards 
for important details , and elements of the RMF are reflected in existing ISO/IEC standards.  
In July 2024, NIST released  NIST-AI -600- 1, Artificial  Intelligence Risk Management Framework: 
Generative Artificial Intelligence Profile . The profile can help organizations identify unique risks 
posed by generative AI and proposes  actions for generative AI risk management that best 
aligns with a user’s goals and priorities. The Framework and Profile are supported by voluntary 
standards.  
Cross-Cuttin g Global AI Standards Activities  
Broader participation in developing AI standards through global bodies like ISO and IEC assures these standards address diverse needs across different regions and contexts. ANSI is the official U.S. representative to ISO and, through ANSI’s U.S. National Committee, the IEC. 
ISO and IEC a re private, voluntary international organizations that publish a wide range of 
international standards in the area of artificial intelligence. This includes the cross -cutting work 
of ISO/IEC Joint Technical Committee 1 (JTC 1) , Information Tec hnology, Subcommittee 42, 
Artificial Intelligence,3 as well as work in a variety of technical committees focusing on specific 
sectors. Within the scope of JTC 1/SC 42, published standards address concepts and 
terminology; management systems ; governance implications on the use of AI; guidance on risk 
management; overviews of trustworthiness, bias, ethical and societal concerns; and assessments of robustness. The U.S. chair s SC 42, and ANSI serves as Committee Manager.   
It is also w orth noting that many AI-related specifications are being or will be developed in 
industry consortia; implementation activities often take place under the umbrellas of consortia or fora. These activities include the development and deployment of datasets, benchmarks, reference implementations, implementation guidance, verification and validation tools, and 
conformity assessment procedures. Important work is being done in a wide range of industry -led consortia  and other informal 
groups , including MLCommons, AI Alliance, Digital Trust Forum, Responsible AI Institute, the 
Partnership for AI , and Frontier Model Forum.  
Sector -Focused AI Standards and Tools  
In industries that are coming to rely heavily on AI, sector -specific standards projects are 
beginning to emerge . We note that such work is  currently  underway or planned by a number of 
ANSI-accredited standards developing organizations whose work is recogniz ed globally . Some of 
this work is intended to result in American National Standards (ANS) or to be submitted to ISO or IEC committees  for approval as international standards.  
3 See https://www.iso.org/committee/6794475/x/catalogue/p/0/u/1/w/0/d/0  for the complete work program of SC  42. 


To advance  U.S. standardization goals in AI, ANSI is pleased to offer assistance to OSTP in 
engaging U.S. -based standards developers on sector-specific AI standards work —including but 
not limited to ANSI -accredited standards developers  and U .S.-headquartered industry consortia , 
as well as  groups or individuals working on behalf of th e U.S. through Technical Advisory Groups 
(TAGs) to ISO and IEC . 
See Annex A for  a listing of the organizations that submitted affirmative responses to ANSI 
regarding AI- related work.  
Recommendat ions for Prioritizing Federal Engagement in AI Standardizati on 
The effectiveness of the U.S. standardization system in enabling innovation depends on continued 
private -sector leadership and public  sector engagement. In our market-driven system, the federal 
government helps to  enabl e AI innovation in several ways: foundational research (both sector -specific 
and cross -sectional); coordination; education; and participation in standards development as one of 
many stakeholders. 
When engaging i n standards development activities, agencies should ensure effective intra- and inter -
agency coordination. They should take into account the impact of their standards -related choices on 
innovation and the global competitiveness of U.S. enterprises. To the extent feasible and appropriate, 
agencies should provide continuous support for their technical experts’ participation and leadership activities in mission-critical standards- setting activities to maintain adequate resource levels thr oughout 
the standards development lifecycle. 
ANSI recommen ds that the federal government continue to prioritize engagement in the development 
of AI technical standards and tools that have broad, cross -sectoral applications. These include 
terminology stand ards, data reference architectures, safety and security -related standards, and 
standards related to bias in AI systems. Having these types of  standards and tools in place will enable 
more rapid development of application -specific standards and tools as follow- on activities.  
In the federal  space, potential applications of AI technology vary  as widely as individual federal agency 
missions.  NIST can assist in coordinating across the federal enterprise to identify and prioritize the 
federal government’s AI standards needs. This can help generate greater support for such standards 
development efforts.  
About the American National Standards Institute 
As coordinator of the U.S. private-sector -led standardization system, ANSI’s mission is to enhance both 
the global competitiveness of U.S. business and the U.S. quality of life by promoting and facilitating 
voluntary consensus standards and conformity assessment systems, and safeguarding their integrity. 
ANSI is a federation whose members are  government agencies, trade associations, standards developing 
organizations, professional societies, companies, academic and international bodies, and consumer 
organizations. Through our membership, ANSI represents the interests of more than 270,000 companies 
and organizations and 30 million professionals worldwide. 
ANSI is the sole U.S. representative to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), and , 
through the U.S. National Committee (USNC), to the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC). 


ANSI promotes the use of U.S. standards internationally, advocates U.S. policy and technical positions in 
international and regional standards organizations, and encourages the adoption of international 
standards as national standards where they meet the needs of the user community.  
ANSI is active in a number of public - and private -sector partnership activities across the globe that 
provide U.S. industry engagement opportunities with emerging economies on standards, trade, 
infrastructure, and good regulatory practices. 
ANSI also initiates standardization  collaboratives, partnerships, and workshops in areas vital to U.S. 
interests and priorities —often in cutting -edge industries and emerging technology sectors. 
For more information, visit www.ansi.org . 


Anne x A:  Affirmative Responses from A NSI Accredited Standards Developers (ASDs) with AI -Related 
Sector -Focused Work  
Alliance  for Telecommunications Industry S olutions  
Carroll Gray -Preston (
American De ntal Association  
Sharon Stanford (
American N uclear Society  
Pat Schroeder (
American So ciety for Nondestructive Testing  
Michele Thomas (
American So ciety of Safety Professionals  
Tim Fisher (
American T ype Culture Collection  
Amber Day (
Associat ion for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation  
Matt Williams (
B11 Stand ards Inc.  
David Felinski (
Canadian Stan dards Association  
Peter Glowacki (
Consumer Tec hnology Association  
Kerri Haresign (
Dental Sta ndards Institute  
Bryan Laskin (
Electrical  App aratus Service Association  
Mike Howell (
Healthcar e Standards Institute  
Dr Veronica Edwards (
Haven Boisjo ly (
Human Facto rs and Ergonomics Society 
Steven C. Kemp (
Institute f or Credentialing Excellence  


Liz D ombrowski (
Internationa l Society of Automation  
Eliana Brazda (
InterNation al Committee for Information Technology Standards 
Lynn Barra (
National Council for Prescription Drug Programs  
Margaret Weiker (
National In formation Standards Organization  
Todd Carpenter (
National M arine Electronics  
Mark Oslund (
OASIS Open  
Jim Cab ral (
Parenteral Dr ug Association  
Christine Roberts (
Project Ma nagement Institute  
Tzarmallah Joseph (
SAE Interna tional  
Bill Gouse (
Society of C able Telecommunications Engineers  
Dean Stoneback (
UL Standa rds & Engagement  
Glauci Fernandes (
ASC X9, Inc.  
Steve Stevens (


