PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-xnej-sbjl
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4534
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
Hi! The only world that AI has any place in is the one that a sm all, tiny fraction of a fraction of hum anity dream s of. One where people's
creativity is suctioned and gobbled up and regurgitated back out for the lowest possible effort and highest possible profit, with absolutely
zero care taken. It's a m ockery of the hum an spirit.
As I believe the point of this is to decide whether or not to allow big AI to be trained on copyrighted data, I'll also bring up the fact that in
ANY other circum stance, there would (or should) be MASSIVE punishm ents dealt out for using copyrighted m aterial in this way.
Especially any individual person doing it on their own and using the m aterial of a m assive corporation. Why should these corporations get
to skirt the rules? I'm  absolutely livid that they even have the AUDACITY to think they deserve special treatm ent here, and I'm  trying m y
hardest to keep this text box as clean as I am . Absolutely no consideration should even be given to the possibility that these parasites are
given carte blanche to the entirety of hum an history and creativity just so they can create ghostly, lifeless facsim iles of it. AI should be so
heavily regulated, disregarding the harm  to creativity that it poses for a m om ent, considering the extrem e environm ental effects alone. 
All of that said and all that anger expressed, I thank you for taking the tim e to take these com m ents into consideration. Hopefully m y
words are powerful enough to have even the tiniest sway.


