PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0nug-rje9
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7033
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Benjam in Lantrip  
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
AIOrder_publiccom m ent


March 14, 2025
From:
Benjam in Lantrip
Game Developer
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request fo r Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI ) Action Plan
I am an everyday Americ an whose passio n is develo ping entertainment software. I alongside 
artists a nd many other individuals whose v isual designs he lp make game s great. I have the 
privilege of cal ling many of these people friends and colleague s, which is why the recent 
executive order o n AI h as m e deeply concerned.
The AI systems mad e by B ig Tech companies lik e OpenAI (Microsoft) and Goog le th reaten to 
destroy thousands of American sma ll businesses lik e mine with their recent demand t o create 
specia l carv e outs in copyright la w.
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work made by people. The unique work of 
hundre ds of thousands of everyday American creators was taken and fed into these AI systems 
without our consent or any compensation. They ingest our work, reassemble it, and then sell it 
back to our clients – directly competing with us and cutting us out of the marketplace.
Now these B ig Tec h companie s are asking this administratio n to create exceptions and 
loophole s to make this practice of stealing Am erican creator s’ copyrighte d work legal 
precedent. They are suggesting that if a m achine ingest s and r eproduce s copyrighted w ork, it is 
somehow suddenly “fair use ”. 
They seem to believe that anything and e veryt hing on the internet – regardless of who ow ns it – 
should be their s for the taking. They claim that if t his administratio n do es not allow them to 
rewrite the law i n this way, it will stifle Americ an inno vation.
Instead , it will have the opposit e effect . The purpos e of A merican copyrigh t law is to p rotect 
the incentiv e to c reate and innovate. 
If we the Americ an people do not ow n our creatio ns, and everything we put online w ill be 
stole n by Bi g Tech giant s, what w ill be the incentive to create ? If everyday Americ ans c reate a 


new innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to 
have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? 
How will we possibly make a living doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday 
Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective 
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the 
incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic 
value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not 
just Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, 
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what 
content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard 
work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright 
law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


