PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-wk3z-5qth
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3934
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
I am  writing to ask that the governm ent deny OpenAI the ability to train on copyrighted m aterial.
I don’t understand why decades of copyright law are suddenly out the window just because one com pany claim s that they can’t deliver on
their goals unless they’re able to violate it. If OpenAI as a com pany is unable to deliver on its goals, on their own term s, then why should
they be given extra help to succeed? Is this really aligned with our country’s great history of industry? The core of the Am erican dream  is
that you’re able to m ake your own way, on your own term s. This is also essential to the spirit of capitalism . But now, again, here is a
com pany like OpenAI claim ing that they’re incapable of developing an effective product, unless they’re able to steal from  copyrighted
works. This m akes no sense to m e.
Why can’t they source from  public works, that have m oved out of copyright dom ain? Why is this brand new industry, which has yet to
prove itself, allowed to skirt laws and norm s that have applied through copyright law? Can’t we at least put laws into place first, where
creators can sign an agreem ent for their works to be used for AI training? Wouldn’t it m ake sense to allow a creator to benefit from  their
own work, in the sam e way that m ovie studios m ust sign contracts first, before m oving forward with an adaptation/production.
I think it’s prem ature, and that OpenAI is overstepping as a com pany. I think if the governm ent perm its this, they open them selves up to
additional lawsuits, which could be avoided if they were willing to work with creators first, rather than taking directions from  a single
com pany. I will also add that a recent case, Reuters vs. Ross Intelligence, ruled against AI’s access to copyright law. There is also
currently an ongoing case with Meta. With these as established precedent, I can’t see how this doesn’t lead to further litigation, and a huge
waste of governm ent tim e and resources while trying to decide on a request that has already been cem ented via copyright law.
Please deny OpenAI’s request to train on copyrighted m aterial. Please consider the im plications of this sort of request, and the am ount of
power and license you are considering handing over to a single corporation. Thank you so m uch for your tim e.


