PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: February 07, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 6v-dqso-5j7m
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-0842
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
Set up social safety nets to protect all citizens by equally distributing the value provided by AI to everyone. What is the point of
accelerating AI developm ent if the vast m ajority of citizens will not be able to reap the benefits?
In sim pler term s, AI will lead to a m assive loss of jobs, and ideally free up a lot of tim e to pursue interests that are not rooted in econom ic
interest. This is not necessarily a bad thing, as long as there are social program s in place to provide for those whose who have been
displaced. As it currently stands, the only people that stand to benefit are CEOs/billionaires sim ply because Am erica's strategy to ensure
continued contributions to society at scale is to direct provision of basic necessities to corporations (retirem ent funds, healthcare, ability to
pay rent/m ortgages, etc). AI replaces workers. CEOs still profit from  the work being done, without having to pay for said work. What
happens to the workers?
We have an unbelievable opportunity to perm anently bridge the wealth gap by decoupling hum an labor from  technical knowledge, or
perm anently widen the chasm  with no hope of building a bridge. Am erica has always been founded upon the principle that anybody should
be able to m ake a nam e for them selves, but if you take away the opportunities for people to rely on their skillsets and knowledge, then a
vast m ajority of citizens will be ruined because everything in Am erica costs m oney, and that m oney has historically com e from  working a
job. You can soften this blow by categorizing the dom ain knowledge/roles/jobs that will never be replaced by AI, and rewarding those
who excel at them  to redistribute workforce specialization.
I hope the federal governm ent stands by its com m itm ent to the populace to better us all by setting up an appropriate stage when AI is
ready to be a drop-in replacem ent for the m ajority of jobs.


