PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: February 10, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 6z-4ho3-ucwm
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-0848
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Com psim  LLC
General Comment
Governm ent solicitations are biased towards ML/LLM/Generative AI to the extent that the governm ent does not consider new
approaches to AI.
Attachments
AI Not Necessarily Machine LearningRev2


AI is Not N ecessarily Machine Learning  
The original pro blem definition of Artificial Intelligence was simply to deliver intelligent behavior.  
How that in telligence was developed was not important; only the capability was important.  
Learning, o r machine learning specifically, was added by organizations that collected massive amounts 
of information and were looking for ways to exploit that capability for profit.  
Is the foc us on Machine Learning anything more than the result of the Machine Learning suppliers 
repeating the words “Big Data” and “Machine Learning” over and over again?   
Perhaps t heir approach is to insert those patterns into the brains of business executives in the same way 
that marketing organizations  repeatedly  force their ideas into the public as facts.    
Is it the ho rse driving the cart again?  
Are the c onsulting companies promoting Machine Learning as the dominant form of AI today blindly 
riding that horse?    
Where is the c onsumer of AI defining the need , and what they value, from AI ? 
Where is the  consumer of AI demanding certain capabilities that , if they are not there, would block a 
particular approach?    
Where is t he list of AI “buying factors” that should contribute to the selection of an AI approach? 


The f ollowing list itemizes some  factors that should be considered ( and be referenced and measured ) 
for their value  in applications requiring Artificial Intelligence (AI) behaviors .  All RFQ’s should be 
measured and evaluated for their capability importance, potential reuse, life -cycle cost/value, and 
schedule impact.   
•identification of forms of outputs and targets of outputs from the AI
omachines delivering safety -critical decisions and/ or actions ( as in autonomous weapon
systems)
otextual output to satisfy humans
•ability, not only to provide answers, but  to explain why alternatives are not appropriate
•suitability for real- time adaptive control
•ability to easily create a hierarchy of expertise  (systems of systems)
•capability of intelligent systems to self- organize and work as teams
•safety of systems (testable and auditable)
•ability to support hand ling multiple (sometimes conflicting) problems at the same time
•certification requirements (code  AND  application certification)
•traceable behavior (Explainable AI) , including ease of use
•exposed value system  for all influencing factors (a requirement for Explainable AI)
•support for after- mission reviews of production systems , including ease of use
•ability to support existing platforms/applications  to extend the life of existing applications
•production memory requirements for embedded systems , if that is important
•production dependencies , if any (software / hardware)
•architecture independence (device, software application, web service)
•extensibility so the AI can easily evolve with new capabilities and new information sources
•flexibility, so one can create  system s that can handle slightly different problems in slightly
different ways
•adaptable, so systems can respond to situations (combinations of problems) they have never
encountered before
•personalization for different users  (different users may have slightly different needs)
•support for executive tuning where the person in charge may have different views of the
importance  of different pieces of information
•design -once -deploy -many (ability to take a behavioral policy and deploy it in multiple
production platforms )
•support for human -outside -the-loop, human -on-the-loop, and/or human -in-the-loop (fixed or
adaptive or as needed)
•ease -of-use / ease of understanding to justify any risks associated with a proposed solution
•user and platform pre -requisites  for development (accessibility)  to highlight special costs that
might be incurred
•traceable responsibility  / liability  (for decisions and actions)
•open -source available to anyone, or proprietary where the government could acquire
technology to obtain a competitive advantage
In addition,  each item above should list an  associated cost in schedule  and money . 


Summa ry: 
It is stro ngly suggested that all requirements for Artificial Intelligence in solicitations should avoid 
dictating  what AI approach must  be used.  Dictating what approach mu st be used prohibits  the US from 
learning about new approaches to AI that could offer higher levels of service at greatly reduce d costs.  
Requirements should be expressed in terms of required capabilities .  All responses should list ALL 
dependencies (direct and indirect).   All potential risks associated with a solution should be listed 
(including how any risks might be addressed : such as cost and schedule) .  
When new a pproaches to AI are developed, there should be someone within the government that is 
responsible for learning  about those new approaches / methodologies / technologies so that they 
become aware of the potential benefits that can be provided , and/ or the potential threats that new 
approaches might present if deployed by an adversary.  Presently within the government, there appears 
to be  resistance to approaches that the reviewers are  unfamiliar with (cognitive dissonance).  
Refer ence s: 
"Battlespace  Automation" describes a fully automated battlespace hierarchy: 
https://www.compsim.com/news/News%20Release%20 -%20Battlespace%20Automation.html  
What can one do with KEEL Technology:  
https://www.compsim.com/papers/What%20can%20one%20do%20with%20KEEL%20Technology.pdf  
Question s AI Must be able to answer:  
https://www.compsim.com/publicpapers/Questions%20ai%20must%20be%20able%20to%20answer.pdf  


- Extensions should be structured in a way that ensures backward com patibility, preventing interoperability issues across different AI
platform s.
- A governance m echanism  should be in place to encourage industry-wide adoption of com m on extensions, ensuring best practices while
allowing innovation.
Benefits of an Extensible JSON-Based AI Messaging Standard:
- Interoperability – Ensures AI services, platform s, and regulatory bodies can com m unicate effectively.
- Transparency & Trust – Facilitates auditing and oversight of AI decision-m aking processes.
- Efficiency & Scalability – Reduces developm ent and com pliance costs by providing a universal m essaging fram ework.
- Security & Privacy – Supports encrypted and structured AI data transm ission in com pliance with regulations.
- Custom ization & Innovation – Provides a structured but flexible fram ework that allows organizations to tailor AI m essaging to their
specific needs.
Call to Action:
We urge policym akers to prioritize the developm ent of this standard, bringing together AI stakeholders, industry leaders, and governm ent
agencies to ensure AI system s operate in a structured, secure, and transparent m anner while m aintaining the flexibility to accom m odate
evolving AI applications.
We appreciate your consideration and look forward to contributing to this initiative.


