PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-z3ho-xwt2
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5522
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Luke Herr 
 Email: 
General Comment
I've been a writer and creator since I was a child. Now in m y m id-30s I continue to work and create and I'd love to get to m ake a living
off of m y own work and ideas. But the legalization of AI using whatever it wants as trainable m aterial m akes it harder. It m eans com panies
can steal chances from  m e and thousands of other people while using our work - and never offering us com pensation for what they've
taken. It benefits those who don't work, who choose not to, who prefer to devalue the talent we develop through tim e and effort and in
the end it benefits people burning through billions of dollars - m oney that m ost of the people actually trying to create would be able to live
on. AI is wasteful, an endless bucket, being prom oted by charlatans, liars, and people saying it is im possible to stop - as long as they don't
need to pay people for training m aterial. The legalization of AI says they can do whatever they want because the people who m ake art
they care for, that they want to m ake a living at, don't m atter. It says that allowing the loss of jobs for the low quality work that AI
produces is acceptable. That this heartless and soulless work, that wastes water and energy is a fine use of tim e. The people this benefits
are the people who want to cut corners, to not do research, to not put in effort, to devalue the skills m ade to m ake som ething worthwhile.
Opening up anything they can find for training m aterial is at least a violation on thousands of copyrights, if not the core trust that this is a
country where the execution of ideas has value.


