PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-osi3-m pkp
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1698
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  WalletHub
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Request for Info on AI


March 14, 2025 
From: 
Odysseas Papadimitriou  
Founder & CEO, WalletHub 
Re: National Science Foundation Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
WalletHub  is a personal-finance company that strives to help Americans save money and make 
better financial decisions. Like many other independent publishers, our business has been 
devastated by the monopolistic tactics of Google in recent years, and the damage has only 
intensified lately as the company uses publishers' content to answer user questions without 
paying them in either monetary terms or traffic back to the publisher. If Google was not a 
monopoly, publishers would just block any search engines that stole their content without 
appropriate compensation. In fact, there is plenty of evidence  to suggest that Google is 
intentionally deteriorating search results to boost advertising revenue.  
Along with other small publishers and content creators, we advise the administration to reject 
the requests by Google and OpenAI to train their models on copyrighted materials without 
compensating the creator. Giving in to this power grab would kill a generation of small 
businesses, put thousands of Americans out of work, and prevent new creative enterprises from 
taking root. In the long run, this would result in an internet filled with average, machine-written 
content that no one can trust and that gradually devolves like an incestuous family tree. Even 
more concerning, a few large companies would control what content we consume and what 
biases this content has. 
Now that intellectual property theft at scale is more possible than any time in our history , it is 
essential that we protect the people that create it: the innovators, the thinkers, the outspoken. 
As a result, we are advocating for an approach to AI that is fair to everyone, including 
independent content creators and publishers. We must be compensated for our work, and we 
cannot allow anticompetitive and illegal practices from big tech companies to censor more 
Americans or force more small businesses to close their doors.  
Main street simply cannot afford to be strangled by their own data, and the country cannot afford 
to let these tech companies silence inquiries into their activities. The common denominator 


between these big tech firms is that they want to use everyone’s intellectual property to profit in 
whatever way they see fit without being accountable and having permission. 
The bottom line is that we need to continue protecting intellectual property because that is the 
only way to ensure people have an incentive to create it. Our nation has excelled at attracting 
the most creative minds in the world because it is a country where intellectual property is 
respected and properly rewarded. If we fall for the fear mongering from big tech that argues 
applying fair use protection to AI “is a matter of national security,” it will actually hurt the 
country’s security long term because the world’s brightest minds will be incentivized to go 
elsewhere. 
In addition, we must remove the threat of companies holding web traffic or visibility hostage until 
they get access to a creator’s data. Compensation for intellectual property can only be monetary 
and cannot be tied to traffic or other payment mechanisms that big tech companies can use to 
force creators to provide consent under the threat of reduced visibility. 
Thank you for your consideration. Best,  
Odysseas Papadimitriou 
“This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.” 


