PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2nm s-7stn
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8752
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
A.I. developm ents need to be closely m onitored and regulated because they are being developed without regard to existing laws of
copyright and intellectual property in the interest of creating short term  speculative value gains in tech stocks, despite the trem endous
environm ental cost, and to be used as a wedge by businesses against labor forces; or, m ore accurately, by investors in businesses against
both the workers and the people that m anage and direct the workers. The actual result of what generative A.I. com panies and their
boosters are billing the technology as capable of doing will be to further reduce the quality of art and creative work, as well as further
perpetuate the deintellecutalization of the Am erican people, specifically through reducing critical function and other cognitive abilities
through extended use - see the Microsoft-Carnegie Mellon paper quoted in this (https://www.404m edia.co/m icrosoft-study-finds-ai-
m akes-hum an-cognition-atrophied-and-unprepared-3/) news article. 
In hand with this pursuit of endless perpetual renewable capital gains, the technology creates shortcuts to im itate the generation of art,
videos, gam es, but is in fact just a m irage that costs tons of gigawats of electricity (https://www.nature.com /articles/d41586-025-00616-
z), inevitably stressing our power grid without any dividends for the tax payers. One of the core problem s with these tools not being
capable of what they claim  to do - because they lack the hum an touch necessary to create novel art, for instance - is that the Em peror's
New Clothes of it all requires such self-deception that com panies are going to destroy them selves in order to be able to claim  to
shareholders that they are engaging with new technology, even when they are just using tools/creating products they already had. They are
also forcing A.I. assistants and searches into all m anner of technology where consum ers don't want or need them , m aking their existing
tools and products harder to use rather than easier. All of this at a tim e when the econom ic conditions m ake it harder for consum ers to
m eaningfully engage the m arket.
But they are also, also, intending to devalue creative labor and creative products by developing a sim ulacra or approxim ation of genuine
art for long enough to suppress the workers in the industries to the extent that they can kill industries and creative com m unities that they
cannot replace. This is not m erely a m atter of people taking a paycut; it will be a m atter of people doing *som ething else*; that is to say
that we are going to lose a generation, m aybe generations, of great Am erican art from  Am erican artists about Am erican experiences in the
interest of chasing investm ent dollars. Aside from  the terrible effect this will have on Am erican prestige and Am erican culture, it is also
going to be sym ptom atic of the other, related idea... A.I. is being billed as rem oving labor from  the process of generating wealth.
However, you still need custom ers. If no one has a job because there job has been autom ated by a m achine that costs m ore to do it, who
is going to buy the products? Any products; not just tech products and art products, but basic goods and services?
Moreover, this is a huge BUBBLE. Probably worse than the dotcom  bubble, probably like the real estate bubble. So m any tech
com panies are over-leveraged into a business pursuit with poor basic m arket fundam entals. Ed Zitron has been writing about this for
m onths (https://www.wheresyoured.at/saaspocalypse-now/). Lots of m ajor Am erican firm s in the tech sector are vulnerable to volitility in
the value of their com panies because they are investing in som ething without a clear profit outlay. The U.S. federal governm ent tying itself
to these pursuits in the interest of m ilitary or surveillance applications m ay buoy a few of these com panies, but it m ay also just drag the
federal deficit into a tailspin anchored by a collapsing econom y.
Attachments
Com m ent on A.I. Request for Inform ation - 3_15_25


A.I. developments need to be closely monitored and regulated because they are being developed
without regard to existing laws of copyright and intellectual property in the interest of creating short
term speculative value gains in tech stocks, despite the tremendous environmental cost, and to be used
as a wedge by businesses against labor forces; or, more accurately, by investors in businesses against
both the workers and the people that manage and direct the workers. The actual result of what
generative A.I. companies and their boosters are billing the technology as capable of doing will be to
further reduce the quality of art and creative work, as well as further perpetuate the deintellecutalization
of the American people, specifically through reducing critical function and other cognitive abilities
through extended use - see the Microsoft-Carnegie Mellon paper quoted in this
(https://www.404media.co/microsoft-study-finds-ai-makes-human-cognition-atrophied-and-
unprepared-3/) news article.
In hand with this pursuit of endless perpetual renewable capital gains, the technology creates shortcuts 
to imitate the generation of art, videos, games, but is in fact just a mirage that costs tons of gigawats of 
electricity (https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-025-00616-z), inevitably stressing our power grid 
without any dividends for the tax payers. One of the core problems with these tools not being capable 
of what they claim to do - because they lack the human touch necessary to create novel art, for instance 
- is that the Emperor's New Clothes of it all requires such self-deception that companies are going to
destroy themselves in order to be able to claim to shareholders that they are engaging with new
technology, even when they are just using tools/creating products they already had. They are also
forcing A.I. assistants and searches into all manner of technology where consumers don't want or need
them, making their existing tools and products harder to use rather than easier. All of this at a time
when the economic conditions make it harder for consumers to meaningfully engage the market.
But they are also, also, intending to devalue creative labor and creative products by developing a 
simulacra or approximation of genuine art for long enough to suppress the workers in the industries to 
the extent that they can kill industries and creative communities that they cannot replace. This is not 
merely a matter of people taking a paycut; it will be a matter of people doing *something else*; that is 
to say that we are going to lose a generation, maybe generations, of great American art from American 
artists about American experiences in the interest of chasing investment dollars. Aside from the terrible 
effect this will have on American prestige and American culture, it is also going to be symptomatic of 
the other, related idea... A.I. is being billed as removing labor from the process of generating wealth. 
However, you still need customers. If no one has a job because there job has been automated by a 
machine that costs more to do it, who is going to buy the products? Any products; not just tech products 
and art products, but basic goods and services?
Moreover, this is a huge BUBBLE. Probably worse than the dotcom bubble, probably like the real 
estate bubble. So many tech companies are over-leveraged into a business pursuit with poor basic 
market fundamentals. Ed Zitron has been writing about this for months 
(https://www.wheresyoured.at/saaspocalypse-now/). Lots of major American firms in the tech sector 
are vulnerable to volitility in the value of their companies because they are investing in something 
without a clear profit outlay. The U.S. federal government tying itself to these pursuits in the interest of 
military or surveillance applications may buoy a few of these companies, but it may also just drag the 
federal deficit into a tailspin anchored by a collapsing economy.


