PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zkhr-5ccd
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6212
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Duncan Eagleson
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Duncan Eagleson_AI_Com m ent


Duncan Eagleson 
Re: National Science Foundation’ s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligenc e (AI) Action Plan 
I am an everyday American who owns a small illustration & design studio hich serves clients i n the 
publishi ng industry. I have worked har d for years to devel op the skills and knowledge t o build m y 
busines s and have been lucky enough t o make a decent living and support my famil y – until recently. 
The A I system s made by Big Tec h companies li ke OpenA I (Microsoft) and Googl e threat en to 
destroy t housands of Ameri can small businesse s like mi ne with their recent demand to create 
special carve outs i n copyright law. 
AI systems can only be produced by first training on wor k made by people. My unique work, and the 
work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators was taken and f ed into these AI 
systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest our work, reassembl e it, and t hen sell it 
back to our clients – directly competing wit h us and cutting us out of the ma rketplace. 
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and loopholes to make 
this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggesting that if 
a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted w ork, it is somehow suddenly “fair use”.   
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardles s of who owns it – should be 
theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to rewrit e the law in this 
way, it will stifle American innovation. 
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of Ameri can copyri ght law is to protect the 
incentive t o creat e and innovate .  
If we the American peopl e do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big 
Tech giants, what will be the incenti ve to create? If everyday A mericans create a new innovative piece of 
computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music onl y to ha ve it immediately stolen by 
Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibl y make a living doing 
these things? 
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday 
Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.  
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:  
•First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective consent ,
so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.  This must be an “opt-in”
system.  The “opt-out” approach suggested by some companies is ineffi cient and puts the onus on
creators to chase down every possible case of companies scraping their work.


•Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the
incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic value, so
the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech.
•Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, requiring
them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
I am not anti -technology or even anti-AI. I have long been what is called an “early adopter, ” and m any of 
my works have be en created digitally.  But we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of 
thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.  
I’ve heard i t asserted that AI is “essential  to national security. ”    While this is clearly a lie, I hope it does  
not become true.  Every LLM so far has proven to be rife with inaccuracies  , false positives, false 
negatives, and what the tech sector calls “hallucinations. ”  To base government actions in re national 
security on such unreliable systems would be disastrous . 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.  
-Duncan Eagleson


