PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2af8-z1sp
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8142
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Jordan Now lin 
General Comment
In com paring the Biden adm inistration's executive order -- with its detailed explanations of both what problem s specifically it is addressing
and what goals it lays out -- to the Trum p adm inistration's executive order m eant to replace it, it seem s im m ediately clear to m e that this
new order leaves m uch to be desired.
1. The policy is extrem ely broad. Am erican global dom inance in AI is the stated goal, and in the body of the order there is no weighing of
any ethical concerns that m ight arise on the way to achieving this goal. The Am erican dom inance is stated to be for three purposes which
should theoretically guide ethical decisions m ade, but no explanation is given for how they m ay be applied, and they are them selves
broadly-scoped vagueries.
a. Prom oting hum an flourishing is a noble goal, but there is no explanation of what that is m eant to look like nor how AI and specifically
Am erican global dom inance in AI will bring us closer to this goal. The body concerns itself greatly with rem oving restrictions on com panies
developing AI, but it is unclear how this will lead to hum an flourishing. This all gives the appearance of using lofty words that have no great
m eaning in context.
b. Econom ic com petitiveness is also undefined though perhaps som ewhat m ore straightforward in conceptualization. It seem s clear to m e
that "econom ic com petitiveness" and "hum an flourishing" can at tim es be at odds with one another. There is no guidance given in the order
as to how these should be weighed against each other. Instead individuals will have to weigh these as they see fit in the m om ent, providing
no accountability and likely leading to a lack of consistency in im plem entation. This has all the appearance of passing the buck on down
the line.
c. National security is also given no explanation neither in its relevance to AI developm ent nor why Am erica m ust dom inate globally in AI
in order to achieve this. The Biden adm inistration's executive order laid out in great detail potential threats to national security and how the
adm inistration's policy intended to protect against such threats. Did no one advise President Trum p before this policy was drafted? Was
no one consulted on the m atter to determ ine how the policy could be used to protect national security? I cannot even speculate because
there is nothing in this order to even define the term .
2. The im plem entation is entirely reactionary against the executive order of the Biden adm inistration. This, on its own, is neutral. Certain
individuals are tasked to find and revise or reverse policy actions set forth by the Biden adm inistration that are inconsistent with the new
policy. However, as laid out in point 1, the new policy is laid out so broadly and so vaugely that any current policy action could be
rationalized to be inconsistent and any new policy recom m edation could be rationalized to fit better. The lack of policy guidance in this
executive order authorizes individuals to act in nearly whatever way they please with no explicit oversight. With the Biden adm inistration's
executive order, actions carried out could be com pared to the excrutiating detail of the policy to determ ine com pliance. There is no such
option here.
In sum m ary, the Biden adm inistration's executive order was revoked by the Trum p adm inistration's order 14148 along with over 70 other
independent and unrelated Biden adm inistration orders, and no m atter how greatly the Trum p adm inistration m ay disagree with the
previous adm inistration's order, this new executive order is so large a step down as to be unconcionable. More care m ust be given to the
writing of policy so as to give actual direction and guidance. Given the lack of direction here, all interpretations of policy m ust necessarily
be determ ined by those enacting the order. Indeed it appears that enactors could very nearly justify any action they desired to take under
these term s. There is nothing that can justify going forward with such a poorly defined policy as this.




