PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2m pn-xp0x
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8440
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
The “training” of AI m odels on copyrighted m aterial is a clear and present danger to the national econom y, throwing countless current and
future craftspersons under the bus by devaluing their skilled labor, by design, in, in the hopes that entire industries will be replaced with
generic product, rem oving the capacity for those countless workers, and the countless others who rely on them  financially, to m ake a living
in the process. Without oversight and restrictions this is m erely a wrecking ball, breaking everything, replacing it with inferior copies, and
leaving m illions without the ability to even purchase those inferior products which replaced their own output. This technology entirely relies
on the painstaking work of others, proving that this pre-existing work has enorm ous financial value, and yet the com panies behind these
technologies believe that their desire to abduct this hard labor and ingenuity from  Am erica’s tradespeople - and give literally less than
nothing back, since they're actively endangering the livelihood of their victim s - is of greater value. That “value” is effectively a gift to these
thieves at the expense of the Am erican econom y and its workers. We are not at the m ercy of these com panies. They are m aking a
product that Am ericans consistently dem onstrate that they don't want. Their inability to sell an inferior product without denying
com pensation to the creators of superior products isn't Am erica's problem . The free m arket is speaking, and to deny that m arket is to
deny the concept of capitalism . Any business which relies entirely on theft to survive is not actually business: it is a crim e ring.
The people who claim  we cannot "fall behind" on this technology, which consistently produces substandard product, are the sam e sm all
num ber people who stand to gain financially from  the downfall of Am erica’s larger econom y. Their business m odel is to replace superior
products with inferior products that m ight becom e com petent later, but only if they take the work of people who get paid for the labor,
again without com pensation. They do this to deliver products that the Am erican people are actively rejecting as inferior. That the
technology will get “better” is irrelevant if “better” is defined as m ore effective in their pursuit of not just dam aging, but ending the
livelihood of the Am erican workers.


