PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1ctp-v3c2
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7345
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Large Language Models and other Generative AI technologies as they are currently being developed and m arketed are a dangerous
infringem ent on the rights of writers, visual artists, film m akers, actors, and m usicians. 
Allowing for such m odels to be trained on illegally obtained copyrighted work denies the very essence of copyright protections enshrined
in law. 
Allowing m ajor corporations to m ake AI m odels of existing or deceased persons, sets a dangerous precedent for creative work of those
persons. How will a consum er, or regulator know if an appearance in a film  is a hum an actor, or an AI-generated replica? Is the artist who
is duplicated allowed recourse? 
The potential for m isuse in other areas of everyday life is equally terrifying. Im agine a world where because AI replication is of a high
fidelity identity cannot be established for som eone at the other end of a phone or video call, and the potential for all m anner of fraud or
security risks. Deepfakes and non-consensual sexual m aterial are areas where we already see ram pant abuse of the powers of existing AI
tools. 
We should not be plunging headlong into em bracing these technologies when our social structures struggle to adapt. 
Already, too m any people try to rely on inform ation "generated" by large language m odels; those tools are not search engines, cannot
understand context, and have no concept of what is real or what is not. 
A m achine m ust never be in the position of m aking a choice that can devastate hum an lives, especially since they cannot be trusted to be
accurate to reality. 
AI can do am azing things, and is good at filtering im ages or testing possible protein folding sequences, or m apping the sky or planet. But it
is not yet and m ay never be in a position to have hum an-like cognition and m ay never be able to have the critical hum an quality of
em pathy. 
I urge the NSF to weigh these factors in designing the regulations for AI tools and technology, and m ove to restrict the m any potential
unethical, dangerous, and harm ful ways they are already being used in the search for profits at the expense of hum an beings. 


