PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-wbc4-7kis
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3839
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Joseph Eichstaedt  
General Comment
While it is certain that tech com panies are, in this day and age, beholden only to their shareholders, it is the purpose of the Am erican
governm ent to be beholden to its people. If OpenAI, and other AI developm ent com panies, are allowed to ransack the copy-written
m aterials of the Am erican people- its books, plays, art, and scientific research, it opens the doors for these corporations to see the
patented and copy-written m aterials of its com petitors, and other com panies, as free gam e. It is an open secret that the private data of
corporations that have been susceptible to hacks and leaks is available on the internet, and the data-scrapers that collect data for Large
Language Models do so wantonly and without curation. This m eans that, as we speak, OpenAI and other AI com panies m ay have within
their proprietary m odels data that is strictly the property of other corporations. OpenAI claim s its m odels are a black box and that it is
im possible to determ ine what data exists within them . This has been disproved m any tim es by technological journalists and data scientists
fam iliar with the technology. What's m ore, with OpenAI as the m ost flagrant exam ple, this hoarding of resources, funds, and data, has
been proven by the Chinese DeepSeek to be wildly inefficient. Pursuing legal exceptions for bloated Am erican AI developers is a blatant
m oney-grab by developer-executives who know that without the Am erican Governm ent holding their hand, they would fall down.
It would be better policy to encourage com petition within the AI m arket, and to leave the m atter of copyright to individual casework.
Everyone with a stake in the Am erican econom y, whether it be through copy-written or patented m aterials, should have the option to opt
out of having their m aterial included in AI developm ent. This opt-out should be sim ple and straightforward, and carry serious
consequences if it is ignored. The autonom y of an Am erican's Ideas m ust be as sacrosanct as the autonom y of an Am erican's body and
soul. 


