PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zpkk-54m f
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6030
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
The entire concept for this "Plan" is com pletely ludicrous and tries to fram e actions clearly detrim ental to the public and specific fields a
whole in som e kind of flowery light like it's a good thing. No, it is not a good thing to rem ove all regulation on what AI can do, steal from ,
com pile, or perform  in any capacity unless it actively benefits som ething practical like its use in m edicine. Which it m ost certainly will not
be used for if this plan goes through. It will just be used by cheapskates and fat cats not wanting to pay people for actually doing hum an
work so they can save a few m ore dollars for their giant hoard of wealth. There's no point in rem oving restrictions because the technology
is already being abused m ore than its being helpful, and rem oving the restrictions will just actively m ake things worse. It m akes things
worse for the environm ent because the technology is already a m assive waste of energy. It m akes things worse for the job m arket because
CEOs and other executive types will use it as an excuse to not have real people on their payroll. It m akes things worse for artists in any
fields because AI just steals and com piles the work of others into freak piles of garbage with no actual purpose or reasoning behind it.
You can try dressing it up as m uch as you want, but at the end of the day, the uses of AI have already been a detrim ent to society, so
rem oving any restrictions on it so the "private sector" can churn out m ore energy guzzling garbage is an awful idea that won't help anyone.
Which is on track for this current adm inistration of self-absorbed, delusional, idiotic m onsters in hum an skin, and I'm  sure this entire RFI
will be disregarded on top of being rigged to hell and back.


