PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-p2fg-5m kq
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2700
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Project Managem ent Institute (PMI)
General Comment
The Project Managem ent Institute (PMI) hereby subm its the following com m ents to the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP)
regarding Am erican leadership in artificial intelligence.
Attachments
AI Executive Order (FINAL)


   
 
 Michael Kratsios  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  
National Science Foundation  
1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW  
Washington, DC 2050 0 
 
Re: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action 
Plan  
 
The Project Management Institute (PMI) hereby submits the following comments to the 
Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) regarding American leadership in 
artificial intelligence through private sector initiatives.  
 
Background  
 
PMI, found ed in the United States  in 1969  and proudly headquartered in Newtown 
Square, Pennsylvania, is the world's leading organization for project management, with 
over 7 42,000 members . PMI’s Cognitive Project Management for AI (CPMAI) 
methodology  and certificatio n, obtained through its acquisition of AI thought le aders 
Cognilytica,  is a vendor -neutral, data -centric, AI -specific, iterative methodology for 
running and managing AI, M achine Learning (ML) , and cognitive technology projects. 
PMI is uniquely positioned to contribute to America's continued global dominance in AI 
through our frameworks, methodologies, and professional certifications.   
 
 
PMI’s Contributions to American AI Leadership  
 
Since 2017, PMI Cognilytica has established itself as an AI thought leader, championing 
best practices and trustworthy AI implementation in both the public and private 
sectors. Following the acquisition, PMI continues to uphold and expand this thought 
leadership.  
 
Seven Patterns of AI Framework  
 
While many applications fall generally under  the umbrella of “artificial intelligence,” 
these AI solutions can often look different in practice. To address these differences, PMI 
Cognilytica identified that AI projects fit within seven main “patterns” of AI. Each 
pattern comes with its own data requ irements, risks, and considerations. By mapping an 
AI project to one or more of these seven patterns, implementers  can accelerate  AI 
technology decisions, more accurately gauge required data, and better scope the 
project to address specific AI project need s and risks . 
 
This "Seven Patterns of AI" framework  identifies the fundamental patterns of AI 
applications  across all AI applications regardless of industry or use case. These patterns 
include:  


   
 
 1. Hyperpersonalization: Using machine learning to develop unique profiles of 
individuals that learn and adapt over time, treating each person as an individual 
rather than as part of a broad category.  
2. Conversational/Human Interaction: Enabling machines to communicate with 
humans through  various interfaces  in the language of humans . 
3. Pattern & Anomaly Detection: Identifying patterns in data and determining 
whether new data fits existing patterns or represents anomalies.  
4. Predictive Analytics & Decision Support: Using historical data to help humans 
make predictions about future events and support decision -making processes.  
5. Recognition: I dentify and understand things within otherwise unstructured 
content such as objects,  video, audio, or text.  
6. Autonomous Systems: Creating systems that can operate independently with 
minimal human intervention.  
7. Goal -Driven Systems: AI systems that are designed to achieve specific goals by 
optimizing their actions and find the optimal solution to a problem.  
 
In 2022, PMI’s American -made “Seven Patterns of AI” were adopted by the 
Organization for Economic Co -operation and Development (OECD ), an international 
organization that works with over 100 countries to develop evidence -based policies,  as 
a core component to their definition of AI.  1 
 
Trustworthy AI Framework  
 
PMI's Trustworthy AI Framework provides an approach to reliable and trustworthy AI that 
is aligned with  core  American values. The framework addresses five key layers:  
 
1. Ethical AI: Ensuring AI systems participate  in society positively, provide human 
benefit, avoid harm, and maintain human control and agency.  
2. Responsible AI: Addressing potential misuse or abuse of AI, including aspects of 
AI safety, privacy, trust, and human accountability.  
3. Transparent AI: Increasing trust of AI systems by providing visibility into system 
behavior, data configuration, user consent, bias mitigation , and disclosure and 
consent. 
4. Governed AI: Implementing processes, controls, and safeguards on AI systems, 
including audit ability , monitoring, and complying with regulations as well as 
provide ways to contest or appeal AI decisions for human review . 
5. Explainable AI: Reducing the "black box" nature of AI systems by providing 
means to understand how machines arrive at conclusions  and to understand the 
root cause of any failures . 
 
This framework enables organizations to build AI systems that concurrently  deliver 
business value that is aligned with American values  using a flexible, adaptable 
approach that imposes the least burden on AI application developers . 
 
1 OECD (2022), “OECD Framework for the Classification of AI systems”, OECD Digital Economy Papers, No. 
323, OECD Publishing, Paris, https://doi.org/10.1787/cb6d9eca -en. 


   
 
  
CPMAI  Methodology  and Professional Certification  
 
The CPMAI methodology  provides a structured approach to running and managing AI 
projects. This vendor -neutral, data -centric, AI -specific, iterative methodology has 
become the industry standard for successful AI implementation . 2 By combining best 
practices from project management with the specific requirements of AI projects, 
CPMAI addresses the unique challenges of AI development and deployment.  
 
CPMAI was designed to close AI implementation gaps and reduce the high rate of AI 
project failures. The CPMAI methodology extends familiar, proven approaches  such as 
agile and data -focused framework s with AI -specific best practices. Through its six-phase  
approach for AI projects, the CPMAI process focuses on ensuring AI projects have 
alignment with business objectives and ROI, proper data preparation and governance, 
robust model evaluation and operationalization, a focus on real -world AI 
implementation and not proof -of-concept experimentation, and Iterative development 
to adapt to changing data and needs.  
 
Promoting American Values Through Private Sector Leadership  
 
PMI firmly believe s that private sector leadership, rather than excessive government 
regulation, is the most effective way to ensure America's continued preeminence in AI. 
Our frameworks and methodologies embody core American values , like : 
 
• Innovation and Entrepreneurship:  Our approaches empower organizations to 
innovate, creating new opportunities for growth and competitiveness.  
• American  Leadership:  We promote American values  in AI development, ensuring 
that American AI systems reflect our nation's values . 
• Market -Driven Solutions: Our frameworks are developed based on real -world 
needs and are continuously refined by the  market, ensuring their relevance and 
effectiveness.  
• Professional Excellence:  We elevate the profession of project management and 
AI development through rigorous standards, professional certifications, and 
lifelong learning.  
 
Recommendations:  
 
• Encourage Adoption of Private Sector, I ndustry -Led Frameworks:  Promote the  
voluntary  adoption of frameworks like the Seven Patterns of AI, Trustworthy AI, 
and CPMAI methodology, including training and professional certification s as 
American -led standards for AI . 
• Support Professional Development : Invest in programs that build America's AI 
workforce through professional certifications  that promote career readiness in AI.  
 
2 PMI.org/AI   


   
 
 • Promote American AI  Standards  Globally:  Support efforts to establish American -
led private sector standards as the global preeminent methodologies  for AI . 
 
Conclusion  
 
PMI’s work is supporting America's continued preeminence  in artificial intelligence 
through our voluntary  frameworks, methodologies, and professional certifications. By 
promoting private sector -led initiatives that embody American values of innovation  and 
excellence, the US federal government can be assured  that the United States remains 
at the forefront of AI . PMI  appreciate s the opportunity to provide these comments and 
would welcome further discussion on how PMI contribute s to American leadership in AI.  
Please feel free to reach out to Manthan Bhatt at  
 
 
Sincerely , 
 
 
Karla Eidem, PMP, PMI -PMOCP  
Regional Managing Director, North America  
Project Management Institute  


