PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-wn6e-4elx
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3972
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
"Unnecessarily burdensom e requirem ents" is incredibly alarm ing term inology to use here. These m odels exist on the backs of creators:
authors, photographers, artists, m usicians, songwriters, playwrights. In m ost contexts, we com pensate these people for their work. We
m ake som e exceptions for criticism , for education, or for significantly transform ative work. In m y opinion, none of this applies to training
generative AI.
I fail to understand the point of allowing these com panies to continue to scrape data with im punity. The only point I can see is greed. The
greed of taking som ething that is not theirs and feeding it into an algorithm  so it can m ake counterfeit copies of what they've stolen for
profit. I understand that generative AI seem s flashy and new and exciting. I find it rather soulless. I find it hard to care at all about books
no one cared to write, or about paintings no one bothered to paint.
I do not discount all AI innovation, but I think it could be better served in a position that doesn't drive creatives out of their respective
fields chasing the cheapest alternative. If they want to scrape everything off the internet without paying for it, then they should not be able
to profit with what com es out of it. Or if they do, then they m ust com pensate all those who were forced unwittingly into their data set.
If it's not clear, I oppose this. These regulations are necessary. If AI is not capable of continuing to grow or advance without m ass
scraping of copyrighted content, then it is a flaw in their system , not the fault of those who have been stolen from .


