PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-0car-m y8s
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6517
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
The current generation of privately-owned technology referred to as "AI" is infinitely m ore harm ful than beneficial to the United States due
to the lack of intelligent regulation and protection from  foreign influence. Any policy put in place should:
1. Prohibit ingestion of unauthorized copyrighted m aterials into AI datasets. It has been proven both in studies and personal use that the
current version of "Gen AI" can and will directly plagiarize copyrighted works. By design, it is regurgitating m aterial entered into it, and
therefore cannot legally operate within the US copyright system  without first obtaining authorization from  copyright holders for the
reproduction of their work.
2. Prohibit "hallucinated" output that is libelous, dangerous, or used in place of a trained hum an professional where doing so m ay lead to
harm  or loss of life. Exam ples of such dangers include news reports of "AI" publicly accusing investigative journalists of com m itting the
crim es they investigated, "AI" instructing users to add glue to pizza, "AI" being used to deny insurance claim s in place of a doctor, or "AI"
salespeople offering perspective buyers free vehicles against the wishes of the dealerships.
3. Prohibit environm ental and personal property dam age or em inent dom ain for the creation, powering, or m aintenance of "AI" data
centers that will be used exclusively for private profit.
4. Prohibit use of "AI" to create deep fake videos or im ages that are harm ful or crim inal, including false videos of politicians and perverted
videos of living adults and children.
5. Ensure all US-authored "AI" is protected from  and verified to be clear of m anipulation from  hostile foreign governm ents and m alicious
actors, both at the code and data set levels.
Without these things, the United States has already "lost" the AI battle, as the output of our current m odels is so faulty and poisoned as to
be useless for both private and governm ent use. It cannot reason, it slows productivity, it corrupts existing inform ation, it sews public
distrust, it em powers crim inals, and it burns resources. In other words: it is snake oil.
Thank you.


