PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-x1sh-xj0v
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4173
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Emma Hubner 
General Comment
Good evening.
I’m  a freelance visual artist, art teacher, and a concerned Am erican citizen. The health of our country, our environm ent, and taking care of
sm all businesses are all im portant to m e. I have illustrated a children’s book, created com m issions, and use social m edia to prom ote m y
business. I have also taught elem entary, m iddle school, and high school art as well as classes at a local art m useum  for all ages. As an
artist, teacher, sm all business owner, environm entalist, and Am erican, I am  deeply troubled by the unregulated developm ent and
deploym ent of AI. The AI-art generators are being trained by art created by hum ans and this is a concern of m ine. There are so m any
copyright infringem ents of said training and im age generation. My livelihood will be affected. Yes, I am  a teacher but as a single wom an
living in the city I depend on a second incom e because teachers aren’t valued enough due to it being a predom inantly wom en field of
study. Historically and financially this is an undisputed truth. The children I teach benefit from  reading the books I illustrate and are m ore
inspired by works as an artist. I want to encourage them  to chase their hopes and dream s as artists, but the unregulated use of AI is
crushing the hopes and dream s of Am erican children. We m ust protect our children’s right to create art without them  having to fear their
future jobs will be taken away by a soulless m achine. I urge you to consider the children of our country whose dream s will be snatched
away by AI, which is designed to steal art, even the art of children. The current governm ent is hastily attem pting to enhance Am erica's AI
dom inance and to com pete with other nations in the developm ent of AI and therefore is neglecting the flourishing and com petitiveness of
hum an artists. Also it is potentially ignoring long-standing legal protections afforded to the creations of said hum an artists. As som eone
who loves the beautiful natural landscapes of the United States of Am erica, I am  deeply saddened by the environm ental harm  AI creates
due to its excessive use of power and water. Please also consider how alarm ing the wildfires have been in North Am erica recently and
how they will only get even worse with AI’s wasteful use of water. With unregulated and unrestricted developm ent of AI this will surely
affect the health of Am erican children. I m yself wish to have children of m y own som eday, but I want them  to be in a country that actually
cares about their health, their environm ent, their culture, and their rights. AI has already dam aged our planet so m uch and I feel I m ust
stress that this could m ake such a worse im pact on our future, our children’s future, and our children’s children's future. I im plore you to
be on the right side of history and consider the lives of Am erican artists, art lovers, sm all business owners, hobbyists, and anyone who
respects and wants to preserve Am erican culture through art creation. We need to be the kind of role m odels that will m ake our
descendents proud and stand up for what’s right, not the kind that endorses stealing and dam aging our beautiful country. 
Regards,
A concerned Am erican citizen and teacher


