PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-f2zw-l2h4
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1968
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
As a sm all business owner, I believe there are ways to im plem ent AI that can be beneficial, by stream lining autom ated tasks that are dull
and repetitive such as calculations.
AI, however, used for generative AI purposes not only is not profitable, it hurts a sm all business like m ine by stealing from  m e.
I believe the following needs to be considered:
1) That copyright law is built into the process and respected. We already have precedent; When Vanilla Ice sam pled a large portion of
Under Pressure, it wasn't rem ixing. It was deem ed theft and thusly com pensated. Napster alm ost killed the m usic industry. The courts
correctly ruled that it was stealing m usic. The m usic industry did not collapse from  enforcem ent of these laws. A sim ilar licensing system ,
that is fully opt-in could easily be im plem ented and should be. Without copyright, without the protections of the law that allow us to create
and keep what we've created, what incentive is there to create? And without content, there is no generative AI.
2) The power and m ight of the United States m ust be used to protect our intellectual property rights worldwide. Big tech com panies or
foreign governm ents should not have the ability to to ingest our content, censor output, control the narrative, or profit from  our work. Any
com pany or country shown to engage in anything other than transparent, free, and com pensated use of content should be subject to the
harshest penalties. It is theft from  U.S. citizens and rights-holders. The fact that som e of the generated AI content is alm ost one-to-one
replicas of the original content betrays their intent to take from  sm all creatives and profit from  it as a bigger com pany. It's unacceptable.
3) The energy consum ption of these processes are far m ore devastating environm entally and wasteful than the sum  of their output, which
again, generative AI's output is theft from  individual rights holders--sm all business owners and intellectual property that m akes the United
States unique and com petitive. If the cost to run a light bulb is that it explodes and has to be replaced every 2 m inutes, it's neither effective
nor budget-friendly.
4) The interference of inform ation is causing us to fall behind in the world as a leader in science and research. By allowing generative
processes to take over certain sectors of inform ation, we are losing the accuracy that allows us to continue to develop as a world leader.
Pictures of anim als are being replaced with inaccurate AI replicas so realistic in appearance that it causes confusion. Our proud history
being erased and rewritten. Scientific journals publishing diagram s of things that don't exist. It cannot continue.
This is a powerful new technology. Now is the right tim e to m ake the right choices to keep Am erica a leader in AI developm ent and
sustain content creation in a long-term  m anner. Without content, AI stagnates and fails. It just regurgitates what it's given. Plus, it's just the
right thing to do.


