PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-l23q-5ykd
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2373
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Tim Susm an  
Email: 
General Comment
In the developm ent of large language m odels (LLMs) that generate text in response to a prom pt, and the developm ent of generative
technologies that create im ages and other creative output in response to a prom pt, all generally lum ped under the category of "AI," the
developers have adm itted that they cannot create useful products without training them  on copyrighted works that they have not been
given perm ission to use. Elim inating the requirem ent to com pensate the copyright owner for a for-profit use of their work underm ines the
entire US copyright system . It is not an "unnecessarily burdensom e requirem ent" to require that a copyright holder be com pensated when
som eone else uses their work for profit. That is what copyright m eans. 
What's m ore, the product these com panies are m aking using copyrighted work is in direct com petition with the creators of the work
they're stealing. The com panies are creating a product that com petes in the sam e space as the copyright holders, who will see their
revenue suffer as a result. We have already seen the harm  that AI-generated work can do in spaces such as Am azon's self-publishing,
m agazines that have been forced to shut down subm issions because of AI-generated entries flooding their portals, and even Facebook's
feed, crowded with AI-generated text that destroys the point of a social m edia feed.
An initiative such as this one prioritizes corporations--and the CEOs, as the people who profit the m ost--over the well-being of the
Am erican people. It would be a huge m istake to m ove forward with it.


