PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2j1e-1rke
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8646
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Crystal Carpenter
Em ail:  
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
ccarp_aiactcom m ent


March 15, 2025
From:
Crystal Carpenter
Illustrator/Sculptor
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the 
Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am an American who owns a small illustration and sculpting business. 
Like all of my artist colleagues, hard work, time, and money was invested 
into my knowledge and skills, so that I can create artwork for my audience 
to enjoy and make sure that my business thrives. These skills took years to 
develop, but recently this investment has come under threat.
Big tech companies such as OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to 
destroy small businesses such as mine, by ignoring copyright laws, and 
now by demanding to create special carve-outs in copyright law.
The generative AI systems which we currently see were trained on the hard 
work of artists such as myself, but without our consent, and without proper 
compensation. This is why were are seeing a number of lawsuits against 
these companies by creatives, I am not alone in reasoning that these 
companies are a threat to our small businesses due to the way they are 
currently training their generative AI systems. Already, we are seeing how 
this can directly harm artists, by stealing, reassembling, and selling it back 
to our clients, and by cutting us out of the marketplace. It is not fair use 
when it competes with the original creator.
Now these big tech companies are asking for this administration to create 
exceptions, giving them permission to continue this unfair practice, allowing 
them to steal what they do not own. While copyright law is meant to protect 
the incentive to create, these big tech companies are aiming to erode this 
incentive for the sake of profit for themselves. This of course harms small 
businesses such as mine.


This will take away the incentive to create and innovate. Why should any 
creator put their work into the world if that work is immediately taken by a massive company without compensation? However, creators are not the only casualty of this unfair practice. This could inadvertently harm the aim to be at the forefront of innovation in AI. Generative AI is only as good as the material it was trained on, and they require new material in order to function. If no one is willing to create due to the unfair, one sided handout to large companies, innovation stops.
If one truly cares about small American businesses, and innovation in AI, 
then protect American creators. Help us advocate for the ethical development of AI. The first step: Do not create copyright exemptions which allow big tech companies to exploit and steal from creators such as myself. We must instead implement a standard of consent, compensation, and transparency.
The action plan should include consent from artists and creatives, giving 
the power back to Americans who have worked hard to produce these creative works. It should be in our hands to decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
This plan should also encourage a licensing marketplace, so that the 
incentives to create are preserved. Our creative work has economic value, which even the big tech companies understand that they depend on, and the people who invested the effort in that work should be able to rightfully profit off their own work. This also puts control back into the hands of the hard working Americans who created the data.
Finally, we should expect transparency from big tech companies, requiring 
them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and AI generated content should be labeled so that the consumers have full knowledge of what they are viewing.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment. I hope that you put American 
small business owners first, by protecting our creative rights, and not allowing big tech to run unchecked.


