PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3sbx-kr11
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9421
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Hello. I would like the bill to be reconsidered and reevaluated due to the safety of US citizens. While the evolution of AI is always seen as
a benefit for the current day for science, m edicines, and architecture, I, as a US citizen who cares for a lot of older folks and children, am
worried over the use of unm oderated AI in the online space. I've seen people m ake videos using AI that alm ost replicate people in vivid
detail, and I worry of what is to com e if we continue on the path that AI just uses anything and everything on the internet without any
regulations or restrictions. The idea that m edia online on any website, like Facebook or X, being used to train an AI without any
discrim ination could replicate into things that could even becom e crim inal content and I do not feel safe with this pursuit without stable
laws in place to stop it.
That beings m e to m y point to m ention that the actors on television, the anim ators for our children's cartoons, and all of our m edia are
already being cloned into AI works. It feels like it would devolve into an easy to breach security risk, and I don't want that to happen to
any and all of m y fellow Am ericans. Creative works such as our television program s and stream ing apps are our pleasure to view and
interact with and pay for, but it feels like a term ination to have unregulated AI scan and replicate the artists and workers who put their
hardwork into what we already pay for. Our entertainm ent could be turned corrupt if AI continues to unlawfully steal their voices, faces,
and works of art, and I don't want m y fellow Am ericans to suffer a loss in m ore of our working force that allows us to feel a bit of
reprieve in our day to day lives.
So I end off m y com m ent with the want for the reconsideration of AI on the internet. The AI Plan m ay seem  prom ising, but without the
legal security of our online safety with the pursuit for m ore AI is hard to m ake m e, an Am erican, feel safe about this unlawful use of AI
scanning all of our inform ation and pictures that can be used to falsely accuse innocent people of very heinous crim es.


