PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-id34-4zfk
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2189
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Governm ent Agency Type:  Foreign
Governm ent Agency:  TourScanner
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
AI Action Plan United States


March 14, 2025 
From: Simone Semprini 
Founder & CEO TourScanner 
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
TourScanner is a small web  business operating in the field of travel, more specifically tours and 
activities.  TourScanner was employing over 40 talents, many of which Amer icans, before having the business 
erased by the monopolistic behavior of Google.  
Starting from September 2023, a series of updates made by Google with the intent to monopolize 
further the web, reducing the traffic to millions of web businesses, after having consumed their content to train Gemini model, without any copyright permission from us. 
Today our proprietary content, together with other millions of websites, has become the basis of the 
intelligence of the AI models (Gemini, ChatGPT, etc.), but we, the owner of the work, have gained 
nothing. Not only we didn’t earn anything, but our businesses have been destroyed by the behavior 
of Google, which gives precedence to its own AI made replies and tools. 
Even if a user searches a query with our brand name appended, Google will make up a result with 
AI and provide that result as first choice, with most of the view space used for that result.  
The lack of a law protecting human creators against the abusive use of their content has already 
killed the remuneration mechanism that was the basis of a healthy web ecosystem. 
The web of tomorrow is a web that is not “web ” anymore, it will be just an oligopoly of huge AI 
companies which will become the sole owner and managers of the entire world information.  
Of course, considering the monopoly that Google has over the web, Google in its AI vest will 
become the only owner of the web.  
This is a threat to the freedom of the society. 
Short term, those companies (mostly Google) will see massive gains, until the moment in which the 
desert created by their technology will become a problem.  
The AI will not have anything new to be trained on. This is not something that will happen in the future, it has already happened. 
In our company and in millions of companies worldwide, the creation and improvement of content 
has stopped about 12 months ago, when it appeared clear that Google was going to take over the 
web. After many months of economic losses, our company could not invest in new content 
anymore, and we stopped working on that. The same has happened to many companies.  
The claim made by Chegg vs Google clarifies very well the situation in which we are. 


We urge the United States administration to create a real policy to protect the creators of content, 
artworks, books, and intellectual properties. 
If the proprietary content is used for training, a licensing scheme must exist and the use of that 
content must be compensated.  
Those companies, mostly Google and OpenAI, went already too far in breaching copyright law 
without any repercussion on them, with the result of killing millions of businesses and destroy the 
remuneration scheme that existed before, that was driving innovation and intellectual properties creation. 


