PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-360s-pajb
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9200
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Logan  T hresher  
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
AI Action Plan com m ent


I am an American citizen studying computer science, and who has an interest in 
pursuing creative fields like illustration.
Generative AI made by Big Tech companies such as OpenAI (backed by Microsoft) 
and Google threaten to destroy the livelihoods of millions of Americans with their 
recent demand to weaken copyright law. 
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work made by people. My unique 
work, and the work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators was 
taken and fed into these AI systems without our consent or any compensation. They 
ingest our work, reassemble it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly competing 
with us and cutting us out of the marketplace.
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and 
loopholes to make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal 
precedent. They are suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted 
work, it is somehow suddenly “fair use”. However, the principle of fair use is clearly 
violated as the outputs of generative AI directly compete with the creators it stole 
from in the marketplace, as stated before.
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who 
owns it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not 
allow them to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to 
protect the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will 
be stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans 
create a new and innovative piece of computer programming, a new visual design, or a 
new piece of music only to have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why 
bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly make a living doing these 
things? This will ultimately greatly harm the economy in the long run.
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new 
copyright exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from 
creators and everyday Americans without permission, compensation, and 
transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to 
Big Tech companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:


•First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give
effective consent, so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI
systems. This should include everything posted on the internet, such as social
media posts, as even these have been scraped by Big Tech companies and are
also protected by copyright law. It is important the consent given is done through
opt-in rather than opt-out. It is near impossible to find out every single
unauthorized use of a work, and so opt-in is the only viable option.
•Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so
that the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has
immense economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to
the original creators, not just Big Tech. Licensing should be given out by the
actual creators, not whatever website it is hosted on since the original creators
are the actual copyright holders.
•Third, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what all material is in their training datasets, and label
what content is AI generated. Without proper labeling, it is very easy to use
generative AI for fraudulent purposes, such as fooling a client into thinking an
image was made by a human when it actually was not. In addition, keeping the
dataset a secret obscures what exact work has been used. Many generative AI
companies keep their datasets secret so it is harder to rightfully sue them, since
they have used many works without permission.
•Fourth, regardless of copyright it should be illegal to use anyone’s likeness or
voice with generative AI without consent. It is a horrific privacy violation to
generate false scenarios and quotes of people that can easily be used to harm
them.
•Fifth, the datasets used for generative AI should be completely free of personal
identifiable information. Many current generative AI models use an avalanche of
data scraped from the internet, which includes leaked PII. And so, they can
further leak PII to anyone who uses them, including to foreign countries. This is
why it is foolish to pursue generative AI for the sake of “national security”, since it
actually weakens national security by leaking information and stagnating the
economy.
•Finally, under no circumstances should AI generated outputs be protected by
copyright. The USCO has already made it clear that works made with no human
effort are not eligible for this protection. Giving AI outputs copyright would only
further deincentivize actual human creation and innovation.


I am not anti-technology or anti-AI, this is made evident by what I am studying in 
college. However , we should not sacrifice the hard work of millions of Americans and 
give it away to Big Tech for free by rewriting copyright law. For what reason should these
Big Tech companies freely steal away the hard work of creatives? The data scraped from 
the internet is clearly desirable. If these companies can pay for electricity and 
employees, they can also pay the creators of creative works by acquiring actual 
licenses the legal way.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


