PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025  
Received: March 15, 2025   
Tracking No. m8a-uljd-75hs  
Comments Due: March 15, 
2025  Submission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3416
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Sabrina Espinoza
General Comment
I believe that retaining copyright protections upon publicly-posted art and inform ation is not only vital to the rights of their creators and
researchers, but that to rem ove them  would be a blatant violation of both free speech and dam age to the spirit of creative integrity.
There is a word for m aking use of som ething without paying for the rightful use of it to the original creators. Piracy.
Throughout the history of the world, creators have fought tooth and nail to be able to retain the use of their creative property and not risk
it being stolen from  them  to be used by another who will neither credit nor pay fairly for the use of what has been used of theirs by others.
It would be like renting a car and then not paying for either it or the gas which the owner will have to replenish them selves. Copyright laws
exist in the United States to protect creators. And allowing OpenAI and other generative AI creators to stom p all over copyright laws is
an insult to everyone who has ever put effort into creating som ething.
Allowing OpenAI to have free access to steal and m ake use of what others have created is not a m atter of national security as they seem
to claim . It is blatant theft and piracy and should not be sanctioned by the governm ent or any other ruling body.
OpenAI and other generative AI has proven repeatedly that it is a bottom less resources sink and nothing put into it has turned up anything
of true value, and in fact has caused num erous counts of m isinform ation in a tim e when m isinform ation is a m ajor point of concern in the
country.
Do not allow OpenAI or any generative AI program  to have unfettered power to utilize anything they see fit. Do not protect them  as they
steal the hard work and inform ation of others, especially as these technologies have shown how m uch harm  they've done in such a short
am ount of tim e as they've been around.


