PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-o9xt-9h2r
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2622
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Matthew Bedell 
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Bedell RFI Response - AI Works and Hum an Authorship


   
 
 1  
 Re: Request for Information on the Development of an “AI Action Plan”  
Submitted to: Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) 
National Coordination Office (NCO), National Science Foundation. (   
Submitted By: Matthew Bedell,  
Date: March 15, 2025  
My name is Matthew Bedell. I am a first-year law student at the University of Akron School 
of Law studying Artificial Intelligence (AI) Law and Policy. I pen this comment to provide input 
on the developm ent of the AI Action Plan. My growing expertise in this area informs this response 
which addresses human creativity in prompts and whether that creativity is copyrightable.  
This comment serves as a counterargument that any final product containing purely AI-
generated material cannot have human authorship. Human advancement is being stymied by over -
restrictive rules governing AI and human authorship. The United States Copyright Office  (USCO)  
has begun to change its stance with the recently released second part of the Copyright and Artificial 
Intelligence report. However, these changes are insufficiently clear enough to  allow for  human 
authorship of  copyright able material made by AI  and overseen by a person .  
I will explore the argument that human authorship comes from creative expression, that AI 
empowers  said expression, and that utilizing AI in furtherance of creative expression is therefore 
owned by the human author.  
a. Today’s Generative AI Services Cannot Produce Works Without Human 
Intervention  Because They Are Not Given Human Authorship . 
The USCO allows for AI tools to assist with, but not stand in for, human creativity. U.S. 
Copyright Office, Copyright and Artificial Intelligence: Part 2 – Copyrightability  iii (2025),  
https://www.copyright.gov/ai/Copyright -and-Artificial -Intelligence -Part-2-Copyrightability -
Report.pdf . Expanding the idea that copyright protects original  human expression, even if it 
includes the work of an AI. Id. However, at the present, non-human authorship continues to not 
receive any copyright protection .  


   
 
 2  
 One example is  Naruto v. Slater , where  the Ninth Circuit  denied  a monkey copyright 
protection s after the monkey took a picture of itself . Naruto v. Slater , 888 F.3 d 418 (9th Cir. 2018)  
This line of reasoning was cited in Thaler v. Perlmutter ; which  affirmed this reasoning by denying  
the copyrightability of an image generated by AI  for lack of human authorship . Thaler v. 
Perlmutter , 687 F. Supp. 3d 140 (D.D.C. 2023).  While Naruto  was decided on standing terms, the 
line of reasoning is analogous to why Thaler was denied copyright . In both cases,  the creation was 
not of human origin and therefore does not qualify for  authorship.  I disagree with the premises of 
this line of reasoning. However,  Thaler  follows a  common interpretation of 17 U.S.C. 102(a), 
where “original works ” can only be created by human authorship.  
This can be seen in the administrative decision on Zarya of the Dawn made by the U.S. 
Copyright Office. In Zarya  of the Dawn, the USCO  cancelled the original certificate of registration 
of the entire comic and issued a new certificate allowing only the “text” and excluding  the AI -
artwork.  United States Copyright Office,  Decision on Registration of  Zarya of the Dawn , 
Registration # VAu001480196 (Feb. 21, 2023 ). The USCO  explain ed that it “will refuse to register 
a claim if it determines that a human being did not create the work.”  U.S. COPYRIGHT OFFICE, 
COMPENDIUM OF U.S. COPYRIGHT OFFICE PRACTICES § 313.2 (3d ed. 2021) 
(“COMPENDIUM (THIRD)”). This is b ecause the artwork in Zarya  was created by an AI called 
Midjourney, the Copyright Office applied the principle that AI cannot be given human authorship 
and found that the artwork could not be copyrighted. Kristina Kashtanova, the creator of the 
disputed work, was left with only the text—a hollow consolation for an artist whose vision was 
brought to life through AI -generated illustrati ons, the very essence of her creative expression.  
The same thing happened in Théâtre D'opéra Spatial , where  an AI -generated image —also 
created using Midjourney —was denied copyright protection by the USCO Review Board because 
it contained more than a de minimis  amount of AI -generated content . U.S. Copyright Office 


   
 
 3  
 Review Board, Decision on Registration of Théâtre D’Opéra Spatial  1 (Sept. 5, 2023), 
https://www.copyright.gov/rulings -filings/review -board/docs/Theatre -Dopera -Spatial.pdf . The 
human author, Jason Michael Allen, explained that he used numerous revisions in addition to 624 
text prompts to create the image. Id. at 2. In addition, Mr. Allen used Gigapixel AI to upscale the 
image and edited  the final image using Photoshop. Id. The USCO does not want AI to have human 
authorship, y et the premise that a human is not intimately  involved in the creative expression  does 
not have to be actively assumed . 
b. In Some Cases, Human -Supplied Prompts to Generative AI Services are Sufficient 
Human Control for Copyrightability Purposes.  
The prompt in itself is written expression . Thus, the output should not be seen as 
disembodied from the human author, but instead it should be viewed as a tool that is an extension 
of the human author. This is because AI cannot create anything on its own , "[p]rompts are vital for 
LLMs because they serve as the primary mechanism for translating user intentions into actionable 
outputs.”  Hewing and Leinhos, The Prompt Canvas: A Literature -Based Practitioner Guide for 
Creating Effective Prompts in Large Language Models , arXiv (preprint) No. arXiv:2412.05127 at 
2 (2024).  Prompting the AI causes it to begin searching through its neural network to decide what 
the best output is . Because AI cannot create anything unprompted, it needs human intervention to 
make any creation and thus the human authorship causes the AI -creation.  
Would that level of human involvement —crafting precise prompts to achieve a consistent 
artistic vision —be enough to warrant copyright protection, or does the reliance on AI diminish the 
claim to authorship? I pose an academic challenge. Make an AI create p ictures of something, 
anything, to match an artistic vision. There is real creativity in inventing prompts to get an AI to 
produce content that is consistent in quality and style. It is my belief that this creativity should be 


   
 
 4  
 rewarded. That prompts are recognized as written, creative expression, and that therefore the AI 
output is the human author’s.  
As an example, the USCO would protect audiovisual works made with tools such as 
Photoshop. However , Photoshop has recently added AI features, having a “Generative Fill” and 
“Generative Expand.” Adobe, https://www.adobe.com/products/photoshop/ai.html (last visited 
Mar. 14, 2025) . We would not say that because the product came from Photoshop, somehow it 
lacks human authorship even if it used AI functions to create a specialized image. The new 
guidance from the USCO explicitly allows for human authorship of creative expression  assisted 
by AI tools. Photoshop was used by Mr. Allen  in the creation of Théâtre D'opéra Spatial . He used 
it in addition to the AI tools. He directed and prompted the AI to create an image that is consistent 
with his artistic vision. Why the n, does Mr. Allen lack human authorship over his creation?  
I want to express that t here is a continuum balanc ing how far AI tools can be used with 
minimal human involvement . There can be situations where a human author creates a small prompt 
and obtains a big output. That would be a situation where an AI is the actual author, not a human.  
Having said that,  there is a lot of creative energy and work that goes into creative 
expression that  embodies human authorship. Such effort may be hard to see when an AI could 
produce content with just a prompt, yet the effort to complete creative expression is a use of  the 
AI as a tool . The opposing view is that authors would lose copyright protections simply because 
AI was partially used, just like Ms. Kashtanova was with her comic  Zarya  and Mr. Allen was with 
Théâtre D'opéra Spatial . The USCO does not have to assume that AI was primarily  responsible 
for creative expression. For without human creativity and the prompts that come with that 
creativity , AI would create nothing at all . 
  


   
 
 5  
 C. This Document is Approved for Public Dissemination.  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  


