PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1c8r-lffl
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7653
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Joshua Bouton
Address:
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
com m ent


From: 
Joshua Bouton 
Laboratory Technician  
Re: National Science Foundation’ s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
I am an everyday American who creates art on the side and has several working relationships 
with professional artists. 
The AI sy stems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google 
threaten to destroy thousands of American small businesses like those of my friends and 
partners with their rece nt demand to create special carve outs in copyright law. 
AI system s can only be produced by first training on w ork made by peopl e. Their unique work, 
and the w ork of hundred s of thousands of other everyday American creator s was taken and fed 
into these AI system s witho ut our consent or any compensation. They ingest their work, 
reassemble it, an d then sell it bac k to their clients – directly competing wit h them and cutting 
them out of the marketplace. 
Now these Big Tech companies are asking thi s administration to create exception s and 
loopholes t o mak e this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. 
They are suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduce s copyrighted work, it is somehow 
suddenly “fair use”.  
Big Tech seems to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who 
owns it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow 
them to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.  
Instead, it will hav e the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to 
protect the incentive to create an d innovate.  
If we, the American people, do not own our creations, and everything we p ut online will be 
stolen by Bi g Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyda y American s create a 
new innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of musi c only to 
have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? 
How will we possibly make a living doing the se things? 
Want to protect American innovation? Protect America n creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemption s that allow Big Tech companie s to exploit and steal from creators and 
everyday Americans witho ut permission, compensation, or transparency. 
This administration’ s AI Action Plan shoul d focus not on giving away creat or content to Bi g Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition: 
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.


Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that
the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense
economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original
creators, not just Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what
content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard 
work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright 
law. 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issue s. 


