PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2p6q-4i7d
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8785
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Jarren Jennings
Address:
General Comment
I am  an average US citizen. Every aspiration I have, and every industry I hope to join or enjoy the creations of, is threatened by this
decision.
(Additional points and original form atting can be found in the attached docum ent.)
The special carve outs in copyright law dem anded by OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google for their AI System s would do unprecedented
dam age to countless US industries. It would be an insult to the idea of a fair and com petitive m arket.
If you ask nearly any person who has had their life’s work taken for training data without perm ission, they are deeply opposed to it. Does
their voice not m atter?
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. Without their work, AI system s would not function. Just that
alone proves that the work is incredibly valuable, yet these com panies dem and to steal it freely. This is not “fair use”, it would be no
different than allowing a car com pany to steal proprietary parts from  a com petitor. It would not be fair for the com petitor, it is not fair to
the producers of this work.
People have spent their life studying and honing their knowledge, skills, and craft. These com panies wish to leech off that hard work, then
force these people to com pete against their own efforts. They are biting the hand that unwillingly feeds them . And they don’t even offer
credit, let alone com pensation. They believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should be theirs for
the taking.
These com panies are asking this adm inistration to create exceptions and loopholes to m ake this practice of stealing Am erican creators’
copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a m achine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is som ehow
suddenly “fair use”. They claim  that if this adm inistration does not allow them  to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle Am erican
innovation, but this is a lie.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of Am erican copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate.
Allowing this will directly undercut countless industries' ability to innovate.
These com panies not only want com plete m arket control, they want the governm ent to bail them  out from  the poor business decision of
building their m achines on parts they don’t own. If anyone else suggested this they would be laughed out of the room .
If we the Am erican people do not own our creations, and everything we put online can be freely stolen and reproduced by AI
Com panies, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Am ericans create a new innovative piece of com puter code, a new visual
design, or a new piece of m usic, only to have it im m ediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How
will we possibly m ake a living doing these things?
If we wish to protect Am erican innovation, we need to protect Am erican creators and innovators. Do not create new copyright
exem ptions that allow these com panies to exploit and steal from  creators, innovators, and everyday Am ericans without perm ission,


com pensation, or transparency.
Thank you for the opportunity to com m ent on these im portant issues. I pray that the right decision is m ade and the honest work of the
Am erican people is protected.
Attachments
Jarren Jennings' Com m ent


March 15, 2025 
Jarren Longstreet Jennings 
Artist and Independent Game Developer 
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
I am an average US citizen. Every aspiration I have, and every industry I hope to join or enjoy 
the creations of, is threatened by this decision. 
The special carve outs in copyright law demanded by OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google for 
their AI Systems would do unprecedented damage to countless US industries. It would 
be an insult to the idea of a fair and competitive market. 
If you ask nearly any person who has had their life’s work taken for training data without 
permission, they are deeply opposed to it. Does their voice not matter? 
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work made by people. Without their work, 
AI syst ems would not function. Just that alone proves that the work is incredibly valuable, yet 
these companies demand to steal it freely. This is not “fair use”, it would be no different than 
allowing a car company to steal proprietary parts from a competitor. It would not be fair for the 
compet itor, it is not fair to the producers of this work. 
People have spent their life studying and honing their knowledge, skills, and craft. These 
companie s wish to leech off that hard work, then force these people to compete against their 
own ef forts. They are biting the hand that unwillingly feeds them. And they don’t even offer 
credit, let alone compensation. They believe that anything and everything on the internet – 
regardless of who owns it – should be theirs for the taking. 
These companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and loopholes to make this 
practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggesting 
that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow suddenly “fair use”. 
They claim that if this administration does not allow them to rewrite the law in this way, it 
will stifle American innovation, but this is a lie. 
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to protect 
the incentive to create and innovate. Allowing this will directly undercut countless 
industries' ability to innovate. 
These companies not only want complete market control, they want the government to 
bail them out from the poor business decision of building their machines on parts they 
don’t own. If anyone else suggested this they would be laughed out of the room. 


 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online can be freely 
stolen and reproduced by AI Companies, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday 
Americans create a new innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece 
of music, only to have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in 
the first place? How will we possibly make a living doing these things? 
 
If we wish to protect American innovation, we need to protect American creators and innovators. 
Do not create new copyright exemptions that allow these companies to exploit and steal 
from creators, innovators, and everyday Americans without permission, compensation, 
or transparency. 
 
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away American’s work to tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition: 
 ● First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans have 
effective and protected consent, so that we can decide when and where our work is 
used by AI systems.  
● Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that 
the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense 
economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original 
creators, not just greedy AI Companies.  
● Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from AI companies, requiring 
them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI 
generated.  
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard 
work of countless Americans and give it away to these companies by fundamentally rewriting 
copyright law just for them. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues. I pray that the right 
decision is made and the honest work of the American people is protected. 


