PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-ci02-dxet
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1888
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Michael Pri nke 
General Comment
Hello,
I’m  a software engineer working in the tech sector, and I m ust express m y extrem e displeasure at the uncritical support the President
wants to throw behind generative AI.
It’s a scam . The biggest investm ent scam  in history. 
The prom ise is a m agic m achine that can think and do anything like a hum an can. The reality is that it’s a text auto-com plete m achine that
eats the com bined electricity and processing power of m ultiple data centers to incorrectly tell you to put glue on pizza. It does not know
what you are asking. It does not know what it is saying in response. It is sim ply trying to figure out what the statistically m ost likely next
word in a sentence is. It not only has m inim al application due to its gibberish responses, poor grasp of factual inform ation, and inability to
understand feedback, it is also a MASSIVE security risk, in that users are freely subm itting a bunch of inform ation to whoever owns the
AI. As such, no corporation in its right m ind will perm it using it. I work at a m ajor entertainm ent software com pany, and our stance is: DO
NOT USE CHATGPT EVER, because it is a huge security threat.
This isn’t worth tossing copyright to the wind for. The chilling effect you would create by letting the fraudulent AI industry freely train on
copyrighted data would be disastrous for the Am erican econom y, as individual creators would now be subject to ram pant, unfettered
abuse by tech giants. Sharing inform ation, creative projects, even sim ple drawings will be discouraged so harshly as to put whole
industries at a standstill, all to prop up a doom ed product. It’s at a dead end in term s of so-called “reasoning” ability, and an even worse
dead end for financial solvency, as AI com panies continue to waste billions on data centers that produce nothing.
Don’t bail these losers out. Support real work by real Am ericans. If you want to put one over on China, m ake the US a safe place for
innovators to share their work, not a haven for just one industry at the expense of all others. Uphold copyright.


