PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2j1a-ek0l
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8354
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Austin Lem m ons
General Comment
From:
Austin Lemmons
Music Teacher
Re: Nat ional Science Fo undation’s Request for Information on t he Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am an e veryday American who owns a small visual des ign business which ser ves clients in the entertainment industry. I have worked  
hard for years to de velop the skills and knowledge to b uild my business, a nd have been lucky e nough to make a dece nt living and support  
my family – until rece ntly.
The AI systems made by Big Tech co mpanies like Ope nAI (Microso ft) and Google threaten to destroy t housands of American small 
businesses like mine with their rece nt demand to create spec ial car ve outs in cop yright law.
AI systems can o nly be prod uced by first tra ining on work made by peop le. My unique work, a nd the work of hundreds of t housands of  
other everyday American creators was taken a nd fed into these AI systems without our consent or a ny compensation. They ingest our 
work, reasse mble it, and then sell it back to o ur clients – d irectly competing with us and cutting us out of the marketp lace.
Now t hese Big Tech co mpanies are ask ing this administration to create e xceptions and loopholes to make this pract ice of stea ling 
American creators’ cop yrighted work legal precede nt. They are s uggesting that if a machine ingests a nd reprod uces cop yrighted work, it 
is somehow suddenly “fair use”. 
They seem to be lieve that anything and everything on t he internet – re gardless of who owns it – should be t heirs for the taking. They claim 
that if this administration does not allow them to re write the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the oppos ite effect. The purpose of American cop yright law is to protect t he incentive to create a nd innovate. 
If we the American peop le do not own our creat ions, and everything we put online will be sto len by Big Tech giants, what will be the 
incentive to create? If e veryday Americans create a new innovative piece of co mputer code, a new visual des ign, or a new piece of music 
only to have it immediately stolen by Google and Microso ft, why bother creat ing it in the first place? How will we poss ibly make a living 
doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new cop yright exemptions that allow Big Tech 
companies to e xploit and steal from creators a nd everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or tra nspare ncy.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator co ntent to Big Tech co mpanies, but rather on e nsuring a fair 
marketp lace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators a nd everyday Americans give effective consent, so t hat we can dec ide when and where 
our work is used by AI systems.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a rob ust licensing marketp lace, so t hat the incentive to create for small businesses is 
preser ved. O ur work has immense eco nomic value, so t he value generated by t hat work should accr ue to the original creators, not just 
Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should req uire tra nspare ncy from Big Tech co mpanies, req uiring them to d isclose what material is in their 
training datasets, a nd label what content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or a nti-AI. I am co nsistently impressed by t he capab ilities of t hese AI systems, and find them incredibly useful for 
many things. But we should not sacr ifice the hard work of hundreds of t housands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by re writing 
copyright law.
Thank you for the opport unity to co mment on these importa nt issues


