PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-071v-tsvi
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6415
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
March 14, 2025
From : Anonym ous
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
Good Day,
Due to the alarm ing series of lies and m anipulation being em ployed by tech giants like OpenAi, Meta, Google, And Microsoft, to try and
destroy individual copyright protections I feel the need to respond. 
Be It no surprise to any reading this, I am  an Artist. As such one of the criteria of being an artist, sim ple but required, is that I am  Hum an; I
am  Sentient. I am  afforded protections of m y work because of this, and because the governm ent, MY governm ent of The United States,
along with every other governm ent who signed Berne, realized that creative and technical fields would collapse without international
protections. And, while I am  unable to find work without signing away certain rights to m y work to a production com pany, I have -never-
signed away the right to be replaced by clones of m y work or for the rights to m y personal work which I show publicly to friends and
fam ily to be torn from  m e. Such a thing would be a figurative, and , eventually literal, suicide. 
On the surface, the technology seem s im pressive, and frankly, the idea that an algorithm  largely designed to address non-equilibrium
therm odynam ics data, is som ething to applaud. As som eone who has a m inor background in program m ing, and working in software
developm ent for decades now, I can appreciate the feat. Tech is a great feat of hum an ingenuity, and in general isn't to be feared as long
as we do the right things with it but sacrificing hum an creativity, hum an interactions, hum an intelligence, for the m ind-dulling effects of
generative m odels, is not the way to m ove forward. 
These com panies want to prom ise infinite m oney that will never com e, and has failed to m anifest such a thing in the past two decades from
Web3, Crypto, NFT's, the MetaVerse, all of which lead to very obvious Ponzie Schem es, RugPulls, and Snake Oil. 
The fact is, while there are som e uses for what is being term ed “ Ai”, none of the actual helpful fields Require the theft of creative and
personal creations and speech by others. Yet for som e reason its the only thing they can seem  to think of when trying to m arket their
product with ad's like:
-Deep faking im ages to lie to your boss that you're going to be late.
-Stealing code from  websites that dedicate their hard work and tim e to trying to produce educational resources which in turn keep the site
itself alive and available.
-Stealing headlines from  news sites , and returning them  Incorrectly 60% of the tim e, both m isinform ing the public and preventing a very
Vital part of our ability to have freedom  of speech and inform ation.
-Generating a wall of filler text to pretend to be knowledgeable about a subject.


Generative “Ai” software is no m ore than a fancy set of filters built off the derived value of others works. Its accurately been described as
a com pressed search engine in the case of written text, im ages, and video. One could not realistically say that Google Search was
“learning like a hum an” in any serious regard when they used SEO to m ake searches m ore reliable, nor could they claim  Google has
copyright over the things produced from  those search results. Yet here Google and others want us to believe that they should own what
they have taken sim ply because it can rem ix those results at recursively random  intervals?
Gutting the protections on creative and hum an works would destroy any incentive for creative or hum an works of any real value going
forward. This fact is explicitly WHY we had copyright protections in the first place. Its anti Am erican to presum e that we should steal
from  everyone and hand their futures to a handful of tech com panies who are only doing it for that m oney and just have to keep lying
about what the end stage will look like before they m ake a swift exit. 
What the governm ent needs to be doing is forcing transparency with EVERY tech com pany claim ing to have an Ai, forcing them  to reveal
sources, chain of ownership of that data, and ensuring that Am ericans and even our allies are protected from  a ring of tech thugs looking
to betray us the people, and you the governm ent, the m om ent they feel it serves them  m onetarily. 
Do not m ake one of the largest m istakes in hum an history here. 
Thank you.


