PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 88-v4wu-67xd
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1333
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Ava Monkel is 
General Comment
My nam e is Ava Monkelis and I am  a m em ber of the graduating class of 2025 at Avonworth High School. I com pleted a sem ester course
on AI and Ethics and studied the im pacts of Generative AI on creativity. EO 14179 will undoubtedly boost AI integration into society as
well as allow room  for com panies to develop their training m odels. However, in doing so without any regulation whatsoever the ethical
perspective becom es m orally grey. This am biguity leaves room  for error and could harm  a lot of people. Creativity is a broad spectrum
and doesn't always have to align solely within the arts com m unity, and in fact is present in sim ple daily life. As a student, oftentim es when
given an assignm ent there isn't one definitive way to com plete it, and each individual has their own process that works in their favor. The
ability to choose what works and is m ost efficient greatly im proves quality of life. That alone is creativity; the freedom  to choose how to
com plete a task. AI at its core is m ath and is based on softwares, algorithm s etc, and is designed specifically so that an input constitutes an
equal and opposite output. This is extrem ely efficient and a useful tool that I have personally used m any tim es, but the philosophy behind
m athem atics is directly opposite to creativity. This isn't an inherently bad thing, but there is an unspoken com petition between the two
industries creating the idea that only one can exist. 
I understand the reasoning for wanting to not put regulations on AI developm ent because it is and will continue to change the world, and
also provides opportunity for econom ic growth with how successful the m ajor technology com panies are. I also agree that AI should be
encouraged and continue to be developed because it isn't going anywhere so we m ight as well use it to our advantage. However in doing
so without any regulations people are not properly educated about how to use it safely, and are therefore prone to deep fake scam s, and
also their data being com prom ised by these com panies legally because of the already slim  regulations. There are several ongoing instances
where artists specifically have their work essentially stolen by com panies using it to treat their large language m odels, and outside of the
arts com m unity who knows what the full capabilities are. Regulation is necessary to obtain the full benefits. It's not a lim it but rather a
precaution to protect the general public, and to hopefully lead to flourishing. 


