PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1r78-e8hk
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7706
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Torberg Tonnessen
Address:
General Comment
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
Creative individual like writers, artists, actors, and m ore have spent innum erable tim e and effort to develop their abilities in their crafts.
The AI system s m ade by Big Tech com panies like OpenAI (Microsoft), Google, Meta, and X threaten to destroy the livelihoods of
creative Am erican individuals with their recent dem and to create special carve outs in copyright law.
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. Their unique work, and the work of hundreds of thousands of
other everyday Am erican creators was taken and fed into these AI system s without their consent or com pensation. These com panies
ingest their work, reassem ble it, and then sell it back, com peting and undercutting the very people on whose work these com panies relied
for their training data
Now these Big Tech com panies are asking this adm inistration to create exceptions and loopholes to m ake this practice of stealing
Am erican creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a m achine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it
is som ehow suddenly “fair use”. 
They seem  to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim
that if this adm inistration does not allow them  to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle Am erican innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of Am erican copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the Am erican people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the
incentive to create? If everyday Am ericans create a new innovative piece of com puter code, a new visual design, or a new piece of m usic
only to have it im m ediately stolen by Google, Microsoft, Meta, and X, why bother creating it in the first place? How can they possibly
m ake a living doing these things?
Want to protect Am erican innovation? Protect Am erican creators. Do not create new copyright exem ptions that allow Big Tech
com panies to exploit and steal from  creators and everyday Am ericans without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency.
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech com panies, but rather on ensuring a fair
m arketplace with com petition:
• First, the governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, so that they can decide when and
where (or even if) their work is used by AI system s.
• Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is
preserved. Their work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just
Big Tech.


• Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their
training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
These system  are being used to replace the efforts, works, and livelihoods of actual people. Technology should be supporting people so
that they have tim e and opportunity to create; not stealing their efforts and pushing them  to the side.
Thank you.


