PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-lfh9-dibv
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2395
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
Em ail:  
General Comment
OpenAI, and by extension, generative AI doesn’t have a place in the future of the US. AI com panies should be held to the letter of the
law and not get to use the works of Am erican workers without any com pensation. Generative AI offers little to no benefit to the future of
this country. Much of the prospective use touted by OpenAI is technology that already exists and isn't m ade m ore efficient with the use of
generative AI. Large language m odels (LLMs) cannot be used to replace hum an writers. They have good use for functions like text
suggestion, which is a very lim ited tool in and of itself. Any com m unicator/author regularly using generative AI will m ake them selves reliant
on a tool prone to error and only trying to m ake suggestions. AI does not *think*. An im portant distinction between an algorithm  and a
full hum an m ind is that the algorithm  is not thinking. It can be a seem ingly close logical sim ulacrum  to thought, but it is effectively fulfilling a
set of directions/form ulas basing its answer on previously provided data. AI can only reshape data, hum an m inds do m uch m ore than that.
Creative inspiration is practically divine in how weirdly organic it is. The line drawn between creativity and logical thinking is a huge
m isconception. Both feed into each other. One can easily exam ine that em otional m otivation drives both in people. AI cannot feel, thus it
can't think. It can be a good tool for needing som ething parroted rapidly, but it cannot grasp context and build upon a real lifetim e of lived
experiences to understand the situations it's solving or to com e upon inspiration.
AI will not lead to prosperity for anyone. It is a tech buzzword that tries to conflate a ton of different technologies and industries under one
m oniker and ties it to a specific new kind of technology, that of generative AI/generative content m odels. These m odels have shown no
practical benefit outside of extrem ely sm all use cases. All corporations that have tried to integrate AI into their products and pushed their
advertising to showcase it have had a ton of backlash, confusion, and disinterest. The Am erican public does not care about AI. Those
who do are, for the m ost part, vehem ently against it.
The only action the federal governm ent should take in regard to generative AI is protecting the Am erican workers it seeks to replace and
the works of m edia by Am erican creatives AI seeks to use without com pensation to replace said creatives.


