PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-tpoc-8685
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3284
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Daniel Shumway 
General Comment
Modern LLMs are a scam . They're not useless, but they are far over-hyped for their capabilities. Every consum er product I have seen
with LLMs perform s worse than is prom ised. Prom inently hyped products like the Hum ane pin literally went under their AI integrations
were so bad. And they are all wired up to ChatGPT and sim ilar.
These things DO NOT WORK - not to the degree that anyone is prom ising, and there is no indication that they are going to get better.
OpenAI has been throwing m ore and m ore data at their stuff for m arginal-at-best im provem ents. They have no plan. They are selling a
fantasy.
Which, fine, who cares? Lots of tech is over-hyped and doesn't work. It's only a problem  when m assive am ounts of the econom y get
dedicated to these scam s and the owners of these scam  com panies get given huge am ounts of legal privileges to prop them selves up as
essential when in fact they are just burning everybody's cash.
That's what OpenAI, Microsoft, Anthropic, Meta, and all of the others want.
----
Sam  Altm an is a scam m er. Period. His last scam  was an orb that scanned your eyeball. That eventually burnt up, so now his latest scam
involves getting billions of dollars of investm ent capital (often subsidized by consum ers and taxpayers) while com m itting widespread
copyright violations and outright piracy - and now he's out saying that without perm ission to ignore copyright law the AI race is over.
There is no AI race. This. Crap. Doesn't. Work.
Apple just had to do one of its first product delays in (I think) over a *decade* because this crap doesn't work. Apple shipped features
around AI sum m arizing news articles, and had to *rem ove* them  from  their operating system , because this crap doesn't work.
AI doesn't need investm ent or careful stewarding. Instead, the com panies propping it up even though consum ers don't want it and even
though it produces wildly unreliable output - those com panies need a bucket of cold water poured over their heads so that they can wake
up and com e back to reality with the rest of us.
They definitely do not need copyright exem ptions. Meta is facing a lawsuit for straight-up piracy - torrenting copyrighted books, seeding
the downloads - this is a thing people have gotten thrown in prison for. Why on earth should Meta be excused from  the consequences of
blatantly violating existing law? Because they released an LLM that doesn't really work well and that got im m ediately got overshadowed
by China's LLM that also doesn't really work well?
What we need from  the governm ent right now is recognition that this is a bubble that has the potential to bring down the entire tech
industry, that no one is actually m aking m oney off of this, that it is wildly insecure, and that consum ers don't want it - and that the
governm ent does not need to subsidize or support this waste of m oney. We're in the m iddle of cutting the education departm ent, we don't
need to subsidize Mark Zuckerberg or Sam  Altm an. And if we're going to revise copyright law, there are ton of areas (right to repair, data


portability, digital preservation) that would be better to focus on - areas where we could actually solve US problem s.
----
Of course, what Sam  Altm an and his ilk are threatening is that China will "win the AI race."
First off, they're not going to. But secondly, if they do, then *LET THEM*. This is like having a race to see who's fastest at eating a
sandwich m ade of poop. The winning m ove is to stop eating the sandwich.
The technology being pushed here fundam entally cannot be used to build AGI. It is not possible. And there is NO indication that the
technology is going to get m uch better than where it is now (at least not any tim e soon), and no indication that the fundam ental problem s
with inaccuracy, context loss, and security are ever going to be solved. Any country that is staking its future on this technology is *stupid*.
And if China wants to be stupid? Let them  be stupid. It is only to our benefit.
What we need to be focusing on as a nation is how to shield workers and the stock m arket when all of the tech com panies stop being able
to pretend that this is anything other than unprofitable. The bubble is going to pop at som e point; virtually no one is actually m aking m oney
off of AI, and the new m odel releases keep getting m ore and m ore disappointing.
An AI strategy that is good for Am erica should be about reducing the im pact when that bubble pops. We certainly do not need to invest
m ore resources into it, and we certainly do not need to subsidize or sponsor its developm ent, and we certainly do not need to give
com panies like Meta and OpenAI licenses to violate existing copyright.


