PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-up0m -ieqs
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3479
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Artificial Intelligence Infrastructure Coalition (AIC)
General Comment
On behalf of the AI Infrastructure Coalition, CO2EFFICIENT is pleased to subm it a response to the Request for Inform ation regarding
an AI Action Plan from  the National Coordination Office (NCO) of the Networking and Inform ation Technology Research and
Developm ent (NITRD) and the National Science Foundation. 
We hope this inform ation is useful in the developm ent of an AI Action Plan to advance Am erica’s AI leadership. Please feel free to reach
out if you have any questions or would like any elaborations. 
Thank you for the opportunity to contribute to this priority work.
See attached file(s)
Attachments
AI Infrastructure Coalition Response to NSF RFI 250315


Page 1 of 12 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  March 14, 2025  
Attn: Faisal D’Souza , NCO  
AI Action Plan  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Via email: 
Re: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
To Whom It May Concern : 
As representatives of the digital infrastructure ecosystem , members of the AI Infrastructure 
Coalition (AIC)  appreciate the opportunity to provide comments on the Request for 
Information (RFI) on the AI Action Plan  issued by the Networking and Information Technology 
Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO), N ational Science 
Foundation on  behalf of the White House Office of Science and Technology Poli cy (OSTP) on 
February 6, 2025. We understand that this RFI is intended to collect input for creating an AI 
Action Plan to advance America’s AI leadership as called for under Executive Order 14179 , 
“Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence” in order “to  establish a 
U.S. policy for sustaining and enhancing America’s AI dominance in order to promote human 
flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security.”  
Pursuant to the RFI and EO 14179, on behalf of the A rtificial Intelligence  Infrastructure 
Coalition  (AIC) , this submission provides recommendations regarding the need for robust 
and modernized infrastructure that can support AI, enable economic growth, and enhance 
the resilience of the U.S. digital infras tructure ecosy stem.  
The growth of artificial intelligence (AI) is a transformative force , shaping the economic, 
technological, and industrial landscape  in the U.S. Looking ahead, t here is an opportunity to 
foster the resurgence of American manufacturin g and cement the U.S. as the leader of th e 
digital  economy, but , there is a simultaneous need for additional focus on the infrastructur e 
needs that are critical to enabling the full deployment of AI technologies.  


Page 2 of 12 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  Unfortunately, the U.S.’ current electrical infrastructure is not  fit for purpose to drive our digital 
economy. Our grids and wires are outdated and not designed for the demands of the AI 
digital age.  The current state of  the country’s electricity grid —characterized by 
underinvestment , aging infrastructure , and lengthy time to permit and build new lines —poses 
a significant barrier to growing the U.S.’ digital economy and scaling AI deployment.   
Furthermore, many of the U.S.’ existing data centers are not optimized for accelerated  
computing capabilities  including  AI, high-performance computing (HPC) , and Quantum  
computing. ( Note : for the purpose s of th ese comments , all categories of accelerated 
computing are categorize d as “AI computing ”). AI computing requires more power and 
cooling than traditional computing.  
The comments we are providing focus on the need for robust and modernized infrastructure 
that can support AI, enable economic growth, and enhance the resilience of the U.S. digital 
infrastructure ecosystem. It is critical that the U.S. shore up its physical infrastructure both in 
terms of the electric grid and data centers’ power and cooling capabilities to enjoy the full 
benefits of AI’s applications and enable  the Trump Administration  to achieve its goal of 
“sustaining and enhancing AI’s dominance.”  
Defining America’s Digital Infrastructure Ecosystem  
AI computing  requires  energy -intensive technologies that depend on modernized electricity 
grids, specialized processors, fit for purpose cooling systems, and high -density  data centers. 
The undersigned signator y represent the digital infrastructure ecosystem in the U.S.  
The Artificial Intelligence  Infrastructure Coalition  (AIC) is a  coalition comprised of  members 
that span the  entire AI ecosystem  (i.e.,  AI platform providers, microchips, server hardware, 
data center equipment, software developers, data center operators , and power management 
services) that address the dynamic and changing needs of the digital infrastructure industry . 
At the heart of this ecosystem are AI chip manufacturers, which design specialized chips (e.g., 
graphical processing units (GPUs) and AI accelerators ), optimized for processing large AI 
workloads. Chips are integrated into servers by server original equipment manufacturers 
(OEMs), wh ich tailor their hardware to meet the performance demands of AI applications. 
Data center equipment providers off er additional infrastructure, such as networking 
components, high -performance storage, and cooling solutions, to ensure optimal 
performance. Equally vital are backup power and power management systems, which ensure 
uninterrupted operation during power fail ures or grid fluctuations, a critical factor in 
maintaining uptime for AI operations. Data center designers and operators play the role of 
architects, constructing and managing facilities that can house these power -intensive 
technologies, ensuring optimal layout, airflow, and energy efficiency . 


Page 3 of 12 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  AIC represent s key aspects  of the digital infrastructure ecosystem . All the various policies they 
promote are critical  to ensur ing the U.S. digital infrastructure  function s harmoniously to meet 
the growing needs of AI development and deployment.  
Data Centers  
Data centers are the foundation of the digital infrastructure on which our modern society and 
economy are built. Data centers are physical locations that organizations use to house their 
critical applications and data. Anything that takes place online “in the cloud” is powered by a 
data center.  Data centers aggregate our collective computing demands efficiently and 
securely in one location.  
Inside the data center are routers, switches, firewalls, storage systems, servers , and 
application -delivery controllers. The digital infrastructure is supported by power subsystems, 
uninterruptible power supplies, ventilation, cooling systems, backup generators, and network 
connections.1 The technologies  supporting data centers , and the power grids on which they 
rely, are dependent on a robust  supply  chain  of components . The acquisition process for  
transformers,  breakers, transmission lines, grid connections, etc. needs to be resilient and 
reliable  across a variable global market  to avoid capacity bottlenecks and service 
interruptions.   
The co mplex component and capacity needs of AI computing  have driven data centers to 
evolve far beyond traditional client -server models, pushing new paradigms in infrastructure 
design, resource allocation, power management, and operational strategy.  
The Electricity Grid  and Power Generation  
The growth of data centers in recent years to support the growing economy and AI has made 
clear the interdependence between digital infrastructure and the electricity grid. The growth 
of digital infrastructure, particularly AI, is impossible without corres ponding investments in 
the electric grid. However, after two decades of flat electricity demand, the U.S. grid is 
struggling to accommodate the resurgence of load growth driven by the expansion of data 
centers, the reshoring and resurgence of manufacturing , semiconductor fabrication, and 
transportation and building electrification.2 Grid planners are being caught off guard by the 
rapid increase in load growth, which is expected to nearly double over the next five years.3 
Infrastructure planning required little attention when the U.S. had no growth. However, that 
is no longer the case.  
1 “About the Data Center Industry .” Data Center Coalition . https://www.datacentercoalition.org/data -center -industry .  
2 Wilson, John D., and Zach Zimmerman. “The Era of Flat Power Demand is Over.” Grid Strategies , December 2023, p. 3. 
https://gridstrategiesllc.com/wp -content/uploads/2023/12/National -Load -Growth -Report -2023.pdf . 
3 Ibid. 


 
 
Page 4 of 12 
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  The U.S. digital infrastructure ecosystem faces multiple challenges, ranging from regulatory 
obstacles to grid limitations. However, the biggest challenge facing the U.S. digital 
infrastructure ecosystem is the strained electricity grid. The current electr icity grid, which was 
designed to serve the needs of an industrial economy, is ill -equipped to handle the demands 
of a digital economy powered by AI.  
 
Today, our strained electric grid infrastructure and our inability to expeditiously build new 
transmission and generation seems poised to undermine our ability to bring an American 
economic renaissance, one spurred by the digital economy and scaling AI developmen t, to 
bear. The U.S.’ existing electricity infrastructure is stymying the digital infrastructure 
ecosystem. The policies and permitting requirements that govern  the processes for 
upgrad ing our electricity infrastructure  and the processes  to bring new generation resources 
online are woefully inadequate and cumbersome to handle new growth reliably and cost -
effectively.   
 
Addressing the inadequacies of the U.S. electricity grid and working with  federal agencies 
and states through  Public Utility Commissions (PUC s) and energy offices  to support AI 
computing offers a unique opportunity to improve the grid for all customer classes . Such 
updates  will not only benefit technology companies and research institutions but will also 
have far -reaching positive impacts on manufacturing, commercial businesses, and residential 
customers.  
 
Global Competition: Ensuring that  AI Development  Remains in the U.S.  
 
The global economy is facing a changing paradigm . AI has become  a critical technology that 
will shape the future of global competitiveness, national security, and economic prosperity.  
This presents an opportunity for the U.S., home to many of the companies driving this 
transformation, to  take the  lead . And, t hrough EO 14179 , the Trump Administration has made 
clear its priority of “sustaining and enhancing America’s global AI dominance .” This was the 
impetus for President Trump’s January 23, 2025 announcement  of the Stargate project, a 
$500 billion private sector effort to build new AI data centers across the country.  
 
Put simply, t he U.S. is in a race to compete with our rivals, particularly China, on the 
development and deployment of AI and its corresponding electric infrastructure. We need a 
national  sense of  urgency to establish the electric infrastructure that can power the U.S.’ digital 
economy . While the U.S. struggles to meet the demand of new load growth , China continues 
to rapidly build  electricity generation capacity  and transmission  infrastructure  while 
develop ing its own AI capabilities. “Twenty years ago, Chinese energy consumption was a 
fraction of U.S. levels and not much higher than Germany. Today, China’s primary energy and 


 
 
Page 5 of 12 
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  power consumption are larger than the U.S. and Germany combined. ”4 For example, in 2022, 
China spent over $165 billion on its electricity grids while the U.S. spent less than $33 billion.5 
 
 
 
Reliable and affordable electricity is vital to drive the economic engine of AI and the U.S.’ 
growing digital economy. However, electric power regulation has become an obstacle rather 
than an enabler of efficient and reliable operation of the grid and its necessary modernization. 
There must be a faster and more coherent way of addressing permitting and multi -state 
infrastructure development to enable this economic engine  to grow and compete with our 
rivals, particularly China.  Specifically, to achieve the Administration’s goal of global AI 
dominance, the U.S. must ensure that this country is able to compete with foreign countries 
on the following four key factors that are  necessary for scaling AI development and leadership 
in the U.S.  
1. Accessibility of power : Many foreign countries or regions offer cheaper 
electricity rates and/or quicker access to power that could be more attractive to 
data center developers. As power consumption continues to increase, the cost 
of electricity becomes a significant factor in determining the feasibility of new 
data center sites.  
2. Government incentives : Many foreign markets offer substantial tax breaks, 
subsidies, and other incentives to attract data center investments. These 
incentives can significantly reduce capital expenditure and operational costs, 
making certain regions more appealing than the U.S., if equivalent support is 
not provided domestically.  
3. Permitting and regulatory barriers : In some foreign markets, permitting and 
regulatory hurdles are streamlined, allowing faster development of data centers. 
Lengthy permitting processes or restrictive regulations in the U.S. can slow down 
projects, making international locations with more business -friendly 
environments preferable for data center expansion.  
 
4 Cembalest, Michael. “ Electravision .” J.P Morgan 14th Annual Energy Paper, March 2024, p. 16. 
https://assets.jpmprivatebank.com/content/dam/jpm -pb-aem/global/en/documents/eotm/electravision.pdf . 
5 Ferris, Nick. "Weekly Data: Grid Investment in China More Than Every Other Country Combined."  Energy Monitor , March 15, 
2024.  https://www.energymonitor.ai/tech/networks -grids/weekly -data -grid -investment -in-china -more -than -every -other -country -combined/ . 


Page 6 of 12 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  4.Access to talent : Workforce availability is another critical factor. The shortage of
skilled professionals, such as network engineers and cybersecurity experts, can
drive companies to seek out markets where there is a more readily available
talent pool to meet their needs .
Deploying AI to Improve the Grid  
AI has the potential to dramatically change how the U.S. manages its electricity grid. By 
leveraging AI for grid optimization, utilities can improve the efficiency of electricity generation 
and distribution, reduce outages, and better integrate renewable energy sources.6 For 
example, AI can play a vital role in grid operation and optimization by helping network 
operators understand grid conditions in real time, make more informed decisions, and 
forecast potential grid disruptions.7 AI systems can draw huge amounts of data from a range 
of sources to aid in planning (e.g., which grid equipment to put in which locations), identifying 
grid infrastructure that needs to be reinforced to deal with extreme weather, monitoring grid 
performanc e to improve system efficiency and stability, and providing real -time assessments 
of the maximum amount of power that transmission lines can carry (i.e., dynamic line rating).8 
AI can support enhanced grid maintenance by facilitating remote inspections of 
infrastructure, identifying operating parameters that will extend equipment lifetimes, and 
pinpointing early data trends to predict future failures and arrange for preventive 
maintenance of equipment.9 AI can also greatly enhance overall electricity usage and capacity 
of the grid through support ing the development of “virtual power plants” that can provide 
grid services and demand response.10
Relatedly, building operators are deploying AI -driven power management systems to 
optimize energy distribution, monitor workloads, and adjust cooling in real time. This dynamic 
management can reduce energy consumption by precisely matching energy usage to current 
computational needs.11 The Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) recently launched its 
DCFlex Initiative, which includes both data center companies and utilities, and is exploring 
6 See  U.S. Department of Energy, AI for Energy: Opportunities for a Modern Grid and Clean Energy Economy, April 2024, 
https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2024 -04/AI%20EO%20Report%20Section%205.2g%28i%29_043024.pdf ; see also  Rozite, Vida, Jack 
Miller, and Sungjin Oh, “Why AI and Energy Are the New Power Couple – Analysis,” International Energy Agency, November 2, 2023, 
https://www.iea.org/commentaries/why -ai-and -energy -are-the-new -power -couple ; Dannouni, Amane, et al., Accelerating Climate Action with AI, 
November 2023, https://web -assets.bcg.com/72/cf/b609ac3d4ac6829bae6fa88b8329/bcg -accelerating -climate -action -with -ai-nov -2023 -rev.pdf .  
7 Kim, June. “Four Ways AI Is Making the Power Grid Faster and More Resilient.” MIT Technology Review , November 22, 2023. 
https://www.technologyreview.com/2023/11/22/1083792/%20ai -power -grid -improvement/ . 
8 Sandalow, David, et al. "Artificial Intelligence for Climate Change Mitigation."  Innovation for Cool Earth Forum , December 2023, p. 
39. https://www.icef.go.jp/wp -content/uploads/2024/02/AI -Climate -Roadmap -ICEF -Dec -1-2023.pdf . 
9 World Economic Forum. “Harnessing Artificial Intelligence to Accelerate the Energy Transition.” September 2021, p. 10 -11. 
https://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_Harnessing_AI_to_accelerate_the_Energy_Transition_2021.pdf ; Renshaw, Jeremy. "The Role of Artificial 
Intelligence in Powering America's Energy Future." Statement before the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on Energy, 
Climate, and Grid Security , 118th Cong., October 19, 2023, p. 
5. https://d1dth6e84htgma.cloudfront.net/10_19_23_ENG_Testimony_Renshaw_931baf42d5.pdf ; Kim, “Four Ways AI Is Making the Power Grid 
Faster.”  
10 Downing, Jennifer, et al. "Pathways to Commercial Liftoff: Virtual Power Plants." U.S Department of Energy , September 2023, Appendix VII. 
Potential Grid Services. https://liftoff.energy.gov/wp -content/uploads/2023/10/LIFTOFF_DOE_VVP_10062023_v4.pdf . 
11 See  Intel. “Power Management – Leveraging AI for Smarter Data Center Power Efficiency Solution Brief.” Intel Network Builders , September 2022. 
https://networkbuilders.intel.com/docs/networkbuilders/power -management -leveraging -ai-for-smarter -data -center -power -efficiency -solution -
brief -1664790296.pdf ; Dafinger, Klaus. “Meeting Data Center Cooling Demands in the AI Era.” Data Center Dynamics , July 10, 2024. 
https://www.datacenterdynamics.com/en/opinions/meeting -data -center -cooling -demands -in-the-ai-era/ .


 
 
Page 7 of 12 
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  innovative strategies to help enable operational and deployment flexibility, streamline grid 
integration, and transition backup power solutions to grid assets.12 
With respect to renewable power generation, AI can help with siting and sizing large solar 
and wind projects, maximizing production, and predicting and scheduling maintenance to 
minimize failures. AI can also improve predictions of supply and demand.13 As more digitized , 
distributed energy resources are added to the grid, AI will play an important role in managing 
energy demand and distributed resources for better integration  and enhance d grid 
reliability.14 
 
Recommendations for the AI Action Plan to  Improve the Digital Infrastructure 
Ecosystem in the U.S.  
 
Representatives across the digital infrastructure ecosystem stand ready to work with 
policymakers, utilities, and other stakeholders to ensure that we can provide the necessary 
infrastructure to power America’s growing digital economy. Below  are recommendations to 
include in the AI Action Plan:  
 
1. Modernizing the Grid  
• We recommend the AI Action Plan adopt policies to enable the U.S. infrastructure 
improvements required to support AI computing. The plan needs to address not only 
adding  more power but also making the grid more efficient, resilient, and capable of 
supporting a range of modern technologies. Grid resilience improvements would 
protect manufacturing plants and homes from blackouts and extreme weather 
disruptions, benefiting e very customer class. Below  are specific recommendations for 
modernizing the grid.  
i. Develop permitting reforms : The U.S. faces a significant challenge with its 
strained electricity grid infrastructure and the slow pace of building new 
transmission and generation  capacity . Electric power regulation has become an 
obstacle, rather than an enabler of efficient and reliable grid modernization. A 
faster, more streamlined approach to permitting and multi -state infrastructure 
development is needed to drive economic growth and compete globally, 
particularly with China. There is broad, bipartisan agreement that unrestricted 
judicial review delays energy projects and related infrastructure. We 
recommend that the AI Action Plan propose permitting reforms to ensure 
greater certainty fo r energy projects while maintaining crucial environmental 
and community protections that help grow community support for data centers 
in the localities where they reside . 
ii. Explore additional interconnection reforms : In July 2023, the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission ( FERC ) issued a unanimous, bipartisan decision, Order 
 
12 Electric Power Research Institute. "DCFlex : Optimize Data Center Operational Flexibility to Help Strengthen the Grid." EPRI, 2025. 
https://publicdownload.epri.com/PublicAttachmentDownload.svc/AttachmentId=90809.  
13 Lu, W., J. Wang, X. Chen, and Y. He. "A Data -Driven Method for Predicting Failures in Solar Panels and Wind Turbines." IEEE Transactions on 
Sustainable Energy  9, no. 2 (2018): 734 -743. 
14 IRENA.  Artificial Intelligence and Big Data for Energy Systems . Abu Dhabi: International Renewable Energy Agency, 2022, p. 9 -10, 
https://www.irena.org/publications/2019/Sep/Artificial -Intelligence -and -Big-Data .. 


Page 8 of 12 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  2023, to improve generator interconnection processes.15 The key reform is a 
requirement for grid operators to adopt a cluster -study approach, allowing 
interconnection requests to be reviewed in groups rather than individually. 
Order 2023 also includes secondary reforms, such as improved transparency of 
the tran smission system. While these changes are beneficial, they will not 
significantly alter the current challenges with interconnection.16  The AI Action 
Plan should include a consultation with stakeholders to determine what 
additional interconnection reforms could help to unlock incentivizing utilities to 
add new generation capacity.   
iii.Ensure robust implementation of tr ansmission reforms : Consumers benefit when
independent economic planning replaces inefficient utility planning. As revised,
FERC Order 1920 -A promotes planning over an appropriate time horizon,
requires scenario analysis to mitigate risk, and uses higher -quality cost -benefit
analysis, which was intended to address the negative repercussions of reactive,
piecemeal approaches.17 We recommend that the AI Action Plan study how
proper implementation of Order 1920 , coupled with a strong state role in
scenario development, cost allocation, and benefit considerations , could help
speed approvals for new essential cost -effective electric infrastructure to
support growing demand growth.
iv.Ensure co -location of new supply and new load remains an option : The issue of
co-locating large loads at power plants highlights the need for wholesale rules
that minimize system costs and allocates them based on customers' benefit.
Recently, FERC  voted unanimously  to launch a review of issues associated with
the co -location of large loads such as AI -enabled data centers at generating
facilities in the PJM Interconnection . When done correctly, all customer classes
can benefit. Policymakers and regulators should ensure that wholesale tariffs
reflect cost based on customer’s benefits. For example, the Administration
should encourage FERC to finalize how network costs are recovered to ensure
fairness and create opportunities for its customers  to avoid future investments,
beyond just meeting utility revenue requirements.18
v.Incentivi ze Data Centers to Select Locations with Available Capacity : We
recommend the AI Action Plan explore opportunities to reform electricity
market designs to incent demand side innovation  by reward ing placing demand
where the electric grid has available capacity . For example, high wind -
producing areas19 often have surpluses of local, air pollution -free generation
15 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. “Order No. 2023: Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procedures and Agreements.” July 28, 
2023. https://www.ferc.gov/media/order -no-2023 . 
16 Hartman , Devin and Beth  Garza, “Finishing Generator Interconnection Reform.”   R Street, March 3, 2023. 
https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/finishing -generator -interconnection -reform/  
17 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. “Order No. 1920: Building for the Future through Electric Regional Transmission Plannin g and Cost 
Allocation.” May 13, 2024. https://www.ferc.gov/media/e1 -rm21 -17-000 .  
18 Electricity Customer Alliance, et al., “Re: Large Loads Co -located at Generating Facilities,” Docket No. AD24 -11-000 , submitted via eFiling to the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, October 30, 2024. https://elibrary.ferc.gov/eLibrary/filelist?accession_number=20241030 -
5112&optimized=false .  
19 Burgum, Doug. “One of World’s Largest Data Centers to Locate in Williston Area as Industry Targets Growth in ND.” North Dakota Office of the 
Governor , January 26, 2022. https://www.governor.nd.gov/news/burgum -one -worlds -largest -data -centers -locate -williston -area -industry -targets -
growth -nd. 


Page 9 of 12 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  that attract data center development . These practices reduce infrastructure 
strain and offer clean  per-unit emissions from data center expansion . This is why 
large consumers, including data centers, are advocating for reforms20 to provide 
direct market access in  regions  with excess available capacity .21  
vi.Scaling new Collaborative Ta riff Structures : The AI Action Plan should include
plans for encouraging public utility commissions (PUCs) to implement scaled
tariff structures . Utilities and large load customers, such as data center
operators, are collaborating to develop new tariff structures that support the
deployment of advanced nuclear energy, long -duration energy storage, and
other technologies. This collaboration highlights the innovation possible
through joint planning between utilities and customers . The federal government
should explore ways to facilitate this type of collaboration and s cale utility tariff
structures that promote new business models and innovation, speci fically
focusing on ensuring consistency across regions .22
vii.Facilitate State Economic and Electricity Planning Processes : The AI Action Plan
should promote state and PUC economic development coordination .
Establishing  realistic load forecasts and clear policies that protect customers is
crucial for utilities to meet their service obligations . As electric load growth
accelerates across parts of the country , states and PUC commissioners should
ensure each state PUC has transparent and non -discriminatory policies in place
to respond to continued unforeseen changes in economic growth,
demonstrated via electric demand .
viii.Eliminate Barriers to Optimizing Existing Transmission Infrastructure : The AI
Action Plan  should prioritiz e grid enhancing technologies (GETs) to optimize the
existing transmission system . Despite  growing awareness of opportunities to
incentivize market -driven technologies that optimize the existing transmission
system, barriers persist in both cost -of-service and non -cost -of-service states .
Additional processes should be established to improve visibility and promote
technologies, such as GETs, that reduce transmission grid congestion . For
example, California Governor Gavin Newsom recently signed SB 1006, which
requires utilities to evaluate GETs, such as dynamic line ratings, advanced power
flow co ntrol devices, and topology optimization, at least every two years as part
of transmission planning .23
ix.Establish Leadership on Proactive Transmission Planning : The AI Action Plan
should include collaboration with states to promote the e stablish ment of  more
robust transmission planning processes . FERC's Order 1920 -A aims to enhance
transmission planning practices and, when properly implemented, will improve
20 Villarreal, Chris. “Comments of the R Street Institute Before the Iowa Utilities Board on Policy Charrette #2.” R Street Institute , October 4, 2023. 
https://www.rstreet.org/outreach/comments -of-the-r-street -institute -before -the-iowa -utilities -board -on-policy -charrette -2/. 
21 Hartman, Devin. “Commercial & Industrial Consumer Market Access.” R Street Institute , June 12, 2024. https://www.rstreet.org/wp -
content/uploads/2024/07/Hartman -ESIG -June -2024 -CI-Market -Access.pdf . 
22 Yahoo Finance. "Duke Energy Responding to Growing Demand with Solar and Energy Storage Projects." October 17, 2023. 
https://finance.yahoo.com/news/responding -growing -demand -duke -energy -150000676.html . 
23 Switchgear Magazine. "California Governor Signs Bill Requiring Utilities to Consider Grid -Enhancing Technologies." October 11, 2023. 
https://switchgear -magazine.com/tm -news/business/california -governor -signs -bill-requiring -utilities -to-consider -grid -enhancing -technologies/ . 


 
 
Page 10 of 12 
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  processes without Regional Transmission Organizations  as well.24 Consistent 
implementation will be crucial to ensure that customers benefit  from improved 
transmission . Additional reforms will also be necessary to incorporate 
interregional transmission planning processes that support the cost -effective 
development of long -range, high -voltage transmission.25 
x. Unleash Demand -side Innovation : The AI Action Plan should include a proposal 
to work with states to  enable demand -side innovations . As new loads seek to 
implement their own power solutions to support excess generation capacity, 
states must establish processes that promote demand flexibility, on -site 
generation development, and incentives to locate demand where it places the 
least burden on existing infrastructure. Responding to growing energy volatility 
will require decisive action not only to secure and maintain ample energy supply 
but also to leverage innovative technologies to measure, forecast, and optimize 
energy demand. A comprehensive energy strategy will res pond to both supply -
side and demand -side contributions to energy volatility. As of 2020, more than 
60% of energy used for electricity generation in the U.S. was lost during 
conversion.26 To foster demand -side solutions, state economic development 
agencies should play a larger role in understanding electric infrastructure needs 
and challenges. Additionally, stakeholders must be involved in the planning 
process with greater transparency and a new level of collaboration.   The data 
center and AI boom represents a bold opportunity to leverage a key segment 
of America’s economic engine to stabilize and power the grid. By making the 
most of our new and existing energy resources – including via growing markets 
and segments (inclusive of data centers, re -shored manufacturing, etc.) – the 
Administration can power America’s energy independence and ensure America 
leads the world in energy affordability, innovation, and reliability.  
 
2. Research and Development : 
• We recommend that the AI Action Plan create a special program in one or more of the 
DOE ’s National Lab oratories (National Lab) or establish a collaboration with a 
laboratory at an existing university to evaluate compute resource allocation strategies 
for large -scale foundation -model training and/or other AI use cases. This program 
should focus on public -private collaboration, with DOE playing role in co -designing AI 
solutions that address public sector needs, including me eting power and energy 
demands sustainably. Such a program should be designed to ensure that, while the 
private sector is focused on commercialization, DOE prioritizes AI applications directed 
towards societal benefits. Some of the  critical  topics for AI computing that we 
recommend  be included in  such a  research program are:  
i. Small  AI model development  and efficient software design.  
 
24 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. “Order No. 1920: Building for the Future through Electric Regional Transmission Plannin g and Cost 
Allocation.” May 13, 2024 . https://www.ferc.gov/media/e1 -rm21 -17-000 .  
25 Hartman, Devin, and Kent Chandler. "Eliminating the Discord Over FERC Order 1920: What Role for States?" R Street Institute , July 2, 2024. 
https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/eliminating -the-discord -over -ferc -order -1920 -what -role -for-states/ .  
26 U.S. Energy Information Administration. "Global Crude Oil Demand Is Expected to Increase in 2021 after Falling in 2020." Toda y in Energy, 2025. 
https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=44436.  


Page 11 of 12 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  ii.Compilation of current cooling systems capable of managing thermal densities
of 1500 kw+ rack densit ies.
iii.A compilation  and assessment of current research on r eliability and
compatibility with electronics equipment of various liquid cooling fluids.
iv.Feasibility  of heat reuse in data centers in the U.S.
3.Create a Working Group to Identify and Address  Challenges Confronting the Data Center
Industry:
•We recommend that the AI Action Plan establish a working group  with i ndustry and
other stakeholder groups  to identify and address challenges  confronting the data
center industry. The working group should meet quarterly and  contain
representatives from across the digital infrastructure ecosystem, includ ing power
providers, data center developers, grid operators, and federal and state policymakers
to identify and address policy hurdles to design ing energy -efficient, resilient
infrastructure that supports the growth of AI while minimizing resource use and
enhancing reliable operations .
4.Create a Dedicated  AI “Policy Home ” within the Executive Branch :
•While federal agencies, including the Department of Energy, the General Services
Administration, and the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy,  have
taken a range of actions related to AI, there is currently no coordinated federal
approach to data center efficiency and use.  As the demand for data centers continues
to grow, it is crucial to prioritize efficient and sustainable operations.
5.Create AI Development Zones:
•We recommend that the AI Action Plan include plans for developing  a comprehensive
map of areas across the U.S. that could support future data center development. These
areas could be designated as AI Development Zones, where permitting and siting
restrictions are eased to facilitate the construction of large -scale data centers and
localized power generation. These zones would provide long -term economic
development opportunities in regions that house them. It is important to ensure that
AI Development Zones include  the following features:
i.Ability to develop redundant fiber paths and support right -of-way access for
further development, if needed.
ii.Availability of highly reliable, affordable electricity .
iii.A strong, shovel ready site, access to construction labor, and reasonable
construction costs.
iv.Proximity to technical engineering talent and local universities.
v.Clear and efficient state and local approval processes necessary for
development, construction, and operations.
vi.Favorable local and state tax and fiscal policies  plus a welcoming local
community with a business -friendly climate and strong partnerships.


Page 12 of 12 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  Conclusion  
The U.S. stands at a crossroads. While AI development is crucial, the infrastructure supporting 
it—particularly electricity grids and data center systems —must not be overlooked. As AI 
computing  continue s to drive economic growth and innovation, the country must also invest 
in the infrastructure needed to support these advancements. As it stands, t he rapid growth of 
AI computing has brought the inadequacy of the U.S. electricity infrastructure into sharp 
focus . AI holds tremendous potential for improving productivit y, optimizing energy use, and 
transforming industries, however, its success will depend on the strength and resilience of the 
U.S. electricity grid  and the ability of our data centers to provide adequate power and cooling 
for AI computing.  
Without significant investment in grid modernization, the U.S. risks falling behind in the global 
race for AI leadership. Policymakers must act urgently to address the challenges facing the 
U.S. digital infrastructure ecosystem, including aging electricity infrastructure, regulatory 
obstacles, and growing energy dema nds. By prioritizing investments in transmission, 
distribution, and generation , the U.S. can ensure that it remains at the forefront of AI 
development and that the benefits of this technological revolution are felt across all sectors 
of the economy.  
Now is the time for serious conversations among all policymakers across the federal 
government – including  the White House, the DOE , the Department of Commerce, FERC , and 
Congress – about how to speed up the pace to build electricity infrastructure and systems that 
will power the digital and new AI economy for years to come.  The AIC  is happy to coordinate 
industry stakeholders to inform the discussion.  
Respectfully submitted,  
AI Infrastructure Coalition  


