PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2klf-3lo4
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8387
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Monica Spisar
Em ail:  
General Comment
With regard to Am erica's am bitions with respect to the developm ent of artificial intelligence technologies, it m ust be stated plainly in
relation to training large language m odels (LLMs): Creators of works of literature, non-fiction texts, poetry, science, m athem atics, video
gam es, art, digital art, theater, film , m usic, and all other hum an-created works deserve fair com pensation for their work.
If this fundam ental expectation is broken, a risk exists that significant num bers of people will lose confidence in the potential for work to be
an avenue to earn a living in the United States. That would change the very nature of what it m eans to be self-sufficient as an Am erican.
Presently, it appears that LLMs are being trained on m aterials for which the creators have not been and, it appears to be proposed, will
never be, appropriately com pensated. This, quite obviously, constitutes theft of their work.
In the United States, life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness have all long been entwined with individual effort in the form  of one's work.
As a non-socialist and non-com m unist country, the fruits of one's labor have been protected by the very ideas that underpin the Am erican
Dream .
The prom ise of artificial intelligence and the race to excel with tools backed by AI are both real. In the truest spirit of what it m eans to be
the United States of Am erica, technological advances and business excellence are adm irable goals deserving great effort. However, they
have never before required the broad theft or uncom pensated appropriation of others' creative work.
These technical advances are defining challenges, worthy of best efforts which reveal true Am erican ingenuity and exceptionality. This is an
opportunity to show the world that Am erica is, truly and at its core, the great nation it claim s to be. Cheating, stealing, and harm ing others'
livelihoods on the way to success is as un-Am erican as can be.
Technologists and great business people supporting the United States' efforts on these axes can succeed on their own m erits, without
cheating or stealing. It is insulting to those technologists and business people to suggest otherwise, just as it it insulting to those who
produced prior creative works to force them  to accept those will be appropriated by others.
Ultim ately, it is un-Am erican to suggest that m any Am ericans m ust be robbed in order for Am erica's AI technologists to succeed. This is
not the way Am erica led the world for decades, even centuries. Starting now would do no less than to dissolve the Am erican dream .
You will have heard from  som e on the AI com m unity that AGI is on our doorstep and that it is im perative to be first in the race to the
'best' AI or the first AGI. It is all speculative, regardless of what advances have been m ade as larger and larger com pute and data centers
have been put to work on training new m odels. Recently, advances in sm all m odels have dem onstrated that m odel size m ay not be a
deciding factor in the overall AI race: keep in m ind that there is no reason to believe in the winner-takes-all m odel, and that adoption is,
ultim ately, what will determ ine the winners. Adoption of sm aller m odels with m odest com prom ises on perform ance has m ore precedent in
term s of likely path to 'winning.'
In term s of risk of a foreign nation getting ahead in the AI race: the adoption of technology involves m any considerations. Top science
labs, universities, and tech com panies will catch up, if necessary. Those institutions and organizations won't trust AI from  an unfriendly
nation; nor will they sit back and declare them selves losers. Com petition used to be welcom ed by technologists, and will be again if they
are not robbed of the opportunity by being encouraged to cheat! Their ingenuity will go into overdrive to succeed. Truly, insisting that any


form  of cheating is required robs them  of the opportunity to achieve greatness.
Ultim ately, the inspiration to excel cannot com e at the cost of widespread harm  to others. That is not the Am erican way and would be a
disservice to both groups of Am ericans.


