PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-3wev-t72o
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9586
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Organization:  AI & Dem ocracy Foundation
General Comment
In this subm ission we propose that the adm inistration m ake dem ocratic AI a key pillar of the AI action plan, and provide context on
practical steps the adm inistration can take to support this goal. Dem ocratic AI can enshrine the principles and freedom s that Am erica
stands for into the developm ent and deploym ent of AI system s.
We propose that the AI actions plan prioritizes:
- Rapid funding of research and pilots in dem ocratic AI, e.g., via the NSF, DARPA, and ARPA-E.
- Use of governm ent procurem ent power to incentivize the developm ent of a high-quality m arket for dem ocratic AI.
Attachments
AI Dem ocracy Foundation AI Action Plan Priorities


Response to OSTP RFI on ‘The Development of an 
Artiﬁcial Intelligence Action Plan’ 
AI & Democracy Foundation 
March 15, 2025 
The AI & Democracy Foundation  (AIDF) welcomes this opportunity to contribute to OSTP’s 
eﬀorts to set priority policy actions on AI. Many other submissions are focused on ensuring that 
America maintains and increases its leadership position in AI, so we will not seek to replicate 
that here. 
Instead, we focus here on what America should do with that leadership, in ways that embed the 
principles of freedom, liberty, and democracy into the AI systems that will be developed.  
In this submission we propose that the administration make democratic AI a key pillar of the AI 
action plan, and provide context on practical steps the administration can take to support this 
goal. Democratic AI can enshrine the principles and freedoms that America stands for into the 
development and deployment of AI systems. 
We propose that the AI actions plan prioritizes: 1.Rapid funding of research and pilots in democratic AI, e.g., via the NSF, DARPA, and
ARPA-E.
2.Use of government procurement power to incentivize the development of a
high-quality market for democratic AI.
What is Democratic AI? 
Democratic AI refers to the use of democratic mechanisms for decision-making about and by 
AI systems. It relies on democratic infrastructure as shown in the diagram below. Most critical 
is that decisions about what AI systems do in the world are under some form of democratic 
control. 


 
Why Democratic AI? 
The simple answer is that democratic AI is necessary if we want the American values of 
bottom-up freedom, liberty, and democracy to be maintained in the age of AI. As more 
decision-making moves from humans to AI, this keeps humans in the loop. 
 
As an example, consider how Community Notes on X provides critical infrastructure for 
collective sense-making, truth-seeking, and decision-making—while reducing political bias. It 
weaves American values into the fabric of social media. Just as Community Notes provides a 
bottom-up mechanism for collective decision-making around social media, new democratic AI 
mechanisms can provide that for a wide variety of decisions that need to be made around AI. 
We need to massively increase our investment in similar democratic systems as AI becomes far 
more pervasive across society.  
What does Democratic AI mean in practice? 
Democratic AI implementations can take many forms. For decisions where relatively little 
context is needed, approaches like Community Notes can work; for example, Anthropic  piloted 
the use of a very simple process using a similar algorithm to develop an AI Constitution.1 If more context is needed, there is increasing precedent for deliberative processes in which 
representative groups of citizens are brought together to make recommendations or decisions 
(supported by facilitation scaﬀolding optimized for sense-making and truth-seeking). Such 
1 
https://www.anthropic.com/news/collective-constitutional-ai-aligning-a-language-model-with-public-inp
ut 


approaches are already being explored by leading AI organizations such as Meta2 and OpenAI3. 
Such processes have also now been tested in extremely challenging contexts4. 
Recommendations 
3. Rapid funding of research and pilots in democratic AI, e.g., via the NSF, DARPA, and 
ARPA-E. 
4. Use government procurement power to incentivize the development of a high-quality 
market for democratic AI. 
 
To ensure a future of American democratic AI, we recommend that the federal government 
include the following as priorities in the AI action plan: 
 
1. Rapidly funding research and pilots in democratic AI, e.g., via the NSF, DARPA, and 
ARPA-E. 
○ Task grant-making agencies to prioritize rapid funding for research and 
development that improves the eﬀectiveness, scalability, and quality of 
democratic AI, to ensure that our democratic AI mechanisms can keep pace 
with other AI advances. 
○ This should include funding for large-scale pilots of AI-augmented deliberation 
tools and techniques. 
2. Using government procurement power to incentivize the development of a 
high-quality market for democratic AI. 
○ Task the O ﬃce of Management and Budget to encourage federal agencies to 
prioritize procurement of democratic AI systems in order to prime the market. AI 
providers will innovate to respond, and the burgeoning market for democratic AI 
infrastructure can grow more rapidly.  
○ A further bene ﬁt is that it will bring greater direct democratic governance by the 
American people into federal agencies, helping to ensure that they e ﬀectively 
meet the needs of Americans. 
 
To support these core pillars, we expect that NIST will need to develop or adopt rapidly 
evolving standards. 
 
4 Konya, Andrew, Luke Thorburn, Wasim Almasri, Oded Adomi Leshem, Ariel D. Procaccia, Lisa Schirch, 
and Michiel A. Bakker. "Using Collective Dialogues and AI to Find Common Ground Between Israeli and 
Palestinian Peacebuilders." arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.01769 (2025). 3 https://openai.com/index/democratic-inputs-to-ai-grant-program-update/ 2 https://about.fb.com/news/2023/06/generative-ai-community-forum/ 


Appendix 
To support the further development of such approaches, AIDF developed the Democracy 
Levels Framework, which draws inspiration from the levels of autonomy for self-driving 
vehicles5 created by SAE International. A simpli ﬁed version of the Democracy Levels 
Framework is included below. As the levels increase, there is a greater transfer of 
decision-making power to the democratic AI process (i.e., to a representative group of 
American citizens). 
 
Level Role of democratic AI 
0 None 
1 Informs decision-making 
2 Fully speciﬁ es a decision 
3 Binding  decisions 
4 Automatically initiated  given triggers. 
5 Constitutional order (where processes can themselves be updated) 
 
AIDF and its collaborators have published an early version of the Democracy Levels Framework 
and are currently developing a revised version which includes tools for deciding which level is 
most appropriate, and for assessing the quality of how well a democratic process is (or could 
be) implemented. We would be happy to discuss these. 
 
5 https://www.sae.org/standards/content/j3016_202104/ 


