PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-x02d-7wre
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4147
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Justin Morris  
General Comment
I am  an artist, writer, and translator. My creative output and the copyrights to it that I own are fundam ental to m y ability to continue living.
My business and those of others in m y fields have already been adversely affected by AI com panies' unethical and illegal use of copyright-
protected intellectual property for the training of m odels whose explicit purpose is to replace hum an workers such as m yself. AI absolutely
cannot be given carte blanche to steal the work of hum an creators and violate the sanctity of their copyright protections based on the
flim sy justification that the AI com panies' business m odels cannot succeed without such widespread theft and violation.
We suffer no other industry to violate our rights in this way due to the financial burdens of their businesses, AI can be no exception. If their
m odel cannot succeed without theft and the abrogation of creators' rights to protect their work, then the only correct outcom e m ust be
that the AI businesses fail. We exist in a capitalist system  where m arket pressures dictate who succeeds and who fails. AI businesses have
done nothing to deserve exception from  this, and the harm  that they have already caused–to say nothing of the further harm  that a
regulatory carveout sanctioning their intellectual property theft would do–has been palpably felt in m y com m unity.
Hold AI businesses to the sam e standard as all other individuals and businesses are held. Do not give them  unfettered access to publicly
posted creative works norm ally subject to copyright protections. Let them  bear the sam e burden to ethically and legally support their
business that all other Am ericans do. Basic fairness and the sanctity of the rule of law dem ands no less.


