PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-nw6i-f60a
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2567
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Dennis Nguyen
General Comment
The use of AI has not been in benefit of a dem ocratic republic. It's in use of a totalitarian governm ent that wishes to oppress its people of
free thinking and expression. It puts power into the hands of a tiny island of people who does not consider those that holds it up. As of
now, we are seeing ripples of the detrim ent AI is causing as the people are too reliant on a tool that errs and provides m isinform ation that
has resulted in fatal errors; to both the com m on individual and those that hold econom ic powers.
The individuals who propose AI as an econom ic tool do not provide real tangible worth, only theoretical solutions to problem s that they
create. AI has not been shown as profitable or as efficient as previously proposed.
AI now takes data, regardless of accuracy, and spits out a jum bled m ess of m isinform ation. Much like a child skim m ing through a book
and throwing random  unrelated out of context details thinking it would provide a satisfactory answer.
AI has also been used to com m it intellectual property theft.
Scattered across YouTube, Google Im ages, Am azon, and other sites where individuals can view and/or purchase m edia (books, videos,
m usic, etc), there are AI creations using intellectual property of artists works and used as their own without proper com pensation. Users
train the data on works without perm ission from  the owners and its put onto m arket. Often resulting in poorly m ade products m ade for
cheap. It's anti-consum er tool.
AI as of now is a detrim ent to society and capitalism . It takes m oney out of the hands of the people and spits out junk that the m asses are
expected to pay for in m oney and blood.


