PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-13yy-r2uh
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7453
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
March 14


March 14, 2025
From:
Jasso n Larsen
Freelance Artist
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request fo r Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI ) Action Plan
I am an everyday Americ an who ow ns a small visual design busine ss whic h serves client s in the 
entertainment industr y. I have worked hard for year s to develo p the skills and knowledge to 
build my bu siness, and have been lucky eno ugh to make a decent liv ing and support my family – 
until recentl y.
The AI systems mad e by B ig Tech companies lik e OpenAI (Microsoft) and Goog le th reaten to 
destroy thousands of American sma ll businesses lik e mine with their recent demand t o create 
specia l carv e outs in copyright la w.
AI system s can only be produced by first tr aining on w ork made by people. My unique wor k, and 
the wor k of hundreds of tho usands of other everyday Americ an creator s was taken and fed into 
these AI systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest our wor k, reassemble 
it, and then sell it bac k to our client s – directly competing wit h us a nd c utting us out of the 
marketplace.
Now t hese B ig Tec h companie s are asking this administratio n to create exceptions and 
loophole s to make this practice of stealing Am erican creator s’ copyrighte d work legal 
precedent. They are suggesting that if a m achine ingest s and r eproduce s copyrighted w ork, it is 
somehow suddenly “fair use ”. 


They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to 
rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to protect 
the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be 
stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a 
new innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to 
have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? 
How will we possibly make a living doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday 
Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the
incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic
value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not
just Big Tech.


Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies,
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what
content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard 
work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright 
law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


