PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-c3t0-d6o2
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1508
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  Coalition for Content Provenance and Authenticity
General Comment
Good day. Thank you for the opportunity to respond to the Office of Science and Technology Policy’s (OSTP) request for input on the
Adm inistration’s developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan. On behalf of the Coalition for Content Provenance and Authenticity
(C2PA), please find the attached subm ission. Should you have any questions, please be in touch at the contact inform ation listed below.
Thank you.
Attachments
C2PA AI Action Plan RFI Response_Final
-

This document is approvedforpublic disseminati on. The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential 
information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the Al Actio17 Plan and associated 
documents without attribution. 
548 Market St 
PMB 57274 
San Francisco, California 94104 
Friday, March 14, 2025 
VIA ELECTRONIC FJLJNG 
AI Action Plan 
Attn: Faisal D1Souza, NCO 
415 Eisenhower A venue 
Alexandria , VA 22314 
Dear Mr. D'Souza 
The Coalition for Content Provenance and Authenticity (C2PA) appreciates the opportunity to 
respond to the Office of Science and Technology Policy's (OSTP) request for input on the 
Administration 's development of an Artificial Intelligenc e (AI) Action Plan ("Plan"). 
With the digital transformation of information sharing, the ability to establish the provenance (or 
source and history) of images, audio, video, and documents is critical. Today's capabilities­
powered by AI and machine learning-have dramatically increased the ease, speed, and quality 
of alterations . Bad actors may exploit manipulated or entirely fabricated media to carry out cyber 
threats, commit crimes, exfiltrate sensitive economic data and intellectua l property or undermine 
our national security. The Coalition for Content Provenance and Authenticity (C2PA), an open 
standards organization created by members of the Content Authenticity Initiative (CA[), Project 
Origin, and others through the Joint Development Foundation under the Linux Foundation, is 
collectively building an open technical standard to provide provenance and attribution for all 
forms of digital media to combat these, and many other, types of challenges. 
The C2P A open technical standard can serve as a critical pillar in the Administration 1 s efforts to 
enhance America's global Al dominance , promote human flourishing, economic 
competitiveness, and strengthen our national security. To that end, we offer the following 
background on the C2PA and Content Credentials, suggest possible use cases for the standard 
that are currently unexplored, including in the government, and provide several concrete actions 
the Administration should consider. Lastly, we provide examples of how private industry is 
leveraging th is technology. 

This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential 
information , Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the Al Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution . 
The C2PA -Building an Industry-led Global Standard 
The C2PA is an industry-led, cross-sector coalition of technology companies and medja 
organizations that are developing an open technical standard for disclosing and verifying the 
origin and/or history of digital content. Established in 2021, the C2PA has over two hundred 
members, and is guided by a steering committee consisting of Adobe, Amazon, BBC, Google, 
Intel, Meta, Microsoft, OpenAI, Publicis Groupe, Sony and Tmepic. The C2PA open 
specification. outlines how to establish digital content provenance using a technology called 
Content Credentials. Covering both technical details and normatlve guidelines , the standard aims 
to facilitate worldwide, opt-in adoption of digital provenance methods by cultivating a robust 
ecosystem of applications that support digital provenance for a diverse range of users and 
organizations while ensuring necessary security measures are met. Because the C2PA standard is 
openly available, anyone-including governments and their service providers-can use this 
standard to incorporate digital provenance information into their products and processes. 
The C2PA standard is regularly updated based on new technologies, feedback from the 
community , and its needs, and is currently on version 2.1. The C2PA is currently fast-tracking its 
standard to become an Internationa l Standards Organization (ISO) standard. The C2PA expects 
ISO to approve the standard for publication by mid 2025. 
Further, the C2PA' s architecture is built to allow transparency across internet scale .. Several 
unique tenets undergird the C2PA specification that make scale possible. We would like to 
'highlight four critical aspects: 
• Interoperability: The specification is written so that it can be adopted by any platfonn, 
OEM, or device. Any compliant mechanism can read, display, and add information to the 
provenance chain. This creates aJ1 interoperable provenance model for digital content that 
can move around the internet, with the content in real-time. 
• Tamper Evidence: Files signed with the C2PA specification become tamper-evident , 
helping content consumers know if unauthorized changes were made after signing 
occurred. 
• Multiple File Formats: The specification can be applied to dozens of file formats 
ranging from image formats such as JPEG and PNG, to audio and video formats such as 
MP3 and MP4, as well as documents and text files. Also, provenance can be applied to 
machine learning files for data, models, and applications. 
• Voluntary: For files captured with cameras, the addition of Content Credentials (the 
cryptographically bound metadata about the file's origin and history) is optional and can 
be added as creators decide. However , generative Al platforms are increasingly using 
2 

This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprieta,y or confidential 
in.formation. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the A I Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution. 
Content Credentials as a default setting on all generative outputs to disclose that their 
product/model created a given piece of media. 
Other critical features such as a provenance chain for edits, the ability to adapt to newer 
generative technologies, stability, and scalability are the reasons why the C2PA open standard 
has grown in popularity with private industry and is soon to be a global ISO standard. 
-7 
Mitn.feufD-._ 
AGII\Cmim,.ft-st. /' // 
/ ong••• 
Figure 1-This image shows how all these various elements come together to represent the C2PA architecture. 
Content Credentials 
The C2PA's Content Credentials are cryptographically secured metadata that enable individual 
creators, organizations, or even governments to embed information about themselves directly 
into media. They are designed to ensure the provenance and authenticity of digital content 
through verifiable claims using the same cryptographic technology that secures the Web, a 
crucial distinction for maintaining trust and transparency in the digital ecosystem. Additionally, 
Content Credentials can be incorporated either during media creation on hardware, like on 
phones or cameras, or when exporting through software. These credentia ls attach essential 
3 

This document is approved/or public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential 
information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution. 
metadata. to a media file, allowing for the traoking of its origins, any subsequent modifications , 
and the tools or processes used in its production or alteration. Designed for global accessibility , 
Content Credentials include offline features-such as copying certificates to a secure enclave. 
The C2PA technical specification outlines the structure of these credentials and details the 
assertions regarding a media item's provenance. 
To strengthen Content Credentials against tampering or removing their metadata , a digital 
watermark and fingerprint can be embedded into the digital media. This approach adds extra 
layers of preservation and recovery, resulting in what are known as Durable Content Credentials. 
Combined into a single approach, embedded metadata, watermarking , and fingerprinting form a 
unified solution that is robust enough to ensure that reliable provenance information is available 
no matter where a piece of content goes. This single, harmonized approach is the essence of 
Durable Content Credentials, and because it is the most comprehensive means of enabling 
transparency in content, we are seeing companies accelerate the adoption and integration of 
Content Credentials into their products, some which we detail below. 
Content Credentials 
lssuod by Adobe Inc. o~ Ocl 4, 2023 
Thl5 Image combines multlpCe pieces of 
c:on1ent. Al lee!St one waii: generated with 
anf',I tool 
Produced by Benoit lemolne 
Penguins seen i" tho des~rt. 
App or davlc:9 uHd Adobe Photo:iticp 
Al tool •Nd Adobe Firefly 
Addltional hlatory Yo, 
Fig. 2 -This image shows how embedded Content Credentials appear to users. 
4 

This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential 
informati on. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the Al Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution. 
The C2PA & Content Credentials -Use Cases 
The rapid reliance on digital content, combined with the explosive growth of synthetic media, 
has created new vulnerabilities , opening the door to fraud, image deception , and inaccurate 
decision making. This not only impacts consumers who depend on private enterprises for reliable 
products and services but also threatens American economic competitiveness by undermining the 
integrity of business operations in a global market. 
Ultimately, private industry must adopt holistic and comprehensive cybersecurity and 
operational strategies to safeguard both their consumers and operations from these evolving 
threats. Emerging strategies for verifying digital content authenticity remain largely 
underexplored and unfamiliar to many enterprises , critical industries and governments. 
Emerging technologies like image authentication , Content Credentials, and synthetic media 
detection are essential tools that should be actively explored and integrated (individually and in 
unison) by both the private sector and government as critical components of a robust defense 
framework. Below, we offer several use-cases for Content Credentials across the private sector 
and government. 
Strengthen American innovation and economic growth: The United States can position itself 
at the forefront of artificial intelligence and drive innovation and economic growth by 
championing the use of open technical standards like the one from the C2PA. The C2PA not 
only fuels innovation and enhances competitiveness but it also provides a robust framework for 
safeguarding our trade secrets. Ensuring that digital assets carry content provenance metadata, 
like Content Credentials , can help protect them from theft and unauthorized replication. 
Moreover, the use of the C2PA standard to authenticate business and government information 
becomes a critical shield against adversaries , who might otherwise exploit or steal sensitive 
research and development data, thereby preserving the integrity of corporate and government 
innovations. This also extends to defending business and organizational reputations , as the C2PA 
framework helps prevent the misuse of synthetic media to fabricate damaging narratives about 
businesses, executives , government officials or entire industries. Globally, the establishment of a 
U.S.-led Content Credentials-based verification system can facilitate secure e-commerce and 
strengthen digital trade channels, and reinforce economic alliances and trade agreements , 
ultimately reducing the economic risks posed by adversarial states. 
Enhance business security and mitigate costly fraud: The increased reliance on digital 
operations by businesses and enterprises today elevates their risk of fraud, unauthorized use, 
intellectual property theft, data manipulation , cyber-attacks , and other threats if they cannot 
ensure the accuracy and provenance of their data. Provenance and Content Credentials work 
5 

Tfzis document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprieta,y or confidential 
information. Document c ontents may be reused b;1 the government in developing the Al Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution. 
hand-in-hand with cybersecurity frameworks to ensure that digital content is not tampered with. 
Companies dealing with sensitive data, such as financial institutions , healthcare providers, or law 
firms, can maintain clear digital audit trails for compliance and legal validation. Additionally , 
Content Credentials help mitigate fraud, including financial sector fraud, by verifying the 
authenticity of digital assets and transactions , reducing the risk of manipulated financial 
documents or unauthorized modificatjons. They can also serve as a critical defense against 
phishing campaigns by authenticating media embedded in phishing emails, enabling recipients to 
verify the legitimacy of images, videos, or documents before engaging with malicious content. 
With governments worldwide increasingly legislating new requirements for digital transparency , 
AI governance, and cybersecurity, the C2PA offers a proactive , industry-led solution to support 
compliance with these emerging regulations. 
Protect national security: Adding provenance , transparency and image authenticity into 
business operations and processes will have positive impacts for innovation and national 
security. For example, the adoption of image authenticity and Content Credentials in CISA­
designated critical industries-such as energy, telecommunications, financial services, and 
healthcare-strengthens American national security by protecting against cyber threats, 
deceptive media, and fraud. While Content Credentials can be used in crime scene photography 
and evidence collection, the same capability is also highly useful for national security and law 
enforcement forensics purposes. Moreover , Content Credentials can help establish the 
authenticity of scientific reports and images by helping prevent the manipulation of scier.itific 
data and research findings, which is crucial for national security-related research and 
development. Similarly , government and commercial imagery providers can implement Content 
Credentials for satellite imagery, providing a chain of provenance with their analysis, which is 
particularly important for intelligence applications that rely on accurate and verifiable imagery. 
Lastly, providing a means to verify the origin and editing history of digital content, Content 
Credentials can help combat the spread of foreign malign disinformation campaigns that may 
threaten national security. This is especially important in an era where AI-generated content is 
becoming increasLngly sophisticated and prevalent. 
Recently, the Department of Defense (DoD) started leveraging the C2PA standard and using 
Content Credentia .ls for images on DVIDS, a public website for U.S. military digital media 
content. Having Content Credentials attached to its content helps DoD verify the authenticity of 
the images it captures and uses during important information gathering. In addition, the Content 
Credentials provide an important level of transparency in the content that the DoD shares 
externally -helping to build trust with the public. 
6 

This document is approved for public dissemination . The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential 
information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the Al Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution. 
4 du ■ds HOME FEATURES CONTENT STORIES 
Symphony in the sky (Image 4 of SJ 
Content Credentials 
lss ed t,y DVIDS on Sep 11, 2024 
VIRIN: 240825-F-UT533-1001 
Da.te Created: Aug 25, 2024 
City: Offutt Air Force Base. 
-State: Nebraska 
Country: United States 
Released Kris Pierce 55th Wlng 
OFFUTT AIR FORCE BASE, NEBRASKA, UNITED STATES 
08.25.2024 
Photo by Chad Watkins :\\ 
55th Wing Q. i-\ D Subscribe 
■■■ 
Figure 3 -The Department of Defense's implementation of Content Credentials allows anyone to click the "CR 
icon" on images on DV/DS' website to get important context about the image including when and where it was 
captured. 
Drive government and private sector efficiencies: Image provenance and transparency are 
critical economic drivers that can directly contribute to GDP growth and unlock incredible 
opportunities for innovation in the Al world. The C2PA's open, interoperable standard allows 
different industries and technology providers to integrate provenance into their ecosystems, 
7 

This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential 
information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the Al Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution. 
helping businesses maintain credibility in their communications and digital assets, which in turn 
bolsters consumer confidence and increases economic opportunity. 
Recommendations 
We provide the following recommendations for your consideration: 
Champion the use and adoption of C2PA's standard for content provenance and 
authenticity: The most beneficial approach and way to scale transparent digital content online is 
through the widespread adoption of Content Credentials by technology builders, content creators, 
and platforms. The OSTP and NIST' s identification of and recognition of the C2PA 's open 
standard will help increase adoption, scale the benefits of its adoption and enable the U.S. to 
shape the international standards debate around content provenance. To that end, the 
Administration should consider adoption of the C2P A standard for use in securing the 
government's digital media content. 
Establish U.S. leadership by promoting an industry-led standard for the use of content 
provenance technologies: The Administra tion should promote a U.S. industry-led standard, like 
the C2PA, as the international standard on global content provenance frameworks. By focusing 
on driving adoption, best practices, information sharing amongst government agencies and our 
allies, the Administration can sustain and enhance America's Al dominance. 
Conclusion 
The C2PA technical standard, being industry-led, internationally recognized , and increasingly 
prevalent across companies and their products, uniquely positions the U.S. government to 
demonstrate global leadership by driving its adoption. Shaping standards is crucial for 
determining leadership in AI and other technological fields, and the U.S. government is uniquely 
positioned to lead by championing the work already undertaken by private industry in the C2PA, 
many of which are U.S.-headquarter ed companies . 
In the world of content provenance and authenticity, the C2P A technical standard is one of the 
most compelling technical innovations to emerge. With American leadership , the C2P A can 
become a leading provenance standard worldwide. 
8 

This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential 
information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the Al Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution. 
Appendix I 
The C2PA & Content Credentials -Indush)' Leading the Way with Adoption 
As generative AI continues to reshape the digital landscape, the need for transparency and trust 
in digital content has become increasingly critical. In response, major technology companies 
have been integrating Content Credentials into their platfo1ms and products. From Al-generated 
images and videos to enterprise -level content management systems, these implementations 
represent a significant step toward enhancing digital content provenance. The following section 
highlights the adoption of Content Credentials by key industry leaders, showcasing their 
commitment to fostering greater transparency and authenticity in the evolving digital ecosystem. 
Adobe: Adobe played a significant role in co-founding the C2PA, along with Truepic, 
Microsoft , Arm, Intel and the BBC, and since then, has been actively integrating Content 
Credentials into its products. For example, in Creative Cloud, consumers have access to Content 
Credentials in popular apps like Photoshop and Lightroom , where they can securely attach 
information such as names, dates, edits made and tools used. Other Adobe products including 
Illustrator , Express, Stock, Behance also support Content Credentials and Adobe is continuing to 
roll out capabilities across additional apps. For Adobe's generative AI model Firefly, Content 
Credentials are applied to select Firefly-powered features across Adobe apps to indicate the use 
of generative A I. Most recently, Adobe released a new free web app, Adobe Content 
Authenticity, designed to help creators protect and receive attribution for their work with Content 
Credentials. 
Amazon: On September 12, 2024, Amazon announced it was ioining the C2PA as a Steering 
Committee member. Amazon attaches Content Credentials to the visual assets produced using 
the company 's generative AI models Nova Canvas and Titan Image Generator vl and v2, which 
allows enterprise customers to create and edit images in a range of visual styles. Amazon is also 
working to incorporate Content Credentials in A WS Elemental MediaConvert, a file-based video 
processing service that transcodes content for broadcast and multi-screen delivery at scale. This 
implementation will allow its customers -such as news organizations and sports broadcasters -
to communicate the provenance of the media they are sharing, allowing their distribution 
partners and news aggregators to verify the content's authenticity before posting it on their 
platforms. 
Google: On February 8, 2024, Google, which also includes YouTube , joined the C1PA, marking 
a significant moment for bringing greater transparency to digital content. Google's C2PA 
membership is helping drive broader awareness of Content Credentials and furthering Content 
9 

This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-propri etary or corifidential 
information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the Al Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution. 
Credentials adoption across the technology ecosystem , including in video. Last Fall, Google 
announced plans to expand their use of Content Credentials in Search, Ads. and YouTube -with 
more to come in 2025. 
Linkedln: On May 15, 2024, Linkedln adopted the C2PA standard to enhance the 
transparency and authenticity of digital media on its platform. Linkedln will begin displaying the 
"Cr" icon on irnages and videos that contain Content Credentials in the coming months. By 
clicking the icon, users will be able to view the origin of the media, including the source and 
history of the content~ and whether it was created or edited by AL Linkedln is phasing its 
implementation on the platform and will soon include "Cr" display on ads. 
Meta: On February 6, 2024, Meta announced it would ingest Content Credentials on Facebook, 
Instagram and Threads to assist with its initiative to increase transparency 
online by labeling AI-generated content. Meta's integration of Content Credentials helps 
users on Facebook , lnstagram, and Threads to identify AI-generated or edited images. Meta 
joined the C2PA as a Steering Committee member in September of 2024. 
Microsoft: Microsoft is actively integrating Content Credentials across its platforms to enhance 
transparency and trust in digital content. One of Microsoft's implementations of Content 
Credentials is within its Azure Text to Speech Avatar service. This feature attaches a manifest to 
generated avatar videos, indicating that the content was produced by Microsoft's service and 
providing a timestamp of creation. Microsoft has integrated Content Credentials into AI­
generated images created with Bing Image Creator, Microsoft Designer, Azure OpenAI DALL­
E, and Paint. Microsoft also has implementations to enable downstream display of Content 
Credentials. Microsoft released a browser extension that can validate C2PA assets. Our 
professional networking platform, Linkedln , ingests provenance information based on the C2P A 
standard and displays associated provenance information for media in a user's feed. 
OpenAI: OpenAI's joining of the C2PA steering committee on May 7, 2024, builds on 
OpenAI's existing C2PA integration for DALL-E 3, which was announced in February of2024. 
Earlier in 2024, OpenAI began including Content Credentials in images generated and 
edited by DALL-E 3, the company's latest text-to-image model, in ChatGPT and the OpenAI 
APL In addition, the company also rolled out Sora, their new text-to-video generation model, in 
December 2024, announcing that Sora-generated videos come with C2PA metadata. which will 
identify a video as coming from Sora to provide transparency , and can be used to verify origin. 
OpenAl's membership and implementation of Content Credentials serves as a strong 
endorsement for the C2PA standard and advancing the collective mission to help restore trust in 
the digital ecosystem. 
10 

This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential 
information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the Al Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution. 
Truepic: Truepic has taken a leading role in advancing the C2PA standard, becoming the first to 
support and integrate the C2PA specification into enterprise workflows through its Vision 
platform. As a founding member, Truepic offers enterprise-grade solutions that provide end-to­
end content authentication and digital verifications for the world's leading businesses. By 
verifying data and embedding C2PA standards directly at the moment of capture, Truepic 
ensures authenticity immediately which allows enterprise to thrive in the AI era. Truepic's 
implementation of image and data verification aligning to the C2P A standard highlight the 
operational efficiency and innovations for business and government through authenticity and 
transparency. 
11 

