PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-h1qh-rfgz
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2091
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Rowan Lockner
Address: United States, 
Em ail:  
General Comment
While the current adm inistration's priorities are focused on protecting and advancing Am erica's critical dom estic econom y, it is also crucial
that any technology advanced in the pursuit of these goals is leveraged fairly, openly, and without bias, aligning with president Trum p's
actions to advance AI.
The current industry-wide im plem entation of AI suffers from  extrem e directionlessness, both at the application and regulatory levels. A
m ajor aspect of this is in regards to the perpetual legal lim bo of AI im plem entation, where LLMs / DL / NN / ML heavily lean on data
training sets that include substantial am ounts of copyrighted m aterial. Moreover, the outputs of AI-associated tools has already received
substantial adjudication. Thaler v. Perlm utter, based on the ruling of Burrow-Giles Lithographic v. Sarony, has already ruled substantively
on this m atter, drawing on the historical recognition of hum an creativity as central to the copyright process. At the input end, Thom son
Reuters Enterprise Centre GMBH v. Ross Intelligence Inc. has further ruled that AI-generated outputs, when based upon training data
m ade of copyrighted and personal m aterial obtained without perm ission from  authors, does not constitute fair use. 
To m eaningfully develop AI technologies - which can becom e essential tools in areas like data science and drug discovery, where the
process parsing through billions of nodes of data can be exponentially accelerated by AI - a m eaningful set of guidelines should be
established. Aligning with the goals of the NSTC to advance this Critical and Em erging Technology (CET), the fundam ental question of AI
copyright should be federally and definitively answered. Am erica's rich and globally-dom inant artistic outputs and technological leadership
can exist in parallel, but only under clearly stated federal guidance. 
To advance AI technologies, it should be firm ly established that the data training sets of LLMs / DL / NN / ML m ust abide by Am erican
copyright standards. Im plem enting this sim ple rule would have m eaningful and im pactful consequences. Such a standard would ensure that
technological leaders in the United States would finally have clear guidance on how to com ply with national standards to ensure that their
outputs are legally viable, while also protecting Am erica's copyright system . Specifically, any AI Action Plan should provide specific
guidance on how data training sets should be constructed out of inputs com plying with national standards on copyrighted m aterials,
avoiding the pitfalls of relying on an incom plete patchwork of court decisions that have not yet fully addressed every fact of this issue. 
Am erica can and should advance AI technologies, while protecting creators and other copyright holders, through such standards.


