PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-y8fx-5k7z
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-4889
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Lena Wyant  
General Comment
So-called "artificial intelligence" from  com panies like OpenAI and its contem poraries, these large language m odels, are perhaps the
greatest m odern exam ple of widespread copyright infringem ent that has ever, and will ever, exist. These m odels are so com ically
inefficient, so absurdly resource-intensive, that they literally cannot exist without theft of art. Building a m odel that uses only the full body of
all available public-dom ain works in literally all of hum an history still would not be effective because that body of work—the
incom prehensibly m assive volum e of hum an achievem ent that any hum an today can read for free—is itself "too sm all" a dataset for these
m odels. 
The people developing these m odels know this, and have from  the beginning. They know that their software is so absurdly, com ically
inefficient—so categorically incapable of "thinking," which they will knowingly lie to you about—that the only possible way to m ake even
the obviously broken, frequently inaccurate, and obviously just asinine product that we are seeing right now, is by doing theft. By breaking
existing copyright. They know that they "have" to do this to get their dem onstrably terrible idea for a piece of software to work, and so
they have already done it. The reason that they have proposed this action plan is not because they wish to use copyrighted m aterial
(though they do), it is because they already have. And they are being sued by m any, m any different copyright holders right now for that
obvious theft, and they are hoping to retroactively have legal justification for the laws they have broken. 
I am  a writer, if m y m anner of speaking did not m ake it obvious enough. I am  a creator, an artist, and m aking original art is m y greatest
passion in life. The people at these com panies loathe people like m e. They hate that m y creativity is som ething that they cannot code,
cannot program , cannot sell to other people without first paying m e or som eone like m e. They have such innum erable contem pt for art and
for artists that they will spend billions upon billions upon billions of dollars (of others' m oney, m ind) to develop a product they can then
m arket to others, all for the sake of not paying people like m e to do the thing that we do. They claim  to be building the future, but they
know that they are not, and are too deep in it now to adm it that what they have m ade is a failure. 
Do not let them  attem pt to "salvage" their idea that was obviously insidious and terrible from  the very beginning. Certainly, do not let them
do so by giving them  special perm ission to ignore laws and tram ple all over the creative people that their awful software seeks to
inadequately replace.


