PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2ovc-pabj
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8497
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Stuart Wagner
Em ail:  
General Comment
It is critical that governm ent and industry are able to develop novel capabilities within a perm issive developm ent environm ent directly with
protected and classified data. Som e ideas to accom plish this. 
1) Sandbox environm ents that support untrusted software to be com m ingled with classified and protected data. These environm ents allow
anything to com e in, but require deep inspection to let any data or software to leave. This allows for sandboxes to bring in m alware,
untrusted software like Deepseek, and run it directly with protected or classified data - to learn from  these capabilities and learn how
effective they are in a m ilitary or intelligence context.
2) One day/One week clearances - provide officials in all organizations with classified data the ability to waive clearance requirem ents for
short term  projects, work, and collaborations. For exam ple, DoD should be able to throw a one-week hackathon and with proper
security protections, allow uncleared personnel tem porary access to Secret inform ation if there is a national security need to do so (such
as trying their product on Secret or Top Secret data).
3) Autom atic classification of data - Security classification guides should be written determ inistically and without contradiction such that
their policies can be algorithm ically applied to classified and protected data. Data should sim ilarly be autom atically declassified given
proper tim e as well. Fundam entally, m achines should be increasingly involved in applying rules about the classification of data and when its
ready to be declassified.
Finally one last idea is autom ated rules of engagem ent and m ilitary law analysis. The decision speed by lawyers still at tim es closes the
window of a potential m ilitary operation to m ove ahead - ie a lawyer takes longer than the tim e window of a m ission to m ake a decision.
We should by policy increasingly be leveraging natural language processing and m achine learning to increasingly autom ate rules of
engagem ent interpretation during com petition and war to ensure that we are not m issing those windows of opportunity. 


