PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-c960-m uij
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1502
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Nathan iel 
Middleton  
General Comment
I'm  writing this com m ent as a concerned citizen, in regards to the policies that could potentially be enacted in regards to AI-related
regulations, (and/or lack thereof). To put it sim ply, by giving com panies the ability to take from  people's work without getting the copyright
for said work, it is stripping the United States culture, creativity, and vision. It puts people out of jobs - hundreds of thousands of people
across m any different fields; Film , Electronic Entertainm ent, Traditional artists, contractors, and a vast num ber of other fields would be hit
hard, irreparably. 
Allowing Artificial Intelligence, and com panies who develop this AI, (OpenAI, Google, etc.) full access to people's work with no
com pensation or regard for their copyright and creative input. Which has been som ething said com panies are trying to rally for, is in
essence m aking theft of property and creative works legal in the United States, as long as the people stealing are corporations. 
Corporations like these are using scary buzzwords like 'a threat to national security' because they're trying to appeal to em otion, with a
false sense of authority on that m atter. These corporations to not know m ore about national security than the governm ent itself does no
m atter how m uch they flaunt the word around, and they do not actually have the best interest of the country or it's security at heart. All
these corporations want to do is m ake it easier for them  to profit off of other peoples work without obtaining the copyright. If anything,
giving com panies this power, which they will then in turn package and sell to the people, will be worse for national security.
If these com panies want this data, they should have to go through the sam e process they do to obtain other user data - by getting
perm ission directly from  the people they're taking from . Otherwise it's no different than letting people waltz into your hom e and take your
stuff without perm ission so that they m ay recycle it, splice it, and turn it into som ething else only to turn around and re-sell it. As som eone
who was born, raised, and grew up in the United States, who was told that this was a place of opportunity where people can work to
achieve whatever they want to - the notion that com panies can take the fundam ental freedom s we enjoy as citizens, strip them , rewrite
laws that allow them  to do so, and sell it back to m e is frightening.
I write this com m ent sim ply to give m y thoughts on the m atter, and to discuss m y fear and frustration that such ideas can even get this far in
the first place as they go against the very core of what the United States is supposed to be, what it was founded to be. I am  100% FOR
regulating AI com panies and requiring them  to go through standard process in order to get data from  individual citizens, I think regulation
is very im portant to prevent theft, bolster security for individuals in the country, and m ake sure that com panies do not get to steal in such a
way, as other regulations have m ade sure they don't in the past with other data protection.


