PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-wazo-c9k1
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3834
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Alfred Deskiew icz 
General Comment
The unfortunate reality of so-called "Artificial Intelligence" is that it does not exist.
I am  a 47yo m an who has been studying com puter technology since I was 7 years old. I built several internet startups and was
instrum ental in one of the largest online retailers in the world. For a num ber of years, I worked in social m edia and SEO (Search Engine
Optim ization). I know quite a bit about com puters, and I also know when people are lying about what a com puter can do. This
unfortunately happens a lot. We have had DECADES of tech scam s which am ounted to nothing but boiling water.
I am  well aware that people in Leadership positions do not have tim e to study every subject and hire experts, but it is an open secret that
such experts exploit their positions to secure greater positions in private industry. So please take it from  a m an of faith who lives by the
good tenets against Greed and Fraud.
AI does not exist.
There is no such thing as a self-generating program . A com puter is a m achine. Billions of com puters are still a m achine. A m achine can
only do what it is told to do. ChatGPT can be easily trained to lie or the settings adjusted to product doctored results. There are m any
people eager to dem onstrate this.
Further these results are not im pressive. Prom pt generated im ages have existed since the 1990s. The only thing this technology does is
steal property from  m illions of people to barely im prove it's results. One such exam ple was a video generator capable of rendering stock
footage, but without showing us what data was used to generate this video, how do we know this isn't just a copy taken from  an archive?
What this order seeks to do is loose these com panies, who are presenting this inauthentic product as som ething which it is not, upon
Am erican Econom ies, Am erican Privacy, Am erican Ethics, Am erican Cultural Exports and further, Am erican Lives to their own
PERSONAL ends. It is giving people with steam rollers perm ission to drive over everyone else's hom e and lawn and prohibits those who
are victim ized from  giving their consent before or seeking justice after.
Are we so weak? Are you so ready to surrender?
Because that is all this is. Surrender. It is giving up and letting program m ers and industrialists run wild upon 300m illion people do whatever
they want and perm anently shutting civil authority out of the loop. What they want-- and this is on the record --is for the US m ilitary to use
their system s for threat m odeling and strategy. But again, they own this technology. They write this code-- which can't even m ake
convincing footage of reality --and they can m ake it do anything they want. What if they decide they don't like you? The person reading
this. All they need to do is add you to "The Pile" of data with the appropriate flags. Like putting your photo in there with the filenam e
"TerroristThreat.jpg" or "Pervert.PNG."
This is the kind of power they want to give to these people.


There is no version of God or Thom as Jefferson which would be okay with this.
Again, the technology is not the issue. It's effectiveness is beside the point. The issue is the people controlling it. I URGENTLY
recom m end that this action be curtailed and that in fact tighter restrictions be enacted to ensure the safety and welfare of the public to
respond to the rise of this unknown and barely justified technology. It is your duty to protect your children, your neighbors, your
colleagues and the spirit of our divine species to refuse this capitulation to industrialist who are so distant from  honor.


