PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2nch-obyb
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8455
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
While it is tem pting to see AI as a m agic wand to fix m any of our problem s, it will likely bring m ore problem s and m ore expenses than
savings and benefits. What people like Sam  Altm an are asking for is to let steal what's owned by a lot of com panies that protect that sort
of thing very fiercely. Not to m ention all the problem s and inaccuracies that AI currently deals with that would m ake a wide scale
im plem entation of such software extrem ely dangerous for any organization or governm ent. Just asking som e of these m odels to do basic
things like count the num ber of a specific letter in a word is often wrong, let alone trying to use it to replace program m ers or software
engineers.
Also, m ajor corporations like Disney or Am azon would be hit by this disproportionately as their IPs and characters would be used
without any com pensation and could then end up be used to m ake m oney off said characters and IPs after AI had altered it. These AI
com panies are struggling to find m ore investors because every is waiting for the big returns to com e in but never do. It's overhyped
software that can't do m uch very well without m ajor inaccuracies. These AI program s even will som etim es adm it to just m aking up
som ething to give you the answer you want to hear. The wrong answer could cause a case to be dism issed, or a software system  to fail
because an update was coded wrong. A com pany dealing with this would deal with angry custom ers. A governm ent dealing with this
could fall into crisis overnight.
If these AI com panies are begging to be the one exem ption to our very tight copyright and IP laws, it's clearly a sign they are failing and
desperate that opening the flood gates will solve everything. It won't. It will just have m ore data to waste m oney on and continue to give
incorrect or outright m ade up answers to questions and problem s. It's a bad investm ent and would cost the governm ent and countless
corporations billions.


