PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zksn-wg2k
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5949
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Baillie Puckett   
Email: 
General Comment
March 15, 2025
From :
Baillie Puckett, MFA
39469 Terracina Pl
Castaic, CA 91384
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
As a professional writer, I have studied for years to hone the skills necessary to write stories of all kinds--short stories, novels, and even
the occasional poem . I don’t m ake a lot of m oney at the m om ent but what I do m ake is being threatened right now by the forced
im plication of AI system s. OpenAI, along with Microsoft, Google, Apple, and other Big Tech com panies are threatening to destroy
creative industries by dem anding that the Am erican governm ent allows special carve outs in copyright law.
Large language m odels are trained on the creative work crafted by hard-working people. The work of m y friends and m y colleagues,
along with the work of hundreds of thousands of Am erican creators, was taken and fed into these “learning m odels” without consent or
com pensation. These generative “AI” m odels are not intelligent by any m eans--they are fed our work and spit it back out without the
context or thought that went into the original work. That is not intelligence. That is plagiarism . Big Tech com panies want to then sell that
spit-out work to the people who hire creatives in the first place. We’re com peting with plagiarists and being cut out of the m arket. 
Big Tech com panies want the Am erican governm ent to create loopholes to m ake the theft and exploitation of Am erican creators’
copyrighted work legal. They say that their m achine “learning” is a m atter of “fair use.” Fair use, however, requires thought and
understanding of the initial work. A com puter cannot discern thought and therefore cannot use this m aterial fairly. 
The Internet is not m eant to be stolen. It’s an exchange of inform ation, thoughts, and em otion across the world. And it’s not for sale. Big
Tech com panies want the adm inistration to believe that allowing copyright violations will som ehow stifle Am erican innovation. But if
creators cannot protect their work from  thieves like OpenAI, there will be no incentive to create and innovate. Instead, we will create a
cycle of the m achine-learning that sim ply tries to reinvent the wheel and sell it back to us at a higher cost. 
How are writers supposed to be willing to create and innovate if every attem pt at creation is swiftly stolen by corporate tech com panies?
How is this profitable for anyone?
If the governm ent is interested in protecting Am erican innovation, it m ust protect Am erican creators. Copyright law cannot be gutted to
allow Big Tech com panies the opportunity to exploit and steal from  not only Am erican creators but the everyday Am erican m an trying to
sim ply exist without perm ission, com pensation, and m ost im portantly: transparency.
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving Big Tech com panies an opportunity to burgle the average Am erican, but
rather on ensuring a fair m arketplace:


First, the governm ent m ust ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, so that we can decide when and where
our work is used by AI system s.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is
preserved. Our work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just
Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their
training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
Thank You,
Baillie Puckett


