PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 14, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-8end-rom 7
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1437
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Evander Brapity  
General Comment
Dearest National Science Foundation,
I write to offer m y perspective in respect to the request for public com m ent regarding artificial intelligence. 
As per the prom pt, I am  specifically interested in sharing m y views on the “application and use (either in the private sector or by
governm ent)” of artificial intelligence. 
To be clear, this is com ing from  a hum an, not a m an-m ade m achine gone m ad.
I’m  not interested in living in a world where we have surveillance bots inside the halls of a state legislature, like we saw recently in New
York, keeping an eye on everyone to m ake sure everything is as it should be. I’m  not interested in living in a world where such
surveillance bots could be led by artificial intelligence, which is used to discern the people nearby who m ay be a threat because of a
certain thing they uttered. 
I’m  not interested in living in a world where artificial intelligence could easily be deployed for nefarious purposes on internet system s
owned by the richest m an in the world, who could control them  and has no loyalty to m y country. 
I’m  not interested in living in a world where artificial intelligence is used in the public sector in a m anner sim ilar to what was previously
used in the private sector, cutting away at peoples’ livelihoods, faith in governm ent and safety nets because of who is currently in power. 
I’m  not interested in living in a world where artificial intelligence is used in the private sector by controlling their products to disobey
requests from  their users, as has been the case with som e autonom ous vehicles.
I’m  not interested in living in a world where artificial intelligence chatbots have been used to instruct or encourage hum ans into harm ing
them selves. 
I’m  not interested in living in a world where artificial intelligence could be used to start and continue to execute an internal facing battle that
further pits our great nation apart because a sim pleton is in power. 
I’m  not interested in living in a world where artificial intelligence is used in our elections, day to day governance, journalism , m usic and so
m any other critical activities which require hum an em pathy and understanding. 
I’m  not interested in living in a world where artificial intelligence could be weaponized to elim inate dissent, creativity, inspiration, love, and
thought because such things are a threat to the party in power. 
I’m  not interested in living in a world where artificial intelligence could easily be used to spy on every single one of us right now using the
device all of us pick up first, last or both, in the day. 


Instead, I want to live in a world where artificial intelligence is used sparingly and with discerning precision. 
I want policies and laws in place that use artificial intelligence to find cures for cancer, Alzheim ers and countless other horrible illnesses in
the world.
I want policies and laws in place that use artificial intelligence to help solve com plex problem s like ending world hunger, war and disease. 
I want policies and laws in place that use artificial intelligence responsibly. 
I want policies and laws in place that put artificial intelligence in the backseat, behind the interests of hum ans. 
I’d venture a guess and say I’m  not the only Am erican who wants to live in the latter world. Alas, I know which direction you’re heading.
Prove m e wrong.


