PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2p28-op4q
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8502
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Sam  Rafkin
Address: United States, 
Em ail:  
General Comment
AI is not the revolutionary technology that the com panies backing it would have you believe. Rather than generate new inform ation at the
push of a button, it instead steals this inform ation from  thousands of unwilling participants. 
Oftentim es corporations will harshly police the internet for anything that m ight be a violation of copyright, regardless of concepts like fair
use. Yet these sam e com panies use AI as an excuse to ignore the rules, steal the work of struggling artists around the world, and see no
issue prom oting it as the future. 
The arts are always the first thing to be attacked in tim es of stress. And while AI m ay not affect m ore traditional industries for the m om ent,
I ask you to consider what happens when this m om ent elapses. Because this is not about a sm all cabal of Hollywood elites trying to hoard
m oney, as AI advocates will try to convince you.
It is about the people who live on m eager paychecks trying to have their artistic voices heard. It is about the people working m ultiple gigs
just so they can attem pt to m ake art. Their lives are tough enough. They deserve to at least know their work will rem ain theirs, and not be
force-fed into a m achine with no m orals, no ethical line in the sand, and no intervention from  hum ankind.
None of us have the power to enact change on such a large scale. But you do. I hope you will m ake the choice to better our world by
encouraging the hum an artists we already have, not replacing them  with soulless corporate algorithm s. 
Thank you for your tim e, and I hope you will see this issue the way so m any of us do.


