PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-yldn-xq6u
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-5140
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Lars van Kluyve
Address: United States, 
Em ail:  
General Comment
AI is trained on stolen data. Be it Meta training Llam a on 82 TB on pirated books or OpenAI training on stolen private data, theft was an
inherent part of the developm ent. Inherent however does not m ean necessary: they could have rem unerated every author and artist and
respected their wishes for how their art should have been used. Likewise, properly obtaining the data should have been prioritized. The
failure to do so m eans that the current m odels are built on theft that im itates and endangers artists and writers while lowering the quality of
writing trem endously.
For this alone, these com panies deserve prosecution, as laws should apply equally. 
China has proved with deepseek that the hyperscaling and larger data solution was not necessary. Continuing on this path will not develop
AI further. More data does not equal better m odels, we need cheaper, m ore efficient architecture. The current firm s are trying to avoid
responsibility while they doing their best to avoid legal consequences for their selfish actions. AI as it is is an unprofitable bubble that
generates no profit and is propped up by investm ent. Putting challenges in front of these AI developers will lead to better, sm arter and
m ore efficient outcom es. Rewriting copyright will let bad actors get away with inefficient practices only to be upstaged by China again.
These LLMs are not even proper intelligence, they just reproduce hum an language via statistics and m achine learning.
Do NOT give these com panies m ore little gifts they will not properly use and have them  take som e responsibility.


