PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-1jvk-dg8q
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7840
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Generative AI is problem atic because it pulls on the creative work of m illions of people without their knowledge or consent, and never
com pensates them  for their work. The people who m ake Generative AI also say that it is always hungry, dem anding m ore and m ore
resources: content to place into the data bank, and physical resources to keep it powered. 
It is in the end theft, not only of the creative work and effort of people, but of thought as well. 
By relying so heavily on generative AI, the Am erican people will cease to think on their own, and lack critical thinking skills. By m aking
generative AI prolific, the Am erican people can easily be m anipulated by other powers by feeding m isinform ation into the data pool, which
will be regurgitated by an uncaring m achine that they believe have the answers. 
Stop generative AI. It is a poison that is killing us all.
Attachments
Letter about Gen AI


From:
Artist/Psychology Graduate
Re: National Science Foundation’ s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am an everyda y American who illustrate s character s and create s logos for clients. I have worked 
hard for years to develop the skill s and knowledge to build my business, and have been luck y enough 
to be a part of multiple creative communities, many of which cater to minority group s like LGBTQ+, 
those who are neurodivergent, and those with learning disabilities. Because of these communities I 
have made long friendships, helped other s overcome social anxiet y, and was honored to teach others 
valuable skill s and experience s they will cherish for years to come. 
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to 
destroy thousands of American small businesses like mine with their recent demand to create 
special carve outs in copyright law.
AI system s can onl y be produced by first training on work made by people. M y unique work, and the 
work of hundreds of thousand s of other everyda y American creator s was taken and fed into these AI 
system s without our consent or any compensation. They ingest our work, reassemble it, and then sell 
it back to our client s – directl y competing with u s and cutting u s out of the marketplace.
Now these Big Tech companie s are asking thi s administration to create exceptions and loophole s to 
make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are 
suggesting that if a machine ingest s and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow suddenly “fair 
use”.
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be their s for the taking. They claim that if thi s administration does not allow them to rewrite the 
law in this wa y, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to protect 
the incentive to create and innovate.
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big 
Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new innovative piece 
of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it immediately stolen by 


Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly make a living 
doing these things? 
When everything is stolen, nothing will be original, and there will be no incentive to move forward with 
other technology in the future. Generative AI will kill American thought, creativity, individuality, 
and critical thinking.  
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday 
Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
•First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective
consent , so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
•Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the
incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic value,
so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech.
•Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, requiring
them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI
generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. In fact, I still believe that if Generative AI can 
be made ethically, fairly, and with consent, it can be a huge boon in the future. But we should not 
sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of millions of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting 
copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


