PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-zw4c-1jr7
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-6180
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
March 15, 2025
From :
A. Foresta
Oak Forest, Illinois
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Inform ation on the Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I love art. I love books and the written word. I love paint and colored pencils and digital renderings. I love songs and photographs,
television shows and m ovies. Even clothes are an art form  and I love them  and the truly infinite ways art and creativity influence m y life.
Unfortunately, the AI system s m ade by Big Tech com panies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy thousands of
Am erican artists, songwriters, authors, and even sm all businesses with their recent dem and to create special carve outs in copyright law.
AI system s can only be produced by first training on work m ade by people. The unique works of hundreds of thousands of other
everyday Am erican creators was taken and fed into these AI system s without consent or com pensation. They ingest the work, reassem ble
it, and then sell it back to the public. This is direct com petition for those artists who created the work in the first place and com pletely cuts
them  out of the m arketplace.
Now these Big Tech com panies are asking this adm inistration to create exceptions and loopholes to m ake this practice of stealing
Am erican creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggesting that if a m achine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it
is som ehow suddenly “fair use”. 
They seem  to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim
that if this adm inistration does not allow them  to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle Am erican innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of Am erican copyright law is to protect the incentive to create and innovate. 
If we the Am erican people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the
incentive to create? If everyday Am ericans create a new innovative piece of com puter code, a new visual design, or a new piece of m usic
only to have it im m ediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How can people possibly m ake a
living doing these things?
Want to protect Am erican innovation? Protect Am erican creators. Do not create new copyright exem ptions that allow Big Tech
com panies to exploit and steal from  creators and everyday Am ericans without perm ission, com pensation, or transparency.
This adm inistration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech com panies, but rather on ensuring a fair
m arketplace with com petition:
First, the governm ent should ensure that creators and everyday Am ericans give effective consent, so that they can decide when and where
their work is used by AI system s.


Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing m arketplace, so that the incentive to create for sm all businesses is
preserved. Their work has im m ense econom ic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just
Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from  Big Tech com panies, requiring them  to disclose what m aterial is in their
training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
I am  not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am  consistently im pressed by the capabilities of these AI system s, and find them  incredibly useful for
m any things. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Am ericans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting
copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to com m ent on these im portant issues.


