PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-m zyw-fcn0
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2542
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Em ail:  
Organization:  International Tradem ark Association (INTA)
General Comment
INTA is pleased to subm it the attached docum ent in response to the Request for Inform ation. Please feel free to reach out to
if you have any questions or concerns about our subm ission.
Attachments
INTA Response to RFI on US AI Action Plan 15March2025


March 15 , 2025  
Submitted via https://www.nitrd.gov/  
Response to  Request for Information: National Science Foundation  
AGENCY: Networking and Information Technology Research and Development 
(NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO), National Science Foundation  
ACTION: Request for information  
1.Introduction
The International Trademark Association (INTA)  is pleased to provide our response to the 
above referenced R equest for Information. We are aware of the transcendental 
challenges and opportunities raised by Artificial Intelligence (AI) and  are evaluating our 
positions on various Intellectual Property ( IP) related topics . Our comments focus on high 
level principles that should guide the development of the  proposed Artificial Intelligence 
Action Plan . In brief, although we recognize the potentially enormous impact of AI 
technology and tools  on U.S. businesses and their relationships with the United States’ 
trading partners, w e believe that the American government should tread carefully before 
enacting any AI  related legislation . The biggest challenge in forming an Action Plan is the 
need to strike the right balance between acceptable use of data to train AI modules, 
ensuring that creators can exploit their work for fair compensation , determining if/how 
works created wholly or in part by AI can or should be granted IP protection,  and providing  
reasonabl e and consistent protection for individual privacy  and freedom.    
2.American  Intellectual Property Law  in Relation to AI
With the advancement of AI in general, and the advent of Generative AI in particular, 
numerous issues have arisen relating to AI technology . Few policy issues have greater 
implications on national security, global competitiveness, and innovation than the use of 
Artificial Intelligence. As such, AI policy warrants special attention to ensure that AI can 
be leveraged in a way that promotes innovatio n and protects intellectual property rights 
holders.  


Page | 2 A central motivating factor for innovations and novel uses based on the ability of 
innovators to profit from their creations. Indeed, this is recognized by the United States 
Constitution in Article 1, Section 8, Clause 8 which states,  
[The Congress shall have Power …] To promote the Progress 
of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to 
Authors and Inventors the exclusive right to their respective 
Writings and Discoveries .  
Our Founding Fathers realized that without securing rights for authors  and inventors, the 
public would be unable to  devote the time and expense necessary to advance technology 
and the arts . Technology advances on a daily basis. Our Founding Fathers realized that 
providing rights to authors and inventors would lead to the advancement of technology 
and the arts . By specifying that these rights should be secured for “limited times,” the US 
Constitution recognizes the tradeoff between rights of innovators to profit from their 
works, and the rights of the public to likewise enjoy the benefits of such advancements.  
In the field of copyright in particular, the balancing of such rights has been in the forefront 
for Generative Artificial Intelligence . Two key disputes  which are an offshoot of the 
advancement of Generative Artificial Intelligence are copyright protection for works of 
authorship created by Generative Artificial Intelligence, and the rights of creators of works 
to protect their works from data mining for inappropriate use in AI training .  
A major issue to consider and to monitor is how the Copyright office analyzes and weighs 
the dichotomy between protectable works generated by human contributions and works 
created through Generative AI . Should the internal resolution of these issues by the 
Copyright Office be seen as stifling technological advancement or if resolution of these 
issues th rough the court system creates ambiguity or stifles technological advancement, 
then Congressional involvement may be warranted  but only as a last resort .  
The issue of the uncompensated use of works of authorship created by third parties to 
train Generative AI technology to create new works  is the subject of an upcoming part of 
the Copyright Office’s on -going series of reports . This subject matter i s, likewise , the focus 
of a number of copyright infringement suits working their way through the court system . 
At issue here is a delicate balance between encouraging the use of AI to create new 
content on the one hand, and the protection  of existing and future works of authorship, 
on the other . How this issue is resolved merits close scrutiny . As mentioned above, if 
judicial decisions trend away from striking the delicate balance between fair use for 
inclusion of certain copyrighted works while at the same time protecting authors from 
having others commercially benefit directly from the copying of their works, a 
Congressional remedy may be appropriate .  


Page | 3 Copyright protections will likely drive the future use of AI in society . Governmental Policy 
should strongly weigh the protections afforded by the Constitution and Congressional 
actions to make sure intellectual property rights continue to drive the advancement of 
technology and innovation .  
We also notice equivalent issues with respect to Patents, especially in two circumstances. 
The first one is that the requirements for obtaining patents for  industrial designs and 
inventions are different therefore, inventorship tests should be different to account for the 
difference in  the underlying rationale for  the requirements.  The second, and more 
importantly, is our concern about the capacity of AI to artificially populate prior art given 
its capacity to create claims and inventions that have never been in control or possessed 
by an actual inventor. False or artificial prior art created by AI, block American inventors 
and prevent the competitiveness they could achieve through the patent system . 
IP Law is intended to adapt to new technological advancements, and as new issues arise , 
the U.S. c ourts  are well placed to approach these questions in a thoughtful and careful 
manner using the existing framework under  the US Code  (USC)  and case law . There are questions 
about fair use and just compensation for inventions and creative works that are pending 
before American courts . The outcomes of these cases will enable actors on both sides of 
the AI equation to make risk-based  choices on how they creat e and market new works.  
INTA supports the premise that U.S. law currently provides  stakeholders the breadth of 
protection necessary for enforcing  their Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) . We do not 
support any legislative changes to the  USC  at this time.  
3.Data Protection and Privacy in Relation to AI
While we assert the USC does not presently need amendments to its IP law , we do note 
an urgent need for harmonized Federal law for balancing privacy and data in AI training . 
Currently, data protection/privacy laws are a patchwork across America . American 
inventors are operating in an unstable risk environment . Legal certainty creates more 
incentives to innovate . We recommend developing clear legal standards for AI use of data 
sets that may contain personal data . As the proposed Action Plan is nationwide, we 
support regulation at the Federal level. Harmonization and legal certainty sow fertile 
ground for continued innovation in AI.  
4.AI State of Play
The AI Action Plan should include a review and identification of  AI applications so that 
potential problem areas may be identified and future issues anticipated . Such a survey 
should be reasonable in scope and prepared with guidance from AI industry experts. It 
may include existing and developing applications and learning models. While AI has 
unlimited use, the plan should reasonably balance  consideration of additional regulation 


Page | 4 for areas needing to be addressed, keep ing in mind the protections already available . Any 
proposed legislation or regulation of AI should encourage innovation and recognize that 
AI, in its current and future forms, will have transformative, positive impacts across 
industries and society .  Therefore, should regulation become necessary in the future  it 
should be technologically feasible  and not overly burdensome . 
5.Proposed Attributes  for an  American  AI Action Plan
a)Protect the First Amendment.  A U.S. AI policy should include considerations of
First Amendment, free speech,  and fair use implications (i.e., how to balance those
rights against potentially enormous harms, particularly those harms impacting
privacy interests of children and non-public figures)
b)Insulate Against Anticipated Harms.  Innovation in the AI space should also
include (and an AI Action Plan should encourage), development of technological
means to insulate against anticipated harms or concerns with the technology
(these so-called, “antidotes” to AI systems/products/etc. should be an equally
weighted priority along with promotion of AI development). For example, in the
trademark space, as AI improvement can generate better fakes, such as fake
specimens as would be submitte d to the USPTO, systems designed to identify AI
and potential fraud generated by AI should be developed in tandem .
The ability to detect AI, especially malicious uses of AI and AI -generated content,
will help protect Americans from bad actors, AI systems developed or utilized in
less regulated jurisdictions, or Countries of Particular Concern that might act
contrary to  the interests of the United States .
c)Transparen t AI Use . AI uses should be reasonably identifiable by the public,
though the means of achieving this should be reasonable or flexible enough to
avoid stifling innovation, overburdening industry,  or obsolescence .
d)Fram ewor k for Liability and Defenses.  Although we do not support amending
the USC, to the extent that one does not already exist in current regulations, there
should be a framework for liability and defenses to liability for utilization and
deployment of AI to engage in violations of or detection of violations of:
▪IP
▪Right of Publicity
▪Privacy rights (and any dignitary harms)
▪Consumer protection issues (such as false endorsement,
misinformation, etc.)


Page | 5 ▪Protection of children
6.Conclusion
We applaud the Administration’s decision to form an AI Action Plan that protects 
innovation and provides the competitive advantages needed to ensure that the U.S. 
continues to play a meaningful role in the development of  new technology . We also 
recognize that a reasonable Action Plan will drive investment, create jobs,  and bring 
opportunities . Further , the Administration’s initiative to develop an AI Action Plan supports 
innovation while fostering a dynamic and competitive technological ecosystem . The US 
plays a significant role in fostering creativity and driving developments that have 
influenced industries inside and outside of its borders.  
INTA is pleased to provide the preceding observations and recommendations . We are 
available to discuss our comments in more detail. Please contact Lori Schulman 
(  or Jenny Simmons (  for any additional 
information.  
7.About INTA
Founded in N ew York City  over 100 years ago, INTA is a n Association of brand owners 
and professionals dedicated to supporting trademarks and complementary IP to foster 
consumer trust, economic growth, and innovation, and committed to building a better 
society through brands . Members include nearly 6,500  organizations, representing more 
than 34,350 individuals (trademark owners, professionals, and academics) from 185 
countries, who benefit from the Association’s resources, policy development, education 
and training, and international network . The majority of INTA’s members are American 
based or have ties to American brands.  
Thank you , in advance , for considering the views of INTA.  
Sincerely yours, 
Etienne Sanz de Acedo  
INTA Chief Executive Officer  


