PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-2qsl-l1kv
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-8535
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Mom  Milph
Address: 
General Comment
Parlor tricks and snake oil.
That’s what services like OpenAI and ChatGPT that intend to get unfettered, free reign on extracting data from  licensed and stolen
m aterial is; bullheaded dives forward into fully supporting this approach without considering the laws in place that protect our talent and
property will cause hardship unparalleled to the likes of every current terror within our country. And it goes without saying that this indeed
will also lead to m ore unnecessary legal battles and headaches for individuals, com panies, and countries alike.
Let alone the fact that where the technology stands right now, it’s at best an overvalued com m odity that has failed to produce any
respectable results for the fields of entertainm ent and industry. And at worst, has served as a tool for harassm ent, false inform ation and
news. The idea that this will produce better Am erican power is laughable at best when AI is currently dum bing down our children, m aking
our writing lazy, wasting tim e by constantly being incorrect, and outputting the m ost garish and uncanny content that’s cosplaying as real
entertainm ent.
Unless a leash is properly put on the approaches these AI services have, it will only em bolden an apocalypse across the United States of
low quality, detestable and incorrect sludge. And as Am erica leads by exam ple, other nations will follow suit as what is a m anageable
dilution of unnecessary pollution into the entire ecosystem  of the internet becom es an unsalvageable wastewater of endless trash.


