PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-12da-w3an
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7090
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Brett Bullion
Em ail:  
General Comment
This docum ent is approved for public dissem ination. The docum ent contains no business-proprietary or confidential inform ation.
Docum ent contents m ay be reused by the governm ent in developing the AI Action Plan and associated docum ents without attribution. 
My nam e is Brett Bullion. I am  a freelance illustrator. I am  very concerned with the creation of AI datasets in regard to copyright law and
people’s personal data, the environm ental and energy costs of im plem enting AI, and the disruption that I have seen in the creative fields
where AI has already been displacing artists.
AI datasets are created from  the m ass scraping of inform ation, generally from  the webpages on the internet, that the dataset creator does
not have the rights to use. This is obviously a clear violation of copyright law and incredibly harm ful to sm all, independent creators that rely
on those protections to create unique works and prevent others from  stealing and profiting on them . 
Generative AI such as Open AI, MidJourney, ChatGPT, and the countless other generators that have appeared over the past few years
have been used to replace creative workers across the board. This includes writers, artists, m usicians, voice actors, etc., as well as m any,
m any other fields outside of the arts. Knowing that these Gen AI services are created off of the stolen work of these creatives and then
used to generate profit by the service provider and used by people and com panies as a replacem ent for hiring artists is a clear violation of
m ultiple rules in the Fair Use doctrine, especially the fourth rule which looks at the effect on potential m arkets for the copyright owner.
Allowing AI com panies to circum vent copyright law in order to build these services that then replace the artists they stole from  would
devastate a group of workers that are already underpaid on average and struggling. On a larger scale it would also allow for the theft of
m uch larger IPs controlled by large com panies and studios, which would create incredibly m urky waters for when an end user
unknowingly steals an existing IP and uses it in their own project. 
There are already m any court cases going on covering these exact issues and I would hope that the executive branch would not overstep
their bounds and brush these issues past the courts in order to appease AI com panies.
There is m uch m ore to be said on the m atter such as environm ental im pacts, how Gen AI is being used to create child pornography, has
increased the am ount of scam  calls, texts, and im personations used to steal from  or dam age others, as well as deep fakes used to create
incredibly harm ful disinform ation. I’m  sorry that I do not have the tim e to contribute m ore but I wanted to share m y concerns.


