PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-w32y-htvv
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-3756
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
Please DO ensure that unnecessarily burdensom e requirem ents are put into place for AI. We NEED to ham per private sector AI
innovation in order to protect art and artists. The current lack of regulation has significant ethical and safety im plications for AI. We need
to ban the m ost problem atic uses of AI, such as AI that distorts hum an behavior or m anipulates people. AI also poses high risk to public
safety & hum an rights, such as AI used in critical infrastructure, credit checks, crim inal justice, and even Internet search engine results
which give entirely incorrect and even dangerous responses. AI has serious ethical issues, like privacy breaches, bias, and decision-
m aking that cannot be challenged since no actual person is involved. Also, large-scale AI training processes consum e vast am ounts of
water and energy and create enorm ous environm ental concerns and problem s. Finally, and perhaps worst of all, the whole concept of AI
relies on theft. Theft is illegal! Why would our country want to encourage anything illegal! AI art relies on, and is created by, scraping
copyrighted m aterial from  the Internet for content. The original artists & creators receive zero com pensation for this. If large com panies
are able to use the plagiarism  m achine known as AI, they will choose not to em ploy hum ans to do artistic work any longer, putting so
m any people out of work. It is stealing art and it is stealing artists' jobs. THEFT IS ILLEGAL! Instead of developing plans and regulations
in support of AI, the governm ent needs to strengthen copyright protections for artists and apply those protections to prevent AI from
carrying out such harm ful theft on such a m assive scale. Say no to AI!!!!!


