PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 89-s565-49zw
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1718
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Janice 
Kirkpatrick  
General Comment
Good evening,
I am  an artist (am ongst other things) and com e from  an artist fam ily. I learned through a fellow researcher George Webb, on X (he is a
fam ous intellectual citizen journalist) about Suchir Balaji and that he was killed (not a suicide) due to the fact that he was a New York
Tim es whistleblower working on Open Ai and was about to be interviewed by Associated Press the night before he was found dead in his
apartm ent. He was going to say and show on a special hard-drive that went m issing, that Ai was "scraping" ie using everything it could get
its robotic hands on to exploit itself as fine and dandy. 
Well, this just didnt sit well with us and we decided to get involved, not only in trying to find Justice for Suchir, but also to speak out
against Ai and its scraping the web of everything and everyone, in the nam e of "learning".
I am  aware that algorithm s and cookies track us, but this goes deeper in that copyright laws are being broken. This is a very big deal and
goes against privacy laws am ongst other things. I m yself have been the victim  of intellectual property theft, which I am  powerless at the
m om ent to do anything about because of m y finances and also just not knowing where to begin.
Us little people who are robbed by the big guys who think they can just take whatever they want and get away with it, will see their day in
court. One way or another Justice will prevail, because God is watching all of us, not just technology and Ai.
I pray that you science guys can hear us and just know that our work is ours and Bill Gates, his cronies, all the billions of dollars going into
this project are just parasiting off the creatives, and its just not OK with us.
Thank Q for your tim e,
Janice Meyer Kirkpatrick
www.janicem eyerkirkpatrick.com  


