PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-qvsk-yrng
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-2927
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: E J Werth
General Comment
See attached file(s)
Attachments
Letter to WH about AI


To Whom It May Concern at the Federal Register, regarding The White House’s Executive Order 
issued on February 25th, 2025 titled “Public Comment Invited on Artificial Intelligence Action Plan”:
As a full stack software engineer with 15 years professional experience in the corporate world, I have 
broad technical experience to meaningfully add to this conversation. For context, I work on multiple 
applications with large datasets that transfer, submit, and manage data between financial institutions. 
My job involves risk analysis and implementation of structures that handle large clusters of data, 
including PHI.
AI – including LLM’s and procedural AI – undeniably pose the possibility of exponential boons in 
productivity and advancements in risk analysis and pattern recognition. It also comes with many risks, 
especially with the rate it is changing. The biggest public deterrent with what has become colloquially 
termed as “AI” in the tech world is the unhindered training of LLM’s using harvested data. Much of the
public do not know how their data is being used and have no control over it after it is transferred or 
uploaded. There is data that users uploaded decades ago – before “modern AI” became what it is – that 
is now being used by some companies to train models without the explicit permission of users who 
uploaded that data (such as social media companies). This has created an inherent (and understandable)
distrust of AI, and has resulted in legal challenges to how data is used. This comes with a high cost – 
both in trust of entities using data and financially.
I understand the necessity to be at the forefront of technology for defensive purposes. There are large 
datasets of information that the US has harvested across various government entities – known and 
unknown to the public. With data breaches being as common as they are it is critical we protect that 
data from private parties – including US companies. No company is perfect – frequently private 
institutions are very imperfect in ways for one purpose – saving money. It is vital that we protect the 
ability of US citizens to operate without government intervention into their daily lives. We must protect
data that US citizens have uploaded into or transferred across government servers. 
Loaning our citizens’ data to private entities comes with inherently high risk.  AI models are in still their
infancy (perhaps toddlers is a better term). There is only growth from here – at an exponential pace. It 
is important that we pass meaningful legislation now so that we set rules in place to prevent private 
interests and bad actors from monopolizing and selling US citizens data, especially to other bad actors. 
I fear that with data breaches being common across the tech world, using private companies to move 
forward on AI would holds much too high a risk. We should be protecting our citizens data from data 
harvesters and private entities – including public or private US companies.
Therefore, it is my personal and professional opinion that the US Government should act in the best 
interest of its citizens in the following ways:
- Under no circumstances should any branch of the government, contractor of the government, or
government approved entity (3rd party or otherwise) use, sell, or lend data of US Citizens for any
purpose of training AI models. This includes PHI data (SSN’s, collected credit card info from payment
systems, addresses, phone numbers, emails, demographics, location data, etc).
- Under no circumstances should any data uploaded to, transmitted by, or stored on a server controlled
or operated by or at the behest of a US Government agency be used for any purposes to train AI
models. This includes data uploaded to the Library of Congress – such as copy-written songs, writings,
recordings, videos, etc.


I feel the need to specifically note the budgetary “slashing with a chainsaw” happening across the 
federal government. In my professional opinion I cannot under any circumstances recommend the 
executive branch implement an AI Action Plan at this current juncture. The risk is just too high.
Thank you for your time.
Sincerely, 
Thomas “EJ” Werth


