PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-15f3-1znc
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: Web
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-7167
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: G McCorm ack
Address: United States, 
Em ail:  
General Comment
As a published researcher, college level instructor, freelance author, and individual with a deep interest in technology, I have to fully
oppose any action that gives practically com plete and unfettered access to the data of all Am ericans. The action plan speaks to the need
for access to data without the 'burdensom e regulation' of governm ent oversight. In considering the vast wealth of inform ation available on
the internet, unfettered access exem pts com panies from  any standard of privacy for what is accessed. This includes inform ation that was
not shared by the individual in question. For exam ple, revenge pornography and illicit photos of m inors are readily available on the
internet. Given the original response to 'Grok,' the AI introduced to X, LLM program s are succeptiblw to attacks from  directed feeding of
any and all inform ation. Grok was trained to be an ultim ate truth seeking service, and it has already been trained with inform ation based on
publically accessible data indicating potentially harm ful inform ation about Elon Musk and Donald Trum p. Without regulation, a m alevolent
actor could feed an LLM doctored inform ation to m ake a false claim , giving highly m isleading inform ation.
Additionally based on FERPA, HIPAA, and other laws protecting personal inform ation such as grades in school, m edical reasons for
being unable to join the US Draft, and videos/pictures from  past engagem ents that are construed falsely to the public, certain records are
protected. The language in this action plan this far bypasses any and all safeguards to protect sensitive inform ation that could harm  and/or
blackm ail Am erican citizens. 
On a m ore anecdotal note, as som eone who is active in the freelance art com m unity, intellectual property is already being stolen at an
alarm ing rate with no credit given to the original creator. Though I doubt the individuals responsible for developing this plan care in the
slightest above individual property rights or creative licensing, theft is theft. Even ignoring any ethical considerations (of which there are
m any), the potential for harm  by a bad actor in m anipulating and weaponizing AI on that large of a scale is too high. Som e personal data is
m eant to be private, and I can't im agine the backlash that could result from  a bad actor accessing highly classified governm ent files that are
im properly secured, copying them , and sending them  to a foreign agent. It only takes one spy or bad actor to m anipulate the language in
this plan to create a powerful weaponized database of inform ation.
Also, it's literally saying that Am erican citizens will have no guarantee of privacy or confidentiality for their records and inform ation
regardless of if they were the ones to release that inform ation. The cornerstone of Am erica is freedom , and this plan ensures there is no
control over your data, m eaning freedom  to live a private life is stripped away.
This plan will lead to far m ore harm  than good with how it is written.


