PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8a-9t8f-km jf
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-1831
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Name: Eli Plaskett   
Email: 
General Comment
As a professional in the m anufacturing industry whose job is to stay abreast of technology, one thing is clear to m e: AI is not a technology
- it's a m arketing term .
The variety of technologies that have been arbitrarily pushed under the um brella of AI range from  voice-to-text apps using 10-year-old
technology to advanced software that aids in product design or program m ing. In evaluating these technologies, a clear pattern has
em erged in which technologies with narrow focuses (such as predictive m aintenance) can be incredibly useful while technologies with
broad scopes (chat bots like ChatGPT and Gem ini) are absolutely useless.
OpenAI prom ises its technology can do anything because after billions in investm ents they have created a neat toy that can't really do
anything. Can it write a com pelling story? No, readers quickly identify AI stories and feel near universal disdain. Can it do m ath? No, it's
far worse than a 30-year-old calculator at m ath. Frankly, it's far worse than m ost Am ericans at m ath. What about as a search engine?
Recent studies have shown that they are m ore likely to produce incorrect results than correct ones, confidently hallucinating lies that fool
the gullible.
OpenAI began calling its little chatbot an artificial intelligence to evoke the rom ance of fictional stories, but the reality is that if you need to
put som ething in writing and don't care about the quality, ChatGPT will likely produce som ething passable with only a handful of m ajor
errors. Calling it an AI seem ed like a better pitch.
While other technologies that have fallen under the AI um brella as of late can regularly dem onstrate real value to various industries, LLMs
like ChatGPT have shown nothing of real value to the econom y. They have, however, shown the potential to harm  industries that are vital
for Am erica's econom ic dom inance.
Copyright law in the United States has a single clear purpose: encouraging people to m ake art that can m ake m oney. Multiple billion-
dollar industries have erupted from  the robust copyright protections the U.S. offers. If you m ake som ething, you get to decide how it's
distributed, and people need to pay you to distribute or consum e your art. It's a sim ple prem ise that form s the foundation of dozens of
corporations and m illions of careers. Attacking that foundation risks the livelihoods of m illions, but Open AI believes it is entitled to the
unpaid labor of all of hum anity because it is necessary to... let you write an em ail in slightly less tim e? If you happen to be bad at writing
em ails. It can also produce a bad essay if you want to cheat on your hom ework and get caught, I suppose.
The sim ple fact is that LLMs cannot be depended on in producing anything that depends on accuracy. Legal briefs, instructions, articles,
m em os, captions, notes... none of these can depend on LLMs. In fact, the nature of how LLMs are "trained" m akes it im possible for them
to ever be relied on for accuracy. When it com es to art, LLMs steal work belonging to com panies and individuals and produce writing
that the public at large consistently despises. Allowing them  a free pass to ignore copyright law will endanger the incredibly profitable
creative industries to flood the m arket with garbage that no one wants, m aking us less com petitive overall. 
OpenAI, Meta, and Google have consistently dem onstrated that their AIs offer little that anyone wants, and their insistence on their
strategic im portance to the nation is laughable. Actual AI technology has already been providing real benefits to industry and will continue
to do so without OpenAI's ridiculous boondoggle underm ining the com petitiveness of Am erica's creative industries.




