PUBLIC SUBMISSIONAs of: March 21, 2025
Received: March 15, 2025
Status: 
Tracking No. m 8b-35bc-hum w
Com m ents Due: March 15, 2025
Subm ission Type: API
Docket: NSF_FRDOC_0001
Recently Posted NSF Rules and Notices.
Com m ent On: NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479
Request for Inform ation: Developm ent of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan
Docum ent: NSF_FRDOC_0001-DRAFT-9176
Com m ent on FR Doc # 2025-02305
Submitter Information
Nam e: Anonym ous Anonym ous
General Comment
See attached file.
Attachments
Say No to Artificial Intelligence Stealing Jobs


March 15, 2025
From:
Trevor Whipple
Electronics Assembler
Re: National Science F oundation ’s Request for Information on the D evelopment of a n Artificial 
Intelligence (A I) Action Plan
The AI systems made by Bi g Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google t hreaten to 
destroy thousands of American small businesses with their recent demand to create special carve 
outs in copyright law.
AI systems can only be produc ed by first training on work made by people . The work of 
hundreds of thousands of everyda y American creators was taken and fed into these AI systems 
without our consent or any compensati on. They ingest our work, reassemble it, and then sell it 
back to our clients – directly competing with us and cutting us out of the m arketplace.
Now these Bi g Tech companies are asking this administration to create e xceptions and loopholes 
to make this practice of steali ng American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent . They are 
suggesting that if a m achine i ngests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow suddenly 
“fair use”. 
They seem to believe t hat anything and everything on the i nternet – regardless of who owns it – 
should be t heirs for the t aking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to 
rewrite t he law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the oppos ite effect . The purpos e of American copyright law is to protect the 
incentive t o create a nd innovate. 
If we t he American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online w ill be stolen 
by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive t o create? If everyda y Americans create a new 
innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music onl y to have it 
immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will 
we pos sibly make a living doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright 
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday 
Americans without permission, compensation, or transparenc y.
This administration ’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big 
Tech companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective consent, 
so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.


Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the 
incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic value, so 
the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, requiring 
them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI 
generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI 
systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard 
work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright 
law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


