March 14, 2025  
Dr. Arat i Prabhakar  
Director, Office of Science and Technology Policy  
Executive Office of the President  
The White House 
Washington, DC 20500  
RE:  The AI  Trust Foundation's Comments on President Trump's National AI Plan Executive 
Order 14179 
Dear Dr.  Prabhakar,  
On behalf of  The AI Trust Foundation for Beneficial AI , thank you for the opportunity to share 
comments on the Trump Administration's Executive Order 14179—Removing Barriers to American Leadership 
in Artificial Intelligence (AI) . With the global AI market projected to reach $15.7 trillion, strategic action now 
will sustain and grow America's global leadership in AI innovation, governance, and talent.  
The AI Tr ust Foundation for Beneficial AI  
Founded in 202 3, The AI Trust Foundation is the leading independent organization dedicated to 
accelerating AI's beneficial uses . Under the leadership of Chair Emeritus California State Senator Jerry 
McNerney, Ph.D. —mathematician, former U.S. Congressman, and auth or of the landmark AI in Government 
Act— we are the only organization uniting AI innovators across the entire AI ecosystem to speed up the 
path to real -world AI solutions which have a positive impact .   
The AI Tr ust Foundation collaborates with leaders across  industries --  healthcare, energy, national 
security, transportation, education,  and more – to accelerate  AI solutions responsibly and effectively.   
Our powerhouse alliance  includes RedCloud Technology, Box Inc , Microsoft, the Edison Foundation, the 
U.S.-Qatar Business Council (USQBC) , the Cyber Readiness Institute, and a wide  range of institutions
developing America's next generation of AI talent .


Our Unique P latform  
The AI Tr ust Foundation is a unique platform  in the $15.7 trillion global AI market , offering Members:  
•Exclusi ve opportunities to showcase American AI technology
•Unique partnerships with AI pioneers, policymakers,  academic innovators, and entrepreneurs, and
•Useful market insights and access to shape policy  before regulations are written .
Benefici al AI: Shaping the Future for Good  
The AI Tr ust Foundation is working to accelerate real-world AI solutions across industries: 
•Healthcare : AI is enabling earlier disease detection, expediting drug discovery, powering precision
medicine, and extending healthy lifespans.
•Infrastructure : From self -monitoring bridges to optimized traffic, AI is ushering in a more modern,
resilient America.
•Government Services : AI is improving citizen services. From reducing patent backlogs to
providing 24/7 digital assistance, AI can power a responsive and efficient public sector.
•Energy : Smart grid AI is stabilizing power supply, fusion breakthroughs are within reach, and
predictive AI is enhancing climate resilience. Our sustainable energy future is now possible.
•Agriculture : AI and precision farming are sowing the seeds for a productive, profitable agricultural
revolution.
To delive r AI's full benefits, public trust must be the priority and AI must be developed responsibly, with 
strong safeguards. Just as Madison and our Founding Fathers established enduring principles of 
constitutional governance, we need a framework where AI innovation flourishes within structured limits, 
reinforcing democratic values. With public trust, we can unlock AI's full benefits. 
Our Strategic Recommendations for President Trump’s National AI Plan  
We propose thr ee strategic initiatives for immediate collaboration with the Trump Administration to 
accelerate beneficial AI:  
1.Steer  inve stment  in beneficial American AI technologies through an innovative SelectUSA
Industry Partnership
2.Develop American talent  through our National AI Talent Initiative
3.Lead global governance through our Global AI Principles
These t hree complementary pillars —investment, talent, and governance—form a comprehensive strategy to 
secure America's AI leadership, with our SelectUSA Industry Partnership serving as the economic engine to 
fuel innovation across the AI ecosystem. 


1. Driv e Investment in American AI Innovation
The AI Tr ust Foundation seeks designation as a SelectUSA AI Industry Partner  to help America capture 
the $15.7 trillion global AI market opportunity.  Our partnership will:  
•Catalyze new AI investments in American AI  leveraging our strategic alliances, including our
landmark MOU with the U.S.- Qatar Business Council (USQBC) ,
•Showcas e American excellence through our BETTY Awards for Beneficial , Technology,
highlighting breakthrough innovations in healthcare, transportation, government, small business ,
and other industries, and
•Support the Stargate Initiative  by strengthening critical AI infrastructure, bridging AI and energy
ecosystems, and accelerating development of fusion and other clean technologies to secure
America's computational advantage .
2. Build A merica's AI Professional  Advantage
To maint ain global leadership, the U.S. must develop world -class AI professionals . We invite the 
Administration to join our National AI Talent Initiative , coordinating scholarships, curricula, and 
apprenticeships to prepare Americans for AI careers:  
•Prepare  100,000 A I-skilled professionals by 2027 through our network of 35+ educational,
research, and cultural institutions, creating regional AI talent hubs,
•Build specialized AI career pathways connecting universities, community colleges , minority -serving
institutions, and industry partners, and
•Expand our innovative "AI 101" training programs ensuring every American can accessfoundational AI knowledge and professional opportunities in this high-growth sector.
3. American L eadership in Global AI Governance
AI will  only yield its full benefits if the public trusts these technologies.  Inspired by James Madison's 
vision of governance  which balanced innovation with structured safeguards , our Global AI Principles  
initiative presents a unique opportunity to assert U.S. leadership in shaping international AI norms and 
standards to ensure enduring democratic stability. 
By work ing with allies across Europe, Japan, India, the Middle East, and other democracies, we can 
champion a common framework for responsible AI  which strengthens alliances and technological partnerships.  
We recommend the Administration adopt the AI Trust Foundation's Global AI Principles  as the 
foundation for international standards which:  
•Prevent o verregulation  by balancing innovation with responsible safeguards  through smart private -
public partnerships and
•Position the U.S.  as the global authority on AI governance.


Shaping The F uture of AI for Good 
The AI Tr ust Foundation stands ready as your strategic partner to advance American interests, values, and 
global leadership to:  
1.Drive I nvestment in American AI Innovation As a SelectUSA AI Industry Partner, we  will
catalyze investments in American AI, showcase excellence through our BETTY Awards, and
support the Stargate Initiative to secure America's competitive advantage in the $15.7 trillion global
AI market.
2.Build Ame rica's AI Professional Advantage  Our National AI Talent Initiative will prepare
100,000 AI -skilled professionals by 2027, build specialized career pathways across educational
institutions, and expand "AI 101" training programs to ensure all Americans can accessopportunities in this high-growth sector.
3. Lead Global  AI Governance Drawing inspiration from Madison's constitutional vision, our Global
AI Principles establish a framework balancing innovation with responsible safeguards, preventingoverregulation while positioning the U.S. as the global authority on AI governance.
Togeth er, these initiatives will advance America's interests, values, and global leadership in AI while creating 
unprecedented prosperity and opportunity for all Americans. 
We look for ward to working with you to shape the future of AI for good. 
Respec tfully submitted,  
Elizabet h Vella Moeller  
Outside General Counsel, The AI Trust Foundation Contact:   | www.theaitrust.org  
Cc:   The Honor able Jerry McNerney, Ph.D., Chairman Emeritus , California State Senator 
Philip Reiner, Chairman , CEO, Institute for Security & Technology  
Leah Perry, Vice Chair , Vice President of Legal, Chief Privacy Officer, and Global Head of Public 
Policy, Box Inc.  
The Honorable Roxy Ndebumadu, Treasurer , CEO, roxHealth Corp.  
Justin Floyd, Board Member , CEO & Co -Founder, RedCloud Technology  
Joe Lanier, Board Member , Founder, Milestone Strategies  
The Honorable Denise Turner Roth, Board Member , Founder, Roth Consulting , Former 
Administrator of the General Services Administration (GSA)   
Sarah Staley, Board Member , Founder & Chief Strategist, StaleySash  
The Honorable Matthew McGuire, Executive Director , The AI Trust Foundation, Former Executive 
Director of the World Bank 


Appendix:   The AI Trust Foundation's Global AI Principles  
•Global L eadership & Innovation – The U.S. should lead in setting AI governance frameworks
which promote responsible innovation.
•Beneficial  Uses  – AI should enhance human potential and dignity.
•Safeguards  & Security  – AI systems should be designed with safeguards to uphold privacy rights,
adhere to cybersecurity standards, and include human oversight.
•Transpar ency – AI decision- making should be explainable  and accountable.
•Fairness – AI should be impartial and promote equitable opportunities.


