March 13, 2025 
AI Action Pl an 
An: Faisal D’Souza, NCO 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
Submi ed via email to ostp-ai-r ﬁ@nitrd.gov   
Re: AI Action Plan 
Dear Mr.  D’Souza: 
The Allen Institute for Arti ﬁcial Intelligence (Ai2) appreciates the opportunity to provide comments in 
response to the Request for Information (RFI) on the Development of an Arti ﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action 
Plan (90 FR 9088). Ai2 is a nonpro ﬁt AI institute founded in 2014 by the late Paul Allen. As the organization’s 
CEO, I am proud to lead a team of America’s brightest AI researchers and engineers in developing 
foundational AI research and innovation to deliver real-world impact through large-scale open models, 
data, algorithms, and more. Our most recent achievements include:  
● Tülu 3 405B, the ﬁrst application of fully open post-training recipes to the largest open-weight
models, surpassing the performance of DeepSeek V3.
● OLMo 2, a leading language model comparable to the best open-weight models like Meta’s Llama
3. 1 and equaling the performance of Alibaba’s Qwen 2.5, yet singular in sharing all underlying
data and code to spur innovation and the next generation of AI systems.
● OLMoE, a state-of-the-art mixture-of-experts model now available as an iPhone app for private,
local usage and a fully open codebase for on-device deployment.
● Molmo, a state-of-the-art vision language model surpassing Meta’s Llama 3.2 Vision and  Alibaba’s
Qwen 2 VL performance on image understanding.
These achievements are built on the free and open sharing of data, models, and technical approaches, 
and show what is possible through innovation in an open ecosystem.  
At Ai2, we believe that stronger national AI capabilities depend on a wide range of competing open models. 
America has a head start on AI, but we cannot outpace and out-innovate the world without an open 
ecosystem of AI research and development spanning industry, academia, and philanthropy. There is a clear 
need for increased investment in America’s world-class research institutions and policymaking to enable 
their eorts to solidify the nation’s position as the leader in AI.  
2157 N Northlake Way #110  t: 206 548 5600 info@allenai.org  
Sea le W A 98020 www.allenai. org 
1 


 
 
Recommendations 
We o er the following recommendations in response to the RFI: 
1. Invest in a truly open ecosystem of innovation  on American soil by funding multiple types of 
institutions, fostering cross-domain collaboration and sharing of essential AI development 
artifacts (e.g. models, data, code, and more), and building the strongest AI in the U.S. for the 
beneﬁt of Americans. 
2. Eliminate unnecessarily burdensome requirements by steering regulatory bodies away from 
interventions that unintentionally hamper progress on developing AI to enable Americans to thrive. 
 
Innovation through an open ecosystem 
The recent boom in AI progress and its economic bene ﬁts builds almost entirely on open  developments 
coming out of public companies, universities, startups, and non-pro ﬁts. The U.S. has dominated this space 
due to longstanding investment in an ecosystem that prioritizes fundamental progress on general 
technologies and sharing them well before any proﬁtability. 
 
Only in the last few years has AI become an intense focus of some of the world’s largest companies. 
Competitive pressures have shifted investment away from fundamental AI research to that of products. 
These pressures have also reduced sharing of information to prevent competitors from catching up. The 
success of AI is built on open innovations, and we need to reprioritize openness if we want the next 
generation of AI breakthroughs to continue to happen on American soil .  
 
Fostering fundamental developments is a long-term project, but we’re seeing substantial adoption of early 
open standards in AI. Just a few weeks ago, the Chinese company DeepSeek AI released an AI model that 
caught the Western world by surprise. There are countless innovations in open models from China that 
American companies are now using. With the correct investments in infrastructure and talent that 
prioritize open  innovation, the U.S. can win this vector of in ﬂuence and be the platform of future progress.  
 
As AI becomes more powerful and political, there can be new forms of national security risk to using 
models that are inﬂuenced by foreign governments. The American model of the internet, prioritizing 
openness and freedom, will make it nearly impossible to stop Americans from using open AI models from 
other nations. The cost of training leading AI models is falling rapidly, as seen with DeepSeek V3, so many 
will be able to train strong models. We should invest in coalitions within the U.S. that can openly make 
leading models that the entire world relies upon – building a platform for values and innovation for the 
years to come.  
Strategic and robust investment in open models and interfaces allows America’s brightest innovators to 
improve, customize, and strengthen them, while promoting our national security. An American 
open-source AI ecosystem is one that simultaneously builds strong capabilities and defenses by working 
together across many stakeholders to collaboratively advance the state of the art of AI. Private, for-proﬁt 
interests cannot be relied upon for a crucial technology to America’s security. By investing in the open 
ecosystem, we keep the best AI talent in the U.S., where Americans beneﬁt from the economic multiplier of 
the ecosystem’s e ects. 
2 


 
 
 
Eliminate unnecessarily burdensome requirements  
We encourage the administration to keep a careful focus on regulations that could unintentionally hamper 
the progress of open innovation in AI. AI is a rapidly evolving technology and the best use cases for AI are 
only just now starting to come into focus. Over-regulating AI now means we may never see those fully 
optimized AI use cases emerge in America. The best way to address potential concerns about an emerging 
technology is not regulation, but innovation and competition. Top-down regulation could slow progress 
because it locks in static assumptions about how AI should develop. In AI, these assumptions are quickly 
overtaken by the dynamism of reality. As a result, heavy-handed government intervention may only ensure 
that AI upsides are never realized. Premature regulation may stiﬂe the most bene ﬁcial use cases, or worse, 
force domestic AI on to permanently ine icient developmental paths. In keeping with the American 
tradition, open innovation and market-driven solutions are the most e ective way to ﬁnd the right balance 
between protection and creation. Researchers, industry, and the American public need time to shape AI’s 
evolution together. Overly restrictive regulations will put American AI at a strategic disadvantage to other 
countries like China that take a more permissive approach. The future of continued U.S. leadership in AI 
depends on innovation at scale  -- and America’s openness is the critical edge it has over global competitors 
in Europe and Asia. 
 
At Ai2, we prioritize building truly  open AI systems. These state-of-the-art systems expose every part of 
the code, data, and model weights available along with rich documentation. We believe that the only way 
to foster the long-term growth of the ecosystem is to make every single piece of the AI process available to 
new entrants who will innovate in ways no single company or organization or country acting alone can 
achieve.  
 AI is developing and improving at an astounding pace. We believe our recommendations allow for the 
ﬂourishing of AI innovation within the administration’s stated priorities. I appreciate the opportunity to 
share Ai2’s thoughts and extend an o er to explore further.  
 
Regards,  
 
 
Ali Farhadi, CEO 
The Allen Institute for Arti ﬁcial Intelligence 
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary 
or con ﬁdential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the 
AI Action Plan and associated documents without a ribution. 
 
 
 
 
3 


