March 13, 2025  
Mr. Michael Kratsios  
Director, Office of Science and Technology Policy  
The White House  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building  
1650 Pennsylvania Avenue , NW  
Washington, DC 20504  
RE: Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National 
Coordination Office (NCO), National Science Foundation (NSF) on behalf of the White House Office 
of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP)  Request for Information  on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (“P lan”)  Docket Number 2025 -02305.  
Mr. Kratsios:  
The American Institute of CPAs (AICPA) is pleased to provide information to the NITRD/NCO, NSF 
and OSTP as part of the multi -agency effort to develop an AI Action Plan (“Plan”) as ordered by 
Executive Order issued on January 23, 2025. We appreciate the opportunity to engage in ongoing 
dialogue and wish to highlight that we are available as a resource through the entire development 
of the Plan . The comments submitted herein seek to inform the government’s understanding of 
appropriate third -party  assurance , and to provide more specified feedback on  policy related to  
assurance  over AI systems  as development of the Plan progresses . 
Independent Third -Party Assurance  
Independent third -party assurance is a robust  process through which  an independent1 practitioner 
performs procedures and obtains evidence in order to issue a report that includes an opinion or 
conclusion about the subject matter, or about an entity’s statement or assertion regarding that 
subject matter, which enhances the degree of confi dence for decision -makers relying on the 
subject matter of the engagement.  This process has been applied through the audits of  financial  
statements of private and public companies for nearly a century and  serves as a cornerstone of 
trust in the capital markets . Reputable assurance services are performed based on the use of 
professional standards  (e.g. the AICPA attestation standards2) which  are developed by accredited 
bodies and  subject the standards to due process procedures that are transparent, open to the 
public, and allow for public feedback through thoughtful, reasoned, and timely communications.  
The NITRD/NCO , NSF  request for information specifically raises  the importance of  “explainability 
and assurance of AI model outputs, cybersecurity, data privacy and security throughout the 
lifecycle of AI system development and deployment.” We believe that independent third -party 
assurance of AI systems will become increasingly relevant as market participants seek confidence 
in those systems.  Independent assurance can provide that confidence as well as support 
1 A party is independent from an entity if it complies with an independence standard that : a.) provides a 
framework to evaluate and address the significant threats to objectivity and impartiality that may reasonably 
arise in the conduct of the engagement; and  b.) is issued by a nationally -recognized professional or standard -
setting body or applicable regulator in the United States of America.   AICPA Professional Standards  discuss 
independence in both fact and appearance.  
2 The AICPA attestation standards are  codified in the  AICPA  Professional Standards  


organizations' efforts to demonstrate compliance with emerging and evolving domestic and global 
frameworks.  This can be accomplished  in a way that reduces conflicts of interest and provides 
more confidence  than is achievable through self -certifications . These objectives can be achieved 
using the framework already in place for assurance services which provides consistency in 
performance by those meeting the requirements  of licensure  (licensed CPAs and CPA firms ). 
 
Advantages of Assurance  Services Performed by Licensed CPAs and CPA Firms  
The expertise necessary to provide assurance services involves both (1) the skill to apply 
appropriate procedures to the information and report on them and (2) adequate knowledge of the 
subject matter and criteria used to measure or evaluate it. Including CPAs in a third -party 
assurance program helps ensure that assurance engagements are p erformed by highly qualified 
and experienced practitioners  using  high -quality standards of practice , and subject to appropriate 
regulation . 
 
CPAs have been providing assurance services on financial information for over a century. Since 
CPAs have extensive experience in gaining an understanding of a company’s business processes 
and assessing and responding to risk, in addition to  expertise in evaluating a company’s internal 
systems and processes for collecting, measuring, analyzing, and reporting information , CPAs have  
been called upon to broaden their assurance services beyond audits of financial statements. 
Accordingly, CPAs have decades of exp erience performing  assurance  engagements on a wide 
variety of subject matters , including many related to information technology . Some notable 
example s include  controls relevant to financial reporting, the security, availability and processing 
integrity of systems, cybersecurity, data and information privacy, eXtensible business reporting 
language (XBRL), blockchain and digital assets,  and more recently  AI.   
 
When such services are performed by a licensed CPA or CPA firm, the engagements are governed 
by the following requirements of CPA licensure that are designed to protect the public interest:  
 
• Commitment to quality management  and  professional and ethical standards including 
integrity, objectivity and independence. Licensed  CPAs and CPA firms are required to 
follow quality management standards to help ensure that they meet accepted professional 
standards when performing assurance engagements. These standards require that CPAs 
establish a quality management system and participate in a quality management  program 
where  their quality systems and work products are reviewed every three years by an 
indep endent outside party. AICPA members are also required to follow the AICPA Code of 
Professional Conduct  which has been adopted by virtually every state board of 
accountancy across the country . Among other things, the Code  requires CPAs to be 
objective, act with integrity, have no conflicts of interest, not subordinate their judgment to 
others, be competent, and comply with applicable standards and requirements.  
• Adherence to recognized standards. The public accounting profession has decades of 
experience in developing methodologies that enable  CPAs to apply the auditing and 
attestation standards of  the AICPA Auditing Standards Board , in addition to other 
recognized professional standards .3 CPAs are required to adhere to accepted professional 
standards when executing engagements , and the AICPA monitors adherence to the 
 
3 E.G. Government Auditing Standards, issued by the Comptroller General of the United States, which 
incorporate and are based on the auditing standards  of the AICPA Auditing Standards Board (ASB) , or public 
company auditing standards, issued by the Public Company A ccounting  Oversight Board (PCAOB).  


performance of engagements that apply their standards for assurance. This system and 
structure bring s consistency and rigor to engagement performance.   
• Use of specialists.  Public accounting firms and practicing CPAs are also required under 
their professional standards to have the appropriate competence and capabilities including 
sufficient knowledge of the subject matter, and to have access to specialists, if necessary, 
with expertise in the engagement’s subject matter, if such expertise is not available in -
house. These specialists work together with CPAs, who are experts in bringing trust and 
confidence to reported information  through meaningful assurance  processes. CPAs have a 
long history of experience incorporating those specialists as part of engagement planning 
and execution. This can be seen, for example, in SOC 2® engagements addressing controls 
relevant to security, availability, processing integrity, confidentiality or privacy (e.g., 
computer science  and security specialists) and financial statement audit engagements 
(e.g., actuarial services or fair value specialists).  
 
In the case of AI assurance, CPA assurance services would be performed under the AICPA 
attestation standards . The AICPA attestation standards include performance standards  to ensure 
that engagements are consistently performed by all practitioners. This includes planning the 
engagement,  perform ing the engagement,  the sufficiency and appropriateness of evidence to be 
obtained, materiality levels (both quantitative and qualitative) to be used in evaluating results and 
drawing conclusions, and the documentation that practitioners are expected to maintain .  
Furthermore, reporting standards  included in the AICPA attestation standards help ensure that 
the results of the third -party assurance engagements are reported clearly and consistently , and 
users can easily understand the findings and conclusions of the practitioner.  
 
Another  key element  of the AICPA attestation standards is an emphasis on using appropriate  
criteria to measure the subject matter. This is referenced in both the performance standards when 
evaluating the subject matter , and in the reporting standards when communicating the results of 
that evaluation. When the subject matter relates to artificial intelligence , CPAs may look to 
frameworks such as the NIST AI RFM, or future NIST frameworks (or other available and widely 
accepted frameworks  such as those developed internationally ) when identifying suitable criteria.   
 
In order to use a framework  as criteria, professional standards require the CPA to evaluate whether 
the framework can serve as  suitable criteria. According to the AICPA attestation standards, 
suitable criteria have all of the following characteristics:  
 
• Relevance . Criteria are relevant to the subject matter.  
• Objectivity . Criteria are free from bias.  
• Measurability . Criteria permit reasonably consistent measurements, qualitative or 
quantitative, of subject matter.  
• Completeness . Criteria are complete when the subject matter prepared in accordance 
with them does not omit relevant factors that could reasonably be expected to affect 
decisions of the intended users made on the basis of that subject matter.  
 
Suitable criteria allow for consistent evaluation of the subject matter and are an important part of 
any assurance program. We believe that these characteristics are important when developing any 
framework that may be used to assess an entity’s efforts related to artificial intelligence . 
 
All AICPA standards, including the AICPA attestation standards, have been subjected to due 
process procedures including a transparent, public, and reasoned process. These standards are 


also publicly available at n o cost, which allows users t o evaluate the practitioner’s report against 
the requirements of the standards.  
AICPA standards can easily be incorporated int o a third-party assurance program by reference. 
Doing s o helps t o ensure that the program incorporates the elements of an effective program in an 
efficient manne r (that is, without having to create and maintain those elements themselves ). We 
believe leveraging existing high-quality assurance standards, such as the AIC PA attestation 
standards, togethe r with the addition al rigor ous requirements of CPA licensure, provides a 
mechanism for reliable third-party assurance. 
In Closing 
CPAs play a crucial role in providing reliable third-party assurance t o enhance trust and confidence 
in many subject matters beyond the audit of financi al statements , including assurance ove r AI. As 
Plan developers continue t o engage stakeholders, we believe that technic al experts among the 
CPA profession can provide valuable insight regarding the impact of vari ous policies proposed in 
relation t o the Plan. Through our longstanding history and expertise in assurance and standard 
setting, the AIC PA and the C PA profession are prepared t o bring our robust knowledge and unique 
skillset t o Plan developers as needed.  We would be happy t o advise and partne r with you in 
building a program that considers the key foundational elements and complexities that are 
essenti al to consider in the development and execution of a meaningful assurance framework. 
We appreciate the opportunity to provide information and look forward to future engagement. If you 
have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact Carrie Kostelec, the AICPA’s Senior Manager 
for SOC and Related Services or Kate Kiley, Director – Congressional and Political Affairs .  
******************* 
The AICPA is the world’s largest member association representing the CPA profession, with more 
than 431,000 members in the United States and worldwide, and a history of serving the public 
interest since 1887. AICPA members represent many areas of practice, including business and 
industry, public practice, government, education, and consulting. The AICPA sets ethical 
standards for its members and U.S. auditing and attestation standards for private companies, not-
for-profit organizations, and federal, state and local governments. It develops and grades the 
Uniform CPA Examination, offers specialized credentials, builds the pipeline of future talent, and 
drives professional competency development to advance the vitality, and quality of the profession.  
Respectfully, 
Susan S. Coffey, CPA, CGMA  
Chief Executive Officer – Public Accounting  


