 
Dun and Bradstreet Number: 04 -173 -3197  
Unique Entity ID: MCN6J5L6M3T4  
Tax Identification Number (TIN): 25 -0965219 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business- proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be 
reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. Notice of Trademark: “American Institutes for Research” and “AIR” are registered trademarks. All other brand, product, or company names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective 
owners. Copyright © 2025 American Institutes for Research ®. All rights reserved.  
American Institutes for Research ® 
 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
 
RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR INFORMATION  
 
In Response to Request for Information  
March 15, 2025  
Submitted to:  
Faisal D’Souza, NCO  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD)  
National Coordination Office (NCO)  
National Science Foundation 
2415 Eisenhower  
Avenue, Alexandria, VA 22314  
Email: ostp -ai-rfi@nitrd.gov   
Submitted by:  
American Institutes for Research® 
Technical Contact:  
Amber Bloomfield  
1400 Crystal Drive, Floor 10  
Arlington, VA 22202  
Email: abloomfield@air.org   Contractual Contact:  
Celinett Rodriguez  
1400 Crystal Drive, Floor 10  
Arlington, VA 22202  
Email: AIRproposals@air.org   
 

 
2 National Science Foundation Office of Science and 
Technology Policy (NSF OSTP): Suggestions for P olicy 
Priorities in the Development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence 
(AI) Action Plan  
Our team of experts —data scientists , researchers , and technical assistance consultants —
at the American Institutes for Research ® (AIR® ) are pleased to have the opportunity to 
provide input to the National Science Foundation Office of Science and Technology Policy 
(NSF OSTP) on policies that will enhance America’s AI dominance on the world stage. The 
suggestions in this response center  on several  key ideas : (1)  AI policy frameworks should 
encourage innovation and competition ; (2) America should be a leader in  AI for education ; 
and (3) Small businesses need support to thrive in the age of AI.  
1. AI policy frameworks should encourage innovation and competition.  
AI policy frameworks play a crucial role in shaping the development and deployment of 
general -purpose AI systems across diverse sectors. These frameworks should be designed 
to foster innovation and competition, enabling the development of AI systems that c an 
perform a wide range of tasks and adapt to various applications in ﬁelds such as health  
care, ﬁnance, transportation, and manufacturing. By promoting a dynamic and competitive 
AI landscape, these policies can drive economic growth and position the U nited States  as a 
leader in the global AI market.  
Regulations that are not aligned with the pace of technological development, or impose excessive compliance burdens, can create barriers to entry and discourage investment 
(European Commission, 2021) . At the same time, e thical considerations are necessary in 
the development and deployment of responsible AI. AI systems can  inﬂuence decision  
making across various domains and pose a risk to personal data .  
1.1. Regulations are necessary, but overly broad regulations can stiﬂe 
innovation.  
I. The velocity of innovation can be stiﬂed.  Overly broad AI regulations can create  a 
"chilling effect" that discourages businesses from exploring novel applications due 
to fear of noncompliance and penalties  (Aghion et al. , 2023). This can also lead to a 
"regulatory lag" where rules become obsolete or ill -suited to the rapidly evolving 
technology (Mittelstadt, 2019) . In addition, regulatory costs disproportionately 

 
3 burden smaller ﬁrms, hindering their ability to compete with larger corporations and 
potentially stiﬂing innovation and competition  (Kaya, 2021) . Finally, the 
decentralized nature of open -source development presents challenges in ensuring 
adherence to regulatory standards (Franke et al., 2024) .  
II. Variations in regulatory frameworks can  impede algorithmic fairness.  AI models 
require large datasets to achieve optimal performance. Restrictions on data collection and usage can hinder model development (Wachter  et al. , 2017). Where 
restrictions limit  data diversity , this  exacerbate s bias and impede s algorithmic 
fairness  in AI models  and may produce biased or discriminatory outcomes (Bartlett  
et al. , 2022). Variations in data privacy laws and other regulations create challenges 
for businesses operating ac ross borders , hindering the development of AI solutions 
that rely on data from multiple sources (Bakare  et al., 2024). 
III. The Impact of Regulatory Uncertainty on Investment and Long -Term Planning: 
Ambiguity in regulatory frameworks deters venture capital and private equity 
investment in AI startups. Investors may hesitate to commit funds to projects with 
uncertain regulatory outcomes (Challoumis, 2023) . Unpredictable regulations also 
interfere with the development of long -term AI strategies. Businesses require a 
stable regulatory environment to plan investments and research initiatives (Rakha, 
2023)  and may  relocate to jurisdi ctions with less stringent regulations. Skilled AI 
professionals and investment funds may seek out locations with less restrictive 
regulations (Zwetsloot et al., 2021) . 
1.2 We believe that balanced and evolving AI policy frameworks  can 
encourage innovation .  
We believe that balanced and evolving AI policy frameworks are essential for encouraging 
innovation and competition within the AI landscape.  Such frameworks should provide a 
clear and predictable regulatory environment while allowing for ﬂexibility and adaptation to 
the rapid pace of technological change.  By striking this balance, AI policy frameworks can 
foster a thriving AI ecosystem that encourages the development of groundbreaking 
technologies while ensuring responsible and ethical AI development.   
I. Dynamic, Risk- Based Approach:  A dynamic, risk -based approach to AI regulation 
is necessary ( National Institute of Standards and Technology [ NIST ], 2023). 
Regulations should adapt to the rapid pace of technological development and focus 
on mitigating genuine risks, rather than imposing unnecessary burdens.  

 
4 II. International Cooperation:  International cooperation is crucial to harmoniz ing 
regulatory standards. Consistent regulations across jurisdictions can reduce 
barriers to cross -border collaboration and market expansion.  
III. Sandboxes and Controlled Environments:  Regulatory sandboxes and controlled 
environments can foster innovation while maintaining data security. These spaces 
allow businesses to test and develop AI applications in a controlled setting, 
promoting experimentation and learning.  
IV. Balance Between Innovation and Ethical Responsibility:  Regulations should 
strike a balance between promoting responsible AI development and avoiding stiﬂing innovation (European Commission, 2021) . This requires careful 
consideration of the potential beneﬁts and risks of AI applications.  
1.3 Flexibility, responsiveness and communication will be key.  
To ensure that AI policies  are not  too burdensome , the government can establish feedback 
channels across government offices that allow stakeholder groups to weigh in on how policy is playing out in different sectors . Channels that connect with businesses, 
academia, and state education departments are a few examples of potential 
communication pathways. These platforms can  also serve as clearinghouses for AI -related 
discussions, updates, and knowledge sharing, ensuring that AI policies  are effectively 
communi cated and widely adopted. Allowing for user  feedback and providing regular 
updates will  keep AI stakeholders informed and engaged , ensuring that AI policies and 
programs are responsive to the needs of the American AI community.  
2. America should be a leader in AI for education.   
2.1 AI can support improvements in teaching and learning . 
A major sector of American society that has the potential to be drastically improved through the continued development and implementation of AI is education. T he ability of AI 
to analyze vast amounts of data and generate insights offers unprecedented opportunities 
for enhancing education, enabling educators to become more effective in their roles and 
signiﬁcantly enhance student outcomes.  The interaction between AI and education is two -
fold. First, AI -based technologies are powerful tools that can be used to improve several 
aspects of K –12 and postsecondary education for students, teachers, administrators, and 
staff (Chen et al., 2020). Second, given the rapid integration of AI in career paths related to 
business, STEM, health  care, law, and transportation, just to name a few, ensuring that 
students are equipped with the proper skills and knowledge related to AI is important for maintaining a thriving American workforce (OpenAI,  2025).  

 
5 Investment in research and development in key areas for improving education is critical to 
harness this potential. Some of the key promises of AI that merit investment include  the 
following : 
I. Automating Routine Activities.  One of the most signiﬁcant promises of AI in 
education is the potential automation of routine tasks, freeing up valuable time for 
educators to focus on more critical aspects of teaching and learning. For instance, 
AI holds potential to handle laborious a dministrative duties for teachers and 
administrators such as attendance tracking and scheduling classes. Automated grading systems can alleviate teacher time  and are even beginning to assess written 
assignments using natural l anguage processing algorithms, providing instant 
feedback to students and reducing the workload on teachers. Intelligent systems also can curate and organize relevant instructional materials, which not only saves 
time but also can promote instruction  consistency and quality. Moreover, by 
analyzing trends in enrollment, retention, and student performance, AI can help administrators make informed decisions about resource allocation and policy 
implementation. A data -driven approach enabled by AI  may help educa tion systems 
to optimize their operations and better serve their students.  
II. Supporting Educator Professional Development.  AI offers enormous potential to 
improve educator professional development. For example, rigorous research has 
demonstrated positive impacts to instruction when teachers can rehearse their 
skills using mixed -reality simulated classrooms (Garrett et al.,  2024). A fully  
automated AI -powered classroom would make such simulations ﬂexible , scalable,  
and  able to support development of teachers nationwide. Also, intelligent systems 
can analyze teacher performance data,  providing insights into areas for 
improvement and suggesting targeted professional development opportunities. For example, as part of the Classroom Automated Feedback Environment (CAFE) 
project  at AIR , Generative AI (GenAI) is used to derive metrics like  percentage  of on -
topic speech  and instances of respectful language from classroom video (Adams , 
2024). This allows teachers to make  data -driven decisions about how to improve 
their practice.  
III. Enhancing Student Engagement.  Engaging students in the learning process is a 
perennial challenge for educators and is an important issue given the relationship between student engagement and achievement. AI can play a pivotal role in addressing this challenge by providing interactive and immersive learning 
experiences. For example, AI can facilitate the creation of gamiﬁed learning 
environments, where educational content is presented in a game -like format and 

 
6 incorporates elements such as rewards, challenges, and progress tracking. By 
leveraging the principles of game design to motivate and engage students, AI -
powered gamiﬁcation can make  learning enjoyable and effective.  
2.2 The Increasing Need for AI Education . 
As AI continues to revolutionize various sectors, the need for comprehensive instruction on AI-related topics has never been more pressing. Preparing students to become proﬁcient AI 
users —and in some cases, developers —is essential for ensuring our country will be ready 
to lead in the modern workforce.  
I. Instructing Students as AI Users.  To foster a generation of technologically savvy 
individuals, schools need to integrate AI education and AI literacy into their curricula. Introducing students to AI concepts, applications, and safety 
considerations will help them understand and navigate t he complexities of the 
technology. By doing so, students will not only become competent AI users but also 
critical thinkers who can evaluate how to most effectively use AI.  
II. Developing Student Computational and Coding Skills.  A strong foundation in 
computational thinking and coding is vital for students aspiring to become AI developers. AI education can be introduced early to young children by integrating 
engaging, unplugged activities into English language arts instructio n. As they move 
through their primary and secondary education, st udents at all schools should be 
able to learn about programming languages, algorithms, and data analysis, providing them with the tools they nee d to create and innovate with AI.  
III. Supporting Teachers in AI Instruction.  Teachers play a pivotal role in delivering AI 
education and must be adequately prepared to do so . There is a need for 
professional development programs focused on AI literacy and pedagogy so that  
educators can  effectively teach AI- related topics. Ensuring teachers are familiar 
with and comfortable using AI technology  creates the necessary conditions for 
students to learn about  and engage with AI tools and concepts.  
2.3 While there is great potential for AI in education, there is signiﬁcant 
reticence and resistance.  
AI-based technologies can be leveraged in education to improve student learning and 
enhance efficiencies associated with student instruction and institutional operations. As it 
relates to student learning, AI -based technologies can provide students with au tomated 
instruction, personalized feedback, and customized learning paths (Maghsudi et al., 2021). 
Such technologies have been effective at improving student learning outcomes across 
disciplines and education levels  ranging from K –12 to graduate programs (Bhutoria, 2022; 

 
7 Kılıç, 2024). Despite these applications, there is signiﬁcant hesitancy, and even resistance, 
among key stakeholders (e.g. , students, faculty, and administrators) regarding the use of AI 
in educatio n. 
I. Addressing the  Potential for Harm. A t the K –12 level, only 6% of educators view AI 
as being more beneﬁcial than harmful, while 25% of educators view AI as being 
more harmful than beneﬁcial, and 32% of educators view AI as being equally 
beneﬁcial and harmful. Among perceived harmful  factors are concerns related to 
privacy and security, the potential of AI -based tools to increase the frequency of 
academic dishonesty (e.g. , plagiarism), and the possibility of the teacher –student 
relationship being displaced by AI (Weiner  et al. , 2024). This latter point includes 
concerns that educator jobs may be threatened by AI, despite evidence suggesting 
that AI is a supplement to instruction rather than a replacement  (Chan & Tsi, 2024) . 
There is also a general lack of knowledge and preparedness among educators and 
administrators regarding the effective use of AI in education. Speciﬁcally, only 25% of education schools integrate training on how AI can be leveraged to support 
teaching. This correlates w ith the ﬁnding tha t only 10% of college instructors feel 
comfortable using  AI for education (Weiner  et al., 2024).    
II. Keeping Pace with the Rest of the World. These trends are concerning when 
comparing the use and perspectives of AI between American students and 
educators to those in other countries including Australia, Brazil, Saudi Arabia, South 
Africa, and the United Arab Emirates. Speciﬁcally, as compared t o educators across 
the globe, a lower percentage of American educators believe that AI has the power 
to improve student learning, whereas a higher percentage of American educators 
believe that the use of AI is uneth ical. These perspectives parallel student use of AI, 
in which a signiﬁcantly lower number of American students identify themselves as frequent AI users as compared to students in other countries. Similarly, American 
students are less likely to understand how AI can be leveraged to improve their own learning Anthology,  2024).  To maintain a competitive edge with other countries in 
terms of education and student success, there is an urgent need for educators and academic leaders to understand the value of AI- based education technologies and 
be properly trained on their uses.  
III. Competing in the Educational Technology Industry . In addition to the direct 
impact on student success, American investment  in AI -based education 
technologies will generate signiﬁcant positive  economic beneﬁts. At present, the 
U.S. education technology (EdTech) industry is worth $42 billion;  however , North 
America represents only 37% of the global EdTech market, indicating the potential 
for growth ( Garg, 2024; U.S. Department of Commerce, n.d.). Further, the global 

 
8 EdTech market is expected to grow to more than  $800 billion by 2033 ( market.us, 
2024). While American companies will likely be a major part of this growth, 
resistance among educators to technologies such as AI, along with the associated 
implementation costs, have been identiﬁed as signiﬁcant  challenges to growth and 
expansion ( Garg, 2024).   
2.4. Addressing obstacles to American leadership in AI for education  requires 
intentional collaboration between ﬁelds.  
There are several steps that must be taken to enhance the use of AI at American academic institutions and ensure a thriving American EdTech industry. Given that educators and 
academic leaders will play a central role in such efforts, it is crucial that they  appreciate 
that AI serves as a beneﬁcial tool and not as a threat.  
I. Getting Teacher Buy -In. Teacher buy -in is an established mediator for ensuring AI 
effectiveness in improving student learning (Lin, 2022).  Funding the development of 
training programs that promote AI literacy, describe the history of AI in education, 
and dispel misconceptions about AI’s use  can help achieve this goal . Further, there 
should be  support provided for outreach and facilitation efforts between 
organizations that offer such programs, such as AIR, and academic institutions. In 
addition, educators a nd academic leaders must be equipped with the skills and 
knowledge necessary to effectively implement AI in their classrooms. For preservice teachers, greater exposure related to the use of AI during their education will 
increase the number of new teachers  ready to deploy such tools. This can be 
achieved through incentives to education schools that develop programs explicitly 
focused on the use of AI for education.   
II. Generating and Disseminating  Evidence- Based Insights.  Alongside educator 
training, research and development efforts focused on AI -based education 
technologies are needed to guarantee American leadership in the rapidly evolving EdTech industry. These efforts will require close collaboration between software 
developers, academic institutions, and education researchers at organizations such 
as AIR (see Figure 1).  

 
9 Speciﬁcally, as new AI -
based education 
technologies are 
developed, they should be 
deployed by educators in 
the classroom, allowing for 
their effectiveness to be 
measured. Such evaluations should assess 
how AI -based education 
tools impact anticipated 
variables (e.g. , student 
learning, instructional efficiency). These studies will ensure the creation of effective, trusted products, thus generating consumer interest  and making the use of such products 
more widespread. These studies will also identify speciﬁc  needs of students and educators 
that can be addressed through further AI development and reﬁnement. These efforts can 
be supported through federally funded grants that allow educators and researchers to 
deploy and assess the educational value of AI -based  technologies. Further, providing 
support for collaborations between academic institut ions, research organizations such as 
AIR, and industry leaders in AI software development will accelerate the development of 
effective AI- based education tools. Together,  these efforts will serve to boost student 
success, ensure a thriving workforce, and strengthen the American economy.    
 2.5. Encouraging a culture of continuous learning.  
AI technology is evolving at a tremendous pace and is touching nearly every corner of industry. The American workforce will need to accept that their education in the use of this 
technology will need to be ongoing. By partnering with private institutions and industry 
leaders, the NSF OSTP can develop and share  AI training materials and courses, making AI 
expertise accessible to a broader audience. This approach will foster a culture of continuous learning and develo pment across the nation, promoting AI lite racy and 
innovation.  At AIR, our AI Steering Committee created learning communities that release AI 
courses and keep materials updated for quick learning cycles. These communities  help 
build AI expertise and deploy AI experts across divisions, creating resources like case studies and ensuring that everyone has access to AI knowledge and can develop their skills 
in a supportive environment.  
Figure 1. Collaborators Involved in Effective AI -Based Education Tool Development   

 
10 3. Small businesses need support to thrive in the age of AI . 
AIR understands that  AI, particularly  Generative AI (GenAI),  offers tremendous potential for 
businesses to increase their efficiency and productivity, leading to increased proﬁts and 
expansion, which results in a stronger labor market and U .S. economy. For example, GenAI 
can be used to quickly summarize information , increase the availability of insights from 
data, and speed up day -to-day tasks such as record -keeping and writing emails. At the 
same time, difficulties in accessing GenAI  tools and the knowled ge needed to effectively 
use them may limit many small businesses’ ability to make use of this technology. We 
propose that one priority of the current administration should be to offer support for small businesses in becoming GenAI -ﬂuent  and realizing AI’s  potential in promoting their  
business’s  success. The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) would  be an appropriate 
conduit for this information . 
3.1 The use of AI in s mall business es needs study.  
Addressing the needs of small businesses related to AI technology will require 
understanding the current degree of use or desired use of this technology among small 
businesses, the current level of knowledge within these businesses, and the primary use 
cases for this technology.  
I. Survey ing small business es. We suggest that the SBA  seeks input from small 
business associations across as many states as possible to gather insights into 
what is most needed. Links to an AI use survey could be placed on the SBA website 
as a page banner to attract the attention of small business associations and 
entrepreneurs who visit the site for information.  
II. Mapping industries  and occupations  to AI skills . To generate use cases that are 
maximally relevant for speciﬁc geographic areas and industries, the information that SBA uses to produce state proﬁles can be combined with occupational skill proﬁles 
to identify the most prevalent AI -related skills needed  in the state. In a partnership 
with City Colleges of Chicago (CCC), AIR was able to create a proﬁle of the skills 
that were most likely to be in  demand in the Chicago area in the immediate future 
based on the projected demand for occupations and provide guidance on how CCC 
could reach out to employers to discuss their immediate future workforce needs. 
Similar mapping could identify the most relevant AI skills for small businesses by 
industry and in differen t geographic areas.  
3.2 Small businesses need resources to use AI effectively.  
The SBA website offers information about the beneﬁts and risks of AI use, along with a 
glossary and links to a few resources for writing GenAI prompts and understanding how the 

 
11 use of Gen AI in the development of new products and approaches can impact a business 
or entrepreneur’s ability to patent their invention. This page can be enhanced with 
additional resources informed by the needs of small businesses around the U nited States.  
I. Helping small businesses respond to AI risks.  The SBA website lists in its Risks of 
AI use  section, “Try not to feed any sensitive data or proprietary information.” This is 
indeed  best practice, as many free sources of Gen AI algorithms, such as ChatGPT 
or Google Gemini, may retain users’ input and repurpose these data to train their algorithms. However, many of the use cases listed for GenAI would require 
proprietary data to be effective (e.g., “Make better business decisions,” “Create business content”). G uidance on seeking a GenAI provider that protects client data 
is crucial to help entrepreneurs bridge the gap between “do not use proprietary data with free Generative AI sources” and the suggestion to use Gen AI to analyze or 
process proprietary data. AIR has worked internally to develop a checklist for evaluating the security of AI -empowered software options to make 
recommendations for our clients and decisions about company use of this 
software. A similar dec ision -making tool could help small businesses c hoose the 
right AI -empowered solution for their needs.   
II. Understand ing AI-related assets. The SBA can  highlight the types of information 
that should be guarded in the new age of GenAI . For example, prompts that have 
been carefully shaped by a company should not be shared. Access to n ovel d ata 
sources and innovative ways of combining this  data with  state or government data  
will give businesses a competitive edge, so any information about the data sources 
a business is using, even if they are publicly available, should be carefully guarded.  
3.3 Small business consortia can pool AI resources.  
Another way that the federal government could support small businesses’ use of Gen AI is 
to provide guidance to small business  consortia on investing in appropriate infrastructure 
to support secure access to Gen AI solutions for their members.  
I. Pooling resources to protect data. Closed GenAI solutions allow users to work 
with GenAI without exposing their proprietary data. However, even basic closed 
Gen AI systems will  be prohibitively expensive for most small businesses. Given the 
tremendous potential for Gen AI to increase productivity and efficiency, it may be 
worthwhile for a group of businesses to pool resources and share access to a closed 
GenAI software solution.  
II. Collaborating on AI learning . These consortia could also make the discussion of AI 
use and sharing of AI resources a regular part of their communications with 
consortia members and a point of discussion at meetings. AIR has maximized AI use 

 
12 and knowledge across our organization by collaborating and sharing knowledge 
through presentations on new tools and use cases, digital training  module s, and 
learning activities like hackathons.  
 
  

 
13 Works Cited  
Adams, D. (2024, December).  Folks I promised you big news....and here it is: Project CAFE 
is now live across four states [Thumbnail with link attached ] [Post]. LinkedIn. 
https://www.linkedin.com/posts/david -adams -10236721_the -urban -assembly -
project -cafe -activity -7267222521253441538- ynJP/   
Aghion, P., Bergeaud, A., & Van Reenen, J. (2023). The impact of regulation on innovation. 
American Economic Review , 113(11), 2894–2936. 
Anthology Inc. (2024). AI in h igher ed: Hype, h arm, or help . 
https://www.anthology.com/sites/default/ﬁles/2024 -10/White_Paper -
AI_in_Higher_Ed -Hype_Harm_or_Help_USEdition -v2_10-24.pdf  
Bakare, S. S., Adeniyi, A. O., Akpuokwe, C. U., & Eneh, N. E. (2024). Data privacy laws and 
compliance: A comparative review of the EU GDPR and USA regulations. Computer 
Science & IT Research Journal , 5(3), 528 –543.  
Bartlett, R., Morse, A., Stanton, R., & Wallace, N. (2022). Consumer -lending discrimination 
in the FinTech era. Journal of Financial Economics , 143(1),  30–56. 
Bhutoria, A. (2022). Personalized education and artiﬁcial intelligence in the United States, 
China, and India: A systematic review using a human -in-the-loop model. Computers 
and Education: Artiﬁcial Intelligence , 3, 100068. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.caeai.2022.100068  
Challoumis, C. (2023). Investing in the future: How AI is reshaping corporate ﬁnancial 
landscapes. XIV International Scientiﬁc Conference, 205– 244.  
Chan, C. K., & Tsi, L. H. Y. (2024). Will generative AI replace teachers in Higher Education? A 
study of teacher and student perceptions. Studies in Educational Evaluation , 83, 
101395. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.stueduc.2024.101395  
Chen, L., Chen, P., & Lin, Z. (2020). Artiﬁcial intelligence in education: A review. IEEE 
Access , 8, 75264–75278. https://doi.org/10.1109/access.2020.2988510  
European Commission. (2021). Proposal for a r egulation laying down harmonised rules on 
artiﬁcial intelligence (Artiﬁcial Intelligence Act) and amending certain Union 
legislative acts.  https://eur -lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:52021PC0206 
Floridi, L., Cowls, J., Beltrametti, M., Chatila, R., Chazerand, P., Dignum, V., Luetge, C., 
Madelin, R., Pagallo, U., Rossi, F., Schafer, B., Valcke, P., & Vayena, E. (2018). 

 
14 AI4People- An ethical framework for a g ood AI s ociety: Opportunities, r isks, 
principles, and r ecommendations. Minds and Machines , 28, 689–707.  
Franke, L., Liang, H., Farzanehpour, S., Brantly, A., Davis, J. C., & Brown, C. (2024). An 
exploratory mixed -methods study on general data protection regulation (gdpr) 
compliance in open -source software. Proceedings of the 18th ACM/IEEE 
International Symposium on Empirical Software Engineering and Measurement , 
325–336.  
Garg, S. (2024). U.S. Education Technology (edtech) market: Growth, trends, insights . Ken 
Research. https://www.kenresearch.com/industry- reports/us -education -
technology- market  
Garrett, R. (2024). ‘They can show you with their body’: affect, embodime nt and access to 
learning. Sport, Education and Society, 29(1), 1 -13.  
Kaya, H. (2021). The impact of regulations on small ﬁrm characteristics. Business Ethics 
and Leadership , 5(2), 66–77. 
Kılıç, S. (2024). Use of artiﬁcial intelligence in teaching different disciplines. In A. G üneş & 
E. Yünkül (Eds.), Interdisciplinary approach to fostering change in schools (pp.  223–
254). IGI Global Scientiﬁc Publishing.  https://doi.org/10.4018/979- 8-3693 -4119 -
3.ch009  
Lin, H. (2022). Inﬂuences of artiﬁcial intelligence in education on teaching effectiveness. 
International Journal of Emerging Technologies in Learning (iJET) , 17(24), 144– 156. 
https://doi.org/10.3991/ijet.v17i24.36037  
Maghsudi, S., Lan, A., Xu, J., & van der Schaar, M. (2021). Personalized education in the 
artiﬁcial intelligence era: What to expect next. IEEE Signal Processing Magazine , 
38(3), 37– 50. https://doi.org/10.1109/msp.2021.3055032  
market.us. (2024). (rep.). EdTech Market . https://market.us/report/edtech -market/  
Mittelstadt, B. (2019). Principles alone cannot guarantee ethical AI. Nature Machine 
Intelligence, 1, 501 –507.  
National Institute of Standards and Technology. (2023). Artiﬁcial intelligence risk 
management framework (AI RMF 1.0) . 
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/ai/NIST.AI.100 -1.pdf  
OpenAI. Building an AI -ready workforce . (2025, February 20). 
https://cdn.openai.com/global -affairs/openai -edu -ai-ready -workforce.pdf  

 
15 Rakha, N. A. (2023). The impacts of a rtiﬁcial intelligence (AI) on business and its regulatory 
challenges. International Journal of Law and Policy , 1(1). 
U.S. Department of Commerce. (n.d.). Education technology . International Trade 
Administration. https://www.trade.gov/education -technology   
Wachter, S., Mittelstadt, B., & Floridi, L. (2017). Why a right to explanation of automated 
decision -making does not exist in the general data protection regulation. 
International Data Privacy Law, 76 –99. 
Weiner, S., Lake, R., & Rosner, J. (2024, November 5). Ai is evolving, but teacher prep is 
lagging: A ﬁrst look at teacher preparation program responses to ai . Center on 
Reinventing Public Education. https://crpe.org/ai -is-evolving -but-teacher -prep -is-
lagging/  
Zwetsloot, R., Zhang, B., Dreksler, N., Kahn, L., Anderljung, M., Dafoe, A., & Horowitz, M. C. 
(2021). Skilled and m obile: Survey e vidence of AI r esearchers ’ immigration 
preferences. Proceedings of the 2021 AAAI/ACM Conference on AI, Ethics, and 
Society , 1050–1059.  
 
 
 
 

