From: Alana Bernazzani
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence
(AI) Action Plan
Date: Sunday, March 16, 2025 1:53:46 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
March 14, 2025From:
Alana BernazzaniUPS Front Desk Worker and ArtistDedham, MA
I am an everyday American who owns a small visual design business which serves clients in the
entertainment industry. I have worked hard for years to develop the skills and knowledge to build mybusiness, and have been lucky enough to make a decent living and support my family – until recently.
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy
thousands of American small businesses like mine with their recent demand to create special carve outsin copyright law.
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work made by people. My unique work, and the work
of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators was taken and fed into these AI systemswithout our consent or any compensation. They ingest our work, reassemble it, and then sell it back toour clients – directly competing with us and cutting us out of the marketplace.
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and loopholes to
make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggestingthat if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work, it is somehow suddenly “fair use”. 
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who owns it – should
be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow them to rewrite the law in thisway, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to protect the incentive
to create and innovate. 
If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be stolen by Big
Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans create a new innovative piece ofcomputer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only to have it immediately stolen byGoogle and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the first place? How will we possibly make a living doingthese things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new copyright
exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and everyday Americanswithout permission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective consent, so that


we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the incentive to
create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic value, so the value generatedby that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, requiring them to
disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these AI systems,
and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds ofthousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewriting copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.


