To: Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), the NITRD NCO 
Name: Alex Wodi  
Organization: Legal Researcher/Writer  
Date: 15 March 2025 
Attn: Faisal D'Souza,  
RE: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
1.0 Introduction 
The ra pid advancement of AI technology in our time calls for a robust AI strategy and 
framework at the global and national levels that ensure AI is beneficial to humans .  
The Unite d States of America (US) has no comprehensive federal legislation on AI  like the EU 
AI Act or GDPR. US’s AI strategy , like its data privacy strategy , is industry and market drive n. 
US has a patchwork of standards and frameworks and State level legislation in respect of 
consumer protection, employment, generative AI policy or A utomated Employment D ecision 
Tools (ADET) having intersections with privacy, bias and ethics.[1]  Much of the legislative 
activity related to AI is concentrated among the 50 states. [2] 
US is  ranked at first place on both the Oxford Insights AI Readiness Index 2024 and the 
Tortoise Media Global AI Index.[3] The US is ranked top in respect of “talent; infrastructure, research ; and development”  sub- pillars.  The US is , however, ranked 2nd place on the 
“government strategy” sub -pillar. This underscores the need for a comprehensive national AI 
strate gy. 
2.0  AI and AI Governance  
“AI Governance” has been defined as –  
A system of laws, policies, frameworks, practices and processes at international, 
national and organizational levels. AI governance helps various stakeholders 


implement, manage and oversee the use of AI technology. It also helps manage 
associated risks to ensure AI aligns with stakeholders’ objectives, is developed and 
used responsibly and ethically, and complies with applicable requirements .[4]  
The primary objective of AI governance is to foster innovative and trustworthy AI and to 
protect the interests of government, citizens, businesses, and society.  The proliferation of AI  
models and systems has made AI governance a necessary imperative. Policymakers and 
business leaders in their boardrooms and at the world stage are concerned with how best to 
regulate AI, integrate AI into the economy , and build capacity around AI. 
 AI governance promotes innovative and trustworthy AI . It ensures regulatory compliance and 
boosts public trust and confidence. It ensures that AI design, development and deployment is 
ethical , safe and beneficial to humans and society.  
 There are existing AI standards and frameworks which may be leveraged in formulating an AI Action Plan. These include:  - OECD AI Principles ; UNESCO Recom mendations on the Ethics 
of AI ; ISO 42001; and NIST AI RMF. [5] 
 Common principles amongst the four standards/ frameworks  – A I ethic and AI safety, 
transparency and accountability, fairness, explainability, research, development and innovation  
(RD&I), democratic values, international cooperation, human agency and oversight, AI 
literacy, AI risk assessment and AI risk management.  
 The OECD AI principles influenced the UN ESCO Recommendations and EU AI Act. The US 
is a signatory to the OECD AI principles and the UNESCO Recommendations  on the Ethics 
of AI.  The US is also a member of GPAI and G7.  
 
3.0 Areas of Concern and Recommendations  
 AI comes with potential benefits and risks to humans and society. These risks have raised 
public concerns about AI ethics and AI safety regarding AI bias  and discrimination, energy 


consum ption, hallucination, job loss and disruptions, deepfakes, national security, cyber-
attacks, black box problem, human rights, data privacy and copyright violations. 
Innovat ive and Trustworthy AI
There are those who argue that regulation can stifle innovation. On the contrary regulation 
provides clarity and direction to the market. A market driven approach to regulation with the 
proper guardrails will promote innovation and trust.  
Recomm endations - 
1.A balanced approach to regulation involving all AI actors and stakeholders comprisingpolicymakers, AI developers and researchers from the industry and academia, civil society
and consumers.
2.The AI Action Plan should involve broad consultation and participation across the pr ivate
and public sector. There should be a multi -disciplinary and multi -stakeholder approach to
formulating an AI strategy and framework.
3.Continued engagement and participation at international platforms and summits to promotethe US position on AI and strengthen partnerships, cooperations and opportunities  for AI
R D&  I.
4.Issuance of guidelines on AI E thics  and S afety  to promote human flourishing.
5. Issuance of guidelines on the use and adoption of AI in Public  and Private Sector.
6.Issuance of guidelines for the protection of children and vulnerable persons from AI risks.
7.Investment in AI infrastructure to foster economic competitiveness, and national security.
8.Establish  capacity building programs and initiatives  to promote AI literacy and awareness
among US citizens and residents.
9.Promotion of STEM, AI/Machine Learning scholarships and programs at the high schooland university levels
10.Investment in AI and cybersecurity to avoid risks of AI enabled cyberattacks and risks to
critical infrastructure.


AI an d Data
Data has been described as the life -blood of the digital economy. The core components for 
developing AI models include data, algorithms, and computing power.  Data is crucial to 
training AI models.  However,  there are intersections between AI and privacy.  
There are concerns about data provenance and data sovereignty. There must be respect for the 
rights of data subjects about the collection, use and storage of their personal data to train or 
enhance AI models and systems.  There are also concerns about algorithm bias and 
hallucination. AI explainability promotes interpretability and auditability.  
Recomm endations – 
1.Promotion of data privacy rights to foster transparency and accountability throughout the
lifecycle of AI models and systems.
2.Data diversification and augmentation to address concerns around gender and racial bias ,
discrimination  and underrepresentation of vulnerable and protected classes in AI products
and solutions.
AI and  Copyright
There have been concerns about the use of copyrighted material in training AI models.  This has 
resulted in outcry and lawsuits by artist against AI companies.  
Recomm endations – 
1. T here should be acknowledgment and c ompensation for  the use of the works  copyright
holders in AI development and deployment.
2.There should be an exemption  when works are used for research and educational purposes.
However, when such works form part of the out- put material like in the case of generative
AI there  should be attribution and adequate compensation.
3.There should be consultation and negotiation between AI developers and representatives
of artists and copyright holders (e.g. Associations, Groups, or Collection Societies)  to
arrive a t a scale of licens ing fees and compensation  acceptable to all  parties.
4.A mechanism for content water -marking and labelling  should be put in place.


 AI and the Environment  
The global digital and energy transition ( Zero by 2030) is tied to Tin, Tantalum, Tungsten and Gold 
(3TG).  A significa nt amount are found in the DRC and tied to illegal mines , forced labor, and 
environmental degradation. Thus, they are often referred to as “conflict minerals.”  
Section 1502 of the Dodd- Frank Act (2010) and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) 
Conflict Minerals Rule  (August 2012)  [6] aim to promote transparency and standardize the 3TG  
supply chain, by imposing reporting obligations on companies about the origin and use of 3TG in 
their products . The Dodd Frank Act and SEC Rule applies to manufacturers of electronics  and 
communications , aerospace, automotive, jewelry and medical devices.   
There is also concern about the massive consumption of water and energy by GPUs and data 
centers, which is estimated at about 2 -3% of the global energy consumption. This figure is 
predicted to rise significantly in the future with increase AI adoption  and activities .[7] 
Recommendations –  
1. Adhe rence to Dodd-Frank and SEC Rules on Conflict Minerals. 
2. Transparency about the source of 3TG and other materials that go into production of GPU, chips, batteries, semi -conductor and other components the AI technology revolution.  
3. Investment in the development of m ore innovative and efficient AI models and data centers  
to reduce water and energy consumption and carbon emissions. (e.g. carbon- aware AI). 
4. Investment in, and commitment to  Corporate Social Responsibility ( CSR) and ESG 
programs to address human and environmental concerns of host communities. 
5. Streamlining AI policy and activities with achievement of the SDGs.  
 
4.0 Conclusion  
In order for the US to maintain its AI dominance and AI leadership position there should be a  
robust AI Action Plan to promotes innovative and trustworthy AI.  It should however  be noted that 
an AI policy would only be successful if there is mass adoption and ownership by all sector s and 
citizens.  The AI Action Plan provides an opportunity to define US AI policy and strategy for 
economic growth and well-being of US citizens.  
 


*This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan
and associated documents without attribution.
Referen ces 
1.AI Training for the Acquisition of Workforce Act; the Algorithmic Accountability Act; AI in Government 
Act; National AI Initiative Act; Title VII of the Civil Rights Act; Age Discrimination in Employment Act;
Fair Credit Reporting Act; Genetic Information and Non- discrimination Act (GINA ); Children’s Online
Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), Federal Trade Commission ( FTC) Act; and Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act ( HIPAA).
2.like California, Colorado, Illinois, New York, Utah.  For example, the 2021 New York City Local Law 144,
Illinois AI Video Interview Act ; HB 3773 amending  Illinois Human Rights Act ; New York State
Department of Financial Services (NYDFS) “guidance on cybersecurity risks associated with artificial
intelligence (AI)”;  Utah AI Policy Act (SB 149);  Colorado Artificial Intelligence (AI) Act  (SB 24 -205);
California AI Transparency Act  (SB 946); and Senate Bill 896: Generative Artificial Intelligence (GenAI)
Accountability Act  (SB 896).
3.Oxford Insights AI Readiness Index <  Oxford Insights AI Readiness Index > accessed 13 March 2025; and
Global AI Index < https://www.tortoisemedia.com/data/global- ai#rankings > accessed 13 March 2025.
4.IAPP – “Key Terms for AI Governance” < https://iapp.org/resources/article/key -terms -for-ai-governance/ >
accessed 1 3 March 2025.
5.OECD AI Principles O verview (OECD AI Policy Observatory ) <https://oecd.ai/en/ai -principles > accessed
13 March 2025;
UNES CO Recommendation on the Ethics of AI <https://www.unesco.org/en/artificial -
intelligence/recommendation -ethics?hub=32618 > accessed 15 March  2025;
ISO/ IEC 42001: 2023 “ Information technology - Artificial intelligence - Management system ” (ISO, 2023)
<https://www.iso.org/standard/81230.html > accessed 14 March 2025 ; and
AI RMF <https://www.nist.gov/itl/ai -risk-management -framework>  accessed 13 March 2025.
6.Source Intelligence, “ EU Conflict Minerals Regulation vs. U.S. Dodd -Frank Act Section 1502 ” (Source
Intelligence , 3 July 2024) < https://blog.sourceintelligence.com/blog/eu -conflict -minerals -vs-us-dodd -frank -
act-section -1502 > accessed 14 March 2025.
7.IEA 2024 Electricity Report < https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/assets/6b2fd954 -2017- 408e -bf08-
952fdd62118a/Electricity2024- Analysisandforecastto2026.pdf > accessed 13 March 2025.


