From: Thomasson, Alex
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 2:46:25 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Dear folks,
Please accept the comments in the next few paragraphs in response to the Request for
Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan.   These are
recommendations focused on how AI can benefit agriculture in the U.S.   They are well
researched and come from a broad group of industry experts who worked together to write alarger issue paper on this subject, which will be published by CAST (Council for AgriculturalScience and Technology) on March 31, 2025.
  Because I am submitting these
recommendations prior to publication, please consider them to be attributable to me only — Idon't want to have them attributed to the other experts or to CAST prior to publication, whilethe manuscript is still under review.
  I appreciate your consideration of them.
Best regards,Alex Thomasson
J. Alex Thomasson, Ph.D., P.E.,  
Professor, Department Head, and William B. and Sherry Berry Endowed Chair, Department of Agricultural and Biological
EngineeringFounding Director, The Agricultural Autonomy InstituteMississippi State University, P.O. Box 9632, Mississippi State, MS
  39762
Comments on the Development of an AI Action Plan relative to Agriculture
AI has tremendous potential to benefit agriculture in terms of improved efficiency, precision,
productivity, lifestyle improvement, etc.  Efforts in and examples of generative AI as well as
numerous other forms of AI for agriculture are proliferating.  On the other hand, several
barriers exist to realizing the full potential of AI in agriculture.  These include the common
incompatibility of agricultural data, the difficulty in making AI models widely applicable foragriculture, the lack of broadband connectivity in rural areas and remote farm fields inparticular, concerns about lack of privacy in agricultural data, resistance to change amongfarmers and others in the agricultural supply chain, lack of a tech-savvy workforce, and highcosts of adoption. 
 While the development of AI technologies for agriculture grows, albeit
slowed by the aforementioned barriers, concerns exist about societal implications of how it isused. 
 These include the loss of agricultural knowledge by farmers and workers using AI,
issues of cybersecurity, the needs of workers and consumers relative to AI in agriculture aswell as other ethical issues, and finally the lack of adequate funding for research on AI inagriculture. 
 On the other hand, the opportunities for the growth of AI in agriculture and its
positive effects on the industry are immeasurable.  To take advantage of these opportunities, it


is essential to promote innovation and competition in the industry, to advance American
leadership in AI’s development for agriculture, and to promote the development of standardsthat can support the growth of AI in agriculture while improving efficiency and reliability in safeand ethical ways.
Along these lines, we recommend that policy makers ponder the following initiatives, changes,
and lines of thinking. 
 It is important to contemplate regulations that would (a) create an
enabling environment for AI in agriculture that aligns with agricultural practice and economicand environmental goals; (b) implement a self-regulatory approach among funding bodies,industry, academics, and farmers, similar to that of the 1975 Asilomar conference forbiotechnology (Hurlbut, 2025); (c) enable farmers to easily engage with these systems andcommon data repositories; and (d) consider open-source tools as a means to increasecompetitiveness.
It is also important to ensure that adequate funding is available for (a) AI-in-agriculture
research to catalyze discoveries and new applications and ensure U.S. competitiveness; (b)AI-in-agriculture research possibly in the form of additional AI institutes with a focus onagriculture, as envisioned by the National Artificial Intelligence Initiative (NAII); (c) broadbandwireless communications infrastructure to enable farmers to participate in AI-driveninnovations; and (d) public-private partnerships to create a viable financial ecosystem forinnovation.
Furthermore, it is important to develop opportunities for education and training that (a)
provide agricultural and technical, particularly AI-related, skills for the workforce of the future;(b) that equip extension agents, farmers, farm workers, and the agricultural workforce with thenecessary skills to operate AI technologies; and (c) promote the decision-making benefits ofprecision agriculture and AI-driven technologies to farmers and agricultural supply chainmembers.
It is important to ensure that AI tools (a) are tailored to the specific needs of farmers to make
the technology relatable and credible, and (b) engage workers in the design andimplementation of the tools to ensure their perspectives are taken into account. 
 Moreover, it
is important to encourage transparency in how AI-driven decisions are made andrecommendations are formulated – such as with TAI (trustworth AI) and XAI (explainable AI).
Additionally, it is important to consider a regulatory framework that promotes Ag Data Core
Principles, which include (a) simple contracts between data providers and farmers, and (b)numerous protections for farmers.
It is also appropriate to consider regulations that ensure algorithms for AI in agriculture (a) are
beneficial to large and small farms and those in high-income and low-income communities,(b) are developed with concepts like federated learning to decentralize data so as not toexpose sensitive information, (c) are developed with diversified datasets so that the tools are


representative of a broad range of geographies, (d) are accessible and affordable, and (e) work
with offline-compatible tools to help farmers in areas with limited internet connectivity.  
Also, it is important to implement a comprehensive cybersecurity strategy involving academic,industry, government, and agricultural stakeholders to prevent unauthorized access, etc.
 Finally, it is important to develop standards for AI technologies in agriculture to facilitate
interoperability among brands of products as well as quality and safety assurance.
There is immense potential for AI to enable a next step change in agriculture.  Expanding
funding, training, etc. can enhance the adoption of AI in agriculture, supporting various sizes of
farm operations through access to advanced AI tools and the ability to use them. Such aninitiative would position the United States as a global leader in agricultural AI, drivingeconomic growth, ensuring food security, and promoting sustainable practices.
Bibliography
Hurlbut, J. B. (2025). Taking responsibility: Asilomar and its legacy. Science, 387(6733), 468-
472.
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


