From: Alex York
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 11:58:48 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
I am a professional storyboard artist working in the film and animation industy. This is my
statement for the US Government's AI Action Plan.
The current crop of generative A.I. products are pale replacements for legitimate and focused
human effort.
The companies that seek to profit from their proliferation train their models on artwork,
literature, and cultural works that represent the total of lifetimes' worth of skill and livedexperience. This training is done without the consent of the original creators or compensationprovided for the use of work, all of which constitutes theft. Theft on a collasal and egotisticalscale that belies both a hubris and a lack of basic human decency in the leadership of thesecompanies.
These very same companies then seek to use these models in competition with the very same
human labor they are built upon. Effectively stealing both the artwork to train on and thelivelihood in its wake.
This wicked scheme further disregards the public by siphoning huge amounts of power and
water to make its heist of humanity.
  Fueling the climate crisis at the same time it fuels a labor
crisis.
The US Government should act to limit generative A.I. and impose the stricest of copyright
law to protect human artists and creators, protect the environment, and demand thesecompanies destroy all models trained on artwork, literature, and data acquired without explicitconsent.
Thank you for your time.My name is Alexander YorkThis document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be
 
reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents withoutattribution
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure


requirements.
If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


