 
AI Action  Plan   
Attn:  Faisal  D'Souza,  NCO  
2415  Eisenhower  Avenue  
Alexandria,  VA 22314  
Dear  Mr. D'Souza, D'Souza 
 
The Alliance  for Learning  Innovation  (ALI)  brings  together  education  nonproﬁts,  
philanthropy,  and the private  sector,  to advocate  for building  a better  research  and 
development  (R&D)  infrastructure  in education.  Considering  that R&D  is a relatively  
untapped  engine  of innovation  in the education  sector,  ALI advocates  for increased  
capacity  of education  R&D  and supports  the research  and development  of 
evidence-based  innovation  that centers  students  and practitioners,  advances  equity,  
improves  talent  pathways,  and expands  the workforce  needed  in a globally  
competitive  world.   
 
Incoming  Director  Kratsios  shared  that he is “committed  to American  leadership  in 
emerging  technologies,  and to ensuring  that all Americans  beneﬁt  from  scientiﬁc  and 
technological  advances."  The Alliance  for Learning  Innovation  is ready  to support  this 
noble  goal  recognizing  that a robust  AI infrastructure  requires  a robust  education  R&D  
infrastructure.  The time  is now  for a whole  of government  approach  to AI. 
 
ALI sees  great  promise  in artiﬁcial  intelligence  (AI) to improve  education,  economic  
opportunity,  and national  security.  To realize  this opportunity  and ensure  the U.S. 
remains  globally  competitive,  the nation  needs  a rigorous  and modernized  education  
R&D  ecosystem  that crosscuts  federal  agencies  and taps  into the promise  of AI.  
 
Stunning  advancements  in generative  AI show  the potential  of what  AI-powered  and 
AI-enabled,  research-based  advancements  in teaching  and learning  could  do. With  
careful  design,  stakeholder  engagement,  and attention  to research  and development,  
AI can promote  personalized  and individualized  learning  supported  by universal  design  
for learning,  improve  student  engagement  and achievement  and support  human  
ﬂourishing.  
 
1 


 
An updated  education  R&D  ecosystem  that leverages  AI will cultivate  generations  of 
talent  in the STEM  ﬁelds,  including  AI, and lead  to innovations  that strengthen  our 
national  security,  workforce  preparedness,  and global  competitiveness.  However,  this 
cannot  be accomplished  without  simultaneously  investing  in strong  education  R&D  
infrastructure  and the underlying  data  infrastructure  that helps  us develop  eﬀective  
and safe applications  of AI technologies  in educational  settings.  
 
To realize  the full potential  of AI in learning  environments  and for innovation  and to 
inform  the development  of the Trump  administration’s  AI Action  Plan,  the Alliance  for 
Learning  Innovation  recommends  the following  concrete  policy  actions:  
 
1. OSTP  should  coordinate  with  the Oﬃce  of the Federal  CIO on the revised  
M-Memo  on AI to advance  education-related  AI use cases,  increase  interagency  
cooperation  on AI projects  with  K12 education  components,  and to partner  with  
outside  institutions  to seed/accelerate  AI technologies  in education.  
2. Connect  K-12  education  and workforce  development  eﬀorts  across  the 
federal  government . NSF does  this eﬀectively  with  its Experiential  Learning  for 
Novel  and Emerging  Technologies  program,  which  builds  career  pathways  in 
emerging  technology  ﬁelds  and tracks  for secondary  and post-secondary  school  
students,  as well as adult  learners.  NSF’s  Advanced  Technological  Education  
program  oﬀers  another  example  of K-12  and workforce  connectivity,  as it 
supports  partnerships  with  secondary  schools  for budding  science  and 
engineering  technicians  as does  Biofab  Explorer:  Designing  a Dual  Enrollment  
Pathway  to Careers  in Biofabrication  which  embeds  career  guidance  into CTE 
classrooms  that provide  dual  enrollment  options  to high  school  students.  
Similarly,  since  CTE has long  utilized  and supported  career  pathways,  more  
could  be done  to ensure  that CTE career  pathways  are being  developed  in 
relevant  industries  like semiconductor  manufacturing  and are connected  to 
post-secondary  pathway  options.  The Administration  should  create  
opportunities  to increase  the number  of qualiﬁed  instructors  and allow  ﬂexibility  
for students  to pursue  career  pathway  opportunities  outside  traditional  
education  structures.  Without  well-developed  pathways  that begin  in K-12,  the 
talent  needed  to continue  to build  on workforce  development  investments  
made  by the federal  government  will be missing.  Work-based  learning  
2 


 
opportunities  including  youth  apprenticeships,  should  be leveraged  to address  
the career  opportunities  AI will create.  
3. Promote  AI literacy  through  competitive  grantmaking.  Establish  a 
government  wide  AI literacy  priority  and utilize  this priority  in competitive  grant  
competitions  at relevant  federal  agencies.  The priority  should  include  a priority  
for programs  or tools  that increase  AI literacy  for students  and/or  educators,  
along  with  researchers  in discretionary  grant  priorities.   
4. Ensure  robust  federal  investments  in AI and education  R&D  and the 
necessary  data  infrastructure . Speciﬁcally,  maintain  the National  AI Institutes  
program  currently  housed  at the National  Science  Foundation  (NSF)  and the 
Accelerate,  Transform,  & Scale  Initiative  (ATS)  currently  housed  at the Institute  of 
Education  Sciences  (IES).  NSF and IES co-funded  the AI Institute  for Exceptional  
Education,  which  capitalizes  on the latest  AI research  to serve  children  with  
speech  and language  pathology  needs,  as well as the AI Institute  for Inclusive  
Intelligent  Technologies  for Education,  exploring  the intersection  of AI and skills,  
like persistence  and collaboration,  that underlie  academic  success.  Communities  
must  continue  to beneﬁt  from  AI Institutes  that meet  the moment  and deliver  
solutions  for today’s  teaching  and learning  challenges.  Congress  should  also 
continue  to fund  the ATS Initiative  at IES to support  more  U-GAIN  R&D  Centers,  
which  provide  rapid  and responsive  research  around  generative  AI in schools  
and classrooms.  We recommend  the Administration  include  robust  funding  for 
these  initiatives  in their  FY 2026  budget  request.  
5. Pass  the bipartisan  CREATE  AI Act and Future  of Innovation  Act. Work  with  
Congress  to pass  the theCREATE  AI Act, which   would  authorize  the National  
Artiﬁcial  Intelligence  Research  Resource  (NAIRR)  and democratize  the 
development  and use of AI. The NAIRR  would  provide  free or low-cost  access  to 
datasets  and computing  resources  and bolster  American  innovation  in many  
ﬁelds,  including  education  and workforce  pathways.  The Future  of Innovation  
Act would  advance  AI research  by forging  partnerships  among  government,  
business,  civil society,  and academia.  This legislation  would  create  testbeds  with  
national  laboratories  to spur  groundbreaking  AI innovations,  including  in 
education,  that will strengthen  the U.S. economy  and national  security.   
6. Maintain  suﬃcient  resources  for the Discovery  Research  PreK-12  Program  
Resource  Center  on Transformative  Education  Research  and Translation  
(DRK-12  RC) program  at NSF.  The DRK-12  RC program  is intended  to select  
3 


 
partners  to enhance  the overall  inﬂuence  and reach  of the DRK-12  Program’s  
research  and development  investments.  The DRK-12  RC program  could  be 
utilized  to work  with  multi-sector  constituencies  to accelerate  the identiﬁcation  
and scaling  of evidence-based  practices  for AI, computer  science,  data  science,  
and other  emerging  technologies.  
7. Establish  a National  Center  for Advanced  Development  in Education  
(NCADE).  Modeled  after  the successful  Defense  Advanced  Research  Projects  
Agency  (DARPA),  this new  Center  would:  
a. Fund  informed-risk,  high-reward  research  projects  that have  the potential  
to make  transformative  breakthroughs  in AI, career-connected  learning,  
and STEM  literacy  among  other  educational  opportunities.   
b. Facilitate  interdisciplinary  collaboration,  bringing  together  experts  from  a 
diversity  of sectors  to collaboratively  solve  complex  problems  in 
education.  Leading  these  teams  of collaborators  are program  managers,  
who  have  autonomy  to actively  design  and manage  their  portfolios,  unlike  
grant  program  oﬃcers.   
c. Use ﬂexible  funding  mechanisms  to rapidly  deploy  dollars  to innovators  
and researchers  tackling  complex,  urgent  issues  in education.   For 
example,  when  using  contracts  (as opposed  to grants),  NCADE  can ask for 
speciﬁc  deliverables  and hold  awardees  accountable  to those  
deliverables.   
8. Promote  policies  and funding  that  support  access  to and use of the 
National  Institute  of Standards  and Technology  Artiﬁcial  Intelligence  Risk  
Management  Framework . Developed  in collaboration  with  the private  and 
public  sectors,  the voluntary  use framework  is intended  to improve  the ability  to 
incorporate  trustworthiness  considerations  into the design,  development,  use, 
and evaluation  of AI products,  services,  and systems.  
 
In addition,  ALI recommends  that the Administration  promote  policies  and funding  
that support  access  to and use of the National  Institute  of Standards  and Technology  
Artiﬁcial  Intelligence  Risk Management  Framework  (NIST  Framework)  that improve  the 
ability  to incorporate  trustworthiness  considerations  into AI products,  services,  and 
systems.  ALI also urges  use of  the Data  Quality  Campaign  and EDSAFE  AI Alliance ’s 
policy  recommendations  to protect  student  data,  privacy,  and data  quality  in any AI 
learning  tool.  Please  do not hesitate  to reach  out to Sara  Schapiro,  Executive  Director  
4 


of the Alliance for Learning Innovation if you have any questions or if there is anything 
we can do to help. 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or conﬁdential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
5 


