From: Allysia Everson
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 8:37:48 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Good evening,
My name is Allysia Everson. I am a natural-born citizen of the United States.I am a life-long artist and although I am not in the professional field, I have seen the negative
effects that generative AI images have done to the Arts in both professional and amateurcircles.
I took Graphic Design in high school for several years, from Summer 2008 to Spring 2010,
and one of the first topics we learned in that class was regarding Copyright, copyrightinfringement, and the responsibility that we had as graphic designers, regardless of skill orprofessional level, to abide by the law.
Even back then, it was impressed upon students the importance of integrity in our art.Images generated by the process of bot programs mass-scraping millions upon billions of
other images without the consent of their owners is copyright infringement to the utmostdegree.
I have seen countless artists lose customers and their entire livelihoods because businesses are
turning to these unlawfully generated images in lieu of paying professionals.
I have seen the work of deceased artists whose families have cried out in horror as their loved
ones' art--their living legacies--are unlawfully trained on the artwork of their loved ones togenerate look-alikes and turn a profit.
Tech bros looking to save a quick buck will decry these points, saying that artists "riff" on
other artworks all the time, and we have no place to criticize their programs that are alsooverutilizing internet resources and slowing down traffic of the internet nation-wide.
This is a sham.
  Generative AI programs are over bloated, overcostly, and nothing more than a
Silicon Valley fad that has no place in the future of the US.These so-called "Artificially Intelligent" programs are nothing more than glorified autocorrect
programs committing copyright infringement on a scale never seen before that must bestopped at all costs.
It threatens the livelihoods of countless people, and threatens the very integrity of Copyright
itself.
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government


in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


