17200 Laguna Canyon Road
Irvine, CA 92618
1www.alteryx.com  March 15, 2025 
AI Action Plan  
Attn: Faisal D'Souza, NCO 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue, Alexandria, VA 22314 
Re:  Comments on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Introduction 
Alteryx welcomes the opportunity to provide input to the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy on the development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan.  
Alteryx supports the development of policies, guidance, and standards that advance 
responsible AI adoption and support the innovation of companies, like ours, that place 
powerful, customized AI tools into the hands of enterprises and individuals to solve real-
world problems and increase productivity.   
Alteryx is a leading global provider of data science and analytics automation software 
with headquarters in Irvine, California. The Alteryx AI Platform for Enterprise Analytics 
delivers easy, end-to-end automation of data engineering, analytics, reporting, machine 
learning, and data science processes, enabling enterprises everywhere to democratize 
data analytics across their organizations for a broad range of use cases.   
Alteryx develops and deploys sophisticated low-code/no-code analytics software, 
including both desktop and cloud-based offerings, that make advanced analytics and 
artificial intelligence/machine learning (AI/ML) generated insights available to workers in 
diverse fields of business and government.  Alteryx is also committed to the safe and 
responsible governance of AI, with all of our AI work governed by our Responsible AI 
Principles ( https://www.alteryx.com/trust/ai-principles ).  Thus, as an integrator, user, and deployer of responsible AI systems, Alteryx has a significant interest in an AI Action Plan 
to identify priority policy actions needed to sustain and enhance America's AI dominance, 
and to ensure that unnecessarily burdensome requirements do not hamper private-sector 
AI innovation.   
As you work to develop the AI Action Plan, we encourage you to address priority policy 
actions. First, unlocking AI innovation across economic sectors and diverse use cases 
depends on building necessary AI infrastructure, beginning with the data layer. We 
encourage near-term policy action to invest in getting the data layer right, including by 
magnifying efforts within the government to address data challenges and by facilitating 
such investments in the private sector as well.  Second, given the increasing complexity 
of the AI ecosystem and the rapid evolution of the technology, it is critical that policies 
accurately characterize roles of key stakeholders. Current understandings of roles and 
responsibilities must be updated to reflect a more nuanced view of the AI value chain, or 
else many companies – like ours – will suffer from mistargeted policies.   


17200 Laguna Canyon Road
Irvine, CA 92618
2www.alteryx.com  Getting the Data Layer Right  
To fully leverage the potential of AI to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of 
government functions, organizations require sufficient infrastructure to support the 
integration and operation of AI tools. One critical component of that infrastructure is the 
data layer: the structured and high-quality data necessary to ensure that AI systems can 
access accurate information, which directly impacts their performance and reliability. 
Further, utilization of a quality data layer ensures that organizations have the ability to 
responsibly manage, access, and share that data across stovepipes. Simply put, artificial 
intelligence is only as good as the data it consumes.  
Currently, many organizations – including in government – are rushing to adopt AI 
without addressing underlying data challenges that will hamper their ability to get the 
most out of the AI tools they introduce. Such challenges include data quality (data is of 
poor quality and often unstructured); data access  (organizational barriers and well-
intended policies prevent necessary access and sharing); and data literacy 
(organizations often lack an understanding of the potential uses and value of the data 
they have, or how to best use that data to build and support AI solutions).   
The AI Action Plan must address the data layer to truly accelerate AI adoption and spur 
American innovation. Specifically, the AI Action Plan should prioritize three initiatives to 
get the data layer right: 
(1)Invest in data infrastructure. The government must invest, first, in digitizing its
data, given that enormous volumes of highly valuable data remain in paper form.
Moreover, it must invest in technologies that enable the structuring, cleaning, and
preparation of that data into usable forms. Agency Chief Data Officers (CDOs)
must be empowered and resourced to identify and overcome data quality
challenges across US government agencies.  Moreover, the government can help
encourage private sector organizations to address data quality challenges by
placing greater emphasis on the data layer in all relevant AI guidance, standards,
and best practices it publishes.
(2)Democratize data access.  More must be done across the government to
advance data transparency and accessibility. Data-driven decision-making can
happen at the speed of relevance only when data is democratized – when all
workers are empowered to become data workers. The AI Action Plan should
include an urgent push to establish appropriate policies and guardrails to enable
responsible sharing of data inside the government, beginning with CDO-led
agency reviews of policies and organizational structures posing obstacles to
necessary data access.
(3) Promote data literacy. As AI is mainstreamed in the government and across
industry, the vast majority of workers will become data workers; these workers
must be equipped with modern and continuous training—including learning
through applied exercises and experimentation—to wrangle and automate data to


17200 Laguna Canyon Road
Irvine, CA 92618
3www.alteryx.com  solve mission problems. The AI Action Plan should include a major AI literacy 
push for government workers, based on a foundation of data literacy. Moreover, 
AI literacy will be critical, not just for government workers, but also for workers 
across industry. The AI Action Plan should also develop an ambitious AI and data 
literacy initiative to provide awareness, education, and upskilling to a major 
portion of the American workforce over the next five years – including through 
sponsoring grants, public-private collaborations, and similar efforts.  
These three priority actions will help the government build a durable foundation, both 
internally and across industry, for the adoption, innovation, and transformative 
application of artificial intelligence.   
Defining Roles and Responsibilities in an Evolving AI Ecosystem 
A second critical priority is to update policy frameworks to more accurately characterize 
key roles and responsibilities across the AI ecosystem.  The AI ecosystem is best 
understood as a value chain, with multiple organizations potentially contributing to the 
development and refinement of an AI system that ultimately interacts with an end user.  
Alteryx occupies a role in the center of this value chain, by training, modifying, and 
integrating foundation models developed by other organizations into applications that 
may be used directly by end users, or that may be further refined by other enterprise 
customers.   
To accurately reflect this value chain and to avoid confusion and mistargeted policy or 
regulatory interventions, current AI policy must be redefined to include a broader set of 
roles within the AI development chain ( e.g., model developers, integrators, application 
developers, deployers) and delineate their specific obligations to end-users. Greater 
specificity of roles and responsibilities will help align structural incentives across the 
board. 
Within the AI value chain, developers of foundation models clearly take actions that 
fundamentally shape any AI system based on that model, and shape the capabilities and 
risks associated with the model. However, AI application developers or actors who 
otherwise integrate foundation models into broader systems often take measures – 
including training the model with new data sets, adjusting model weights, prompt 
engineering, incorporating privacy and security controls, and creating user interfaces – 
that also impact the capabilities and risks associated with the model.  Before an AI 
system is deployed to interact with an end user, there may be two, three, or more 
organizations that modify the original model. US AI policy should explicitly recognize this 
complexity and establish best practices that take it into account.  
The AI Action Plan should prioritize a comprehensive review of AI policies to update 
roles and responsibilities to include, at minimum, developers, integrators, and deployers. 
Additional roles may also deserve consideration. The impact of this review will be to 
avoid confusion or ambiguity within US AI policies that can lead to inappropriate 


17200 Laguna Canyon Road
Irvine, CA 92618
4www.alteryx.com  mistargeting of policy or regulatory actions, undermining the ability of companies to 
innovate and collaborate in this arena. Moreover, updating AI policies to more accurately 
characterize the roles of key stakeholders will set an important paradigm that other 
policymakers – particularly among US states – can look to, thus avoiding misguided 
regulations that bog down innovation with compliance obligations that simply cannot be 
met.  Prioritizing this action is essential if the United States is to reach its full potential in 
AI innovation. 
Conclusion  
AI technologies offer tremendous potential benefits for our economy, security, 
government, and society. The US government has a tremendous opportunity to lead the 
development of policies that help government workers and private industry fully unlock its 
potential.  Alteryx looks forward to working with you to define policies that will empower 
American innovation and enable users – from governments to businesses to private 
individuals – to access transformative solutions to real-world challenges.  We stand 
ready for further discussions on the AI Action Plan and the priority policy actions we 
recommend.  
Sincerely, 
Tommy Ross 
Head of Global Public Policy | ALTERYX  


