Comments of Amazon  
Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Amazon welcomes the opportunity to respond to the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP)’s 
February 6 , 2025 request for information  on issues related to the development of  an AI Action Plan . U.S. 
leadership  on AI policy  is vital to ensure  that AI’s benefits  are realized throughout the economy and 
society.  
As Vice President J.D. Vance said in recent remarks, AI can enable “countless, revolutionary applications 
in economic innovation, job creation, national security, health care, free expression, and beyond.” 
Amazon has long believed that AI has the potential to transform every sec tor of the economy – 
advancing drug development and the treatment of disease, transforming agriculture  and creating 
efficiencies for businesses of all kinds. This is why Amazon is investing in generative AI and the 
development and deployment of foundation models across all of our businesses; and why we support 
and provide resources for our Amazon Web Services (AWS) customers to do the same. Through Amazon 
Bedrock , we provide customers with access to a wide range of third -party models, in addition to 
Amazon’s own models.  
Amazon’s perspectives on AI are informed by our dual role as a developer  of AI technology and a 
deployer  of AI tools and services. Across Amazon, we’ve been developing and deploying state of the art 
AI and machine learning models to  power customer experiences for over 25 years —for both customer -
facing services and internal operations —from the recommendation engines that personalize the 
shopping experience on Amazon.com to the AI -powered robots that optimize order fulfillment in our 
warehouses. We’ve launched entirely new businesses based on AI, like Alexa , our general purpose, 
personal AI.   
AWS plays a key role in helping organizations across industry sectors leverage AI to improve their 
productivity, enhance their competitivene ss, and better serve their customers. AWS offers the broadest 
and deepest portfolio of AI and ML services for cloud customers, empowering developers to build, train, 
and deploy their own ML models or easily incorporate pre -trained AI functionality. From th e most 
performant, scalable infrastructure for ML training and inference to managed API -based capabilities, we 
provide customers with a broad range of options to help them benefit from AI.  The Amazon  Bedrock 
foundation model (FM) service enables customers to experiment with a variety of high -performing FMs 
from leading AI companies, such as AI21 Labs, Anthropic, Cohere, Meta, Mistral AI, Stability AI, and 
Amazon itself. Amazon Bedrock allows organizations of all sizes and across industries to find the best FM 
for their use case, evaluate different models, switch between them, and integrate them into their 
applications, all in a secure environment. In December  2024 , launched  Amazon Nova, a new generation 
of state -of-the-art FMs that deliver frontier intelligence and industry leading price performance . Amazon 
Nova  models include three understanding and two creative content generation models, and can be used  
to lower costs and latency for almost any generative AI task. Organizations  can build on Amazon Nova to 
analyze complex documents and videos, understand charts and diagrams, generate engaging video 
content, and build sophisticated AI agents  from across a range of intelligence classes optimized for 
enterpris e workloads.   
Amazon wel comes the Trump administration’s leadership in developing an AI Action Plan to enable 


Amazon Comments to RFI on the Development of an AI Action Plan  Page 2 
innovation and widespread adoption of AI technologies across industries, create jobs, and drive benefits 
for all Americans.  Our economic and national security interests are best served by policies that enhance 
technological dynamism and open markets. While U .S. companies have long been the most innovative in 
the world, such technology leadership cannot be taken for granted. Below, we propose 
recommendations to ensure that AI innovation will thrive across our own economy, and that U .S. 
companies will be able to lead on a global scale.  
1.Promote U.S. technology leadership abroad. For AI innovation to continue to be driven by U.S.
companies, it is vital for the administration  to take action to shape the global regulatory
environment for AI  by partnering with our allies across the globe . Overly restrictive  AI regulatory
efforts in some j urisdictions could impede AI adoption by capturing low -risk use  cases with
burdensome regulation, imposing ambiguous regulatory burdens on developers of AI rather
than the deployers that are closer to the use -case, extending copyright laws extraterr itorially in
ways that could constrain American companies from innovating in the U.S. and around the
world, and ultimately undermining global interoperability of U.S. AI products and services.  We
encourage the administration to engage with foreign gover nments to promote policies that
foster innovation, promote competition, and enable the adoption of best -in-class technologies.
Consistent with Vice President Vance’s message at the Paris AI Action Summit, it is vital that the 
AI Action Plan makes clear th at the U.S. leadership in AI does not mean that “we want or need 
to go it alone” and that the U.S. welcomes partnership in the “spirit of openness and 
collaboration.” Indeed, a key element of America’s comparative advantage has been that U.S. 
technology pr oviders are perceived as reliable partners for businesses around the world. It will 
therefore be very important for the administration to offer an affirmative, pro -competitive 
vision as it engages with trading partners to address regulatory challenges.   
The administration’s engagement should also be guided by a recognition that U.S. technological 
leadership is enhanced through the global partnerships and infrastructure investments of U.S. 
cloud service providers. AWS is proud to provide infrastructure and clou d services that power 
the global business community. We are also privileged to provide critical technological support 
for the national security communities of many of America’s most enduring allies. U.S. companies 
have the most sophisticated and secure tec hnology to host government workloads, which are 
essential to national security.  To support this mission, AWS makes significant investments in the 
U.S. and in the dozens of countries in which we operate our regions. Maintaining a positive 
presence in inter national markets strengthens U.S. global leadership and national security while 
empowering allied nations. AWS’s investments in digital infrastructure, both here and abroad, 
are long -term capital investments in permanent physical structures that reflect ou r enduring 
commitment to business continuity. Our U.S. and international customers rely on AWS, and we 
are committed to supporting our customers with these investments. As the Administration 
focuses on ensuring a level playing field for American businesses , it is also imperative that the 
U.S. government supports the success of American businesses abroad.  Thus, it is critical that 
new technologies like secure generative AI  and quantum  are built on secure, resilient American 
cloud technology and infras tructure globally.  The Administration should send clear signals to 
allies and partners that it supports American companies' investments, and will assure their 
continuity of  service to promote their innovation, growth and success abroad. In turn, American 


Amazon Comments to RFI on the Development of an AI Action Plan  Page 3 
companies want to be treated fairly and not be subject to asymmetric regulations or 
discriminatory requirements based on their revenue, activity, their nationality or the lo cation of 
their global headquarters. The Administration should advance reforms that support secure cloud 
and AI adoption, in the U.S. and allied countries, and avoid discriminatory actions that can 
disadvantage American companies, hamper innovation and ina dvertently lead to less secure and 
less resilient technology that equally endangers the capacity for businesses to scale 
internationally.  
We there fore encourage  the administration should take a leadership role in global discussions 
around AI, including by promoting global regulatory interoperability through international 
standards that promote AI adoption. The goal should be to reduce friction for U.S. businesses 
seeking to operate across jurisdictions by streamlining compliance. Significant work by industry 
and the U.S. government has already produced important international standards, such as 
ISO/IEC 420001:20 23. In addition to promoting existing standards, federal agencies should be 
encouraged to work with industry to drive the development of international standards that 
position U.S. companies for global competitiveness. Success in promoting interoperable glo bal 
technical standards will be enhanced by continued leadership of our key science agencies, 
including the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). NIST’s collaboration with 
industry on the development of the AI Risk Management Framework hel ped lay the foundation 
for the “risk -based approach” to AI policymaking.  
2.Unlock the energy capacity needed to meet growing needs. Today, capacity on the U.S. electric
grid is a major consideration for investment in critical industries. In order to pres erve U.S.
leadership in generative AI and emerging technologies, the U.S. needs to ensure we have the
electric capacity to meet our needs, including additional transmission lines and electricity
generation. New investments in transmission and generation infrastructure need to be
prioritized, accelerated and permitted in short order to scale with the demands AI workloads
require. We support efforts to accelerate and streamline federal permitting for energy
infrastructure to build out the Ame rican grid quickly to meet business growth for AI and other
areas of electrification.  We also support rules that expedite the interconnection of new
generation that take a holistic view of increasing energy demands. For example, we support
reforms to impro ve the transmission planning and generator interconnection processes and the
development of policies enabling co -location of large customers with electric generators.
Nuclear energy will also play a critical role in meeting AI energy demands in the United  States. 
Amazon is investing in nuclear energy, including by signing agreements to enable new small 
modular reactor (SMR) technologies , investing directly in advanced nuclear companies providing 
SMR technologies, and supporting existing nuclear facilities to aid their long -term financial 
health. SMRs are an advanced kind of nuclear reactor with a smaller physical footprint, allowing 
them to be built closer to the customers they serve. They also have faster build times than 
traditional reactors, allowing the m to come online sooner. However, advanced nuclear projects 
have not  been built at scale and can struggle with traditional financing models. Successful 
deployment of new technologies  like SMRs, carbon capture and storage, and advanced 
geothermal  will require continued federal funding  and low -cost loans  through the U.S. 
Department of Energy to support commercial pathways  until traditional financing models can 


Amazon Comments to RFI on the Development of an AI Action Plan  Page 4 
better support them.  
3.Invest in the domestic workforce to encourage broad adoption of AI a cross the U .S. economy.
To secure the benefits of AI across the economy, widespread adoption is as important as
innovation. Successful AI deployment —not just breakthrough innovations —creates better jobs,
higher wages, and improved living standards. To ensure that the adoption of AI is widespread
across the U .S. economy, we believe there is a need for broader workforce education initiatives
focused on practical AI implementation rather than just advanced technical training. The U .S.
must si multaneously invest in more advanced AI researchers and engineers, as well as enabling
millions of workers across different sectors to effectively use AI tools in their daily work.
To help upskill and reskill the workforce in AI development and adoption,  AWS committed to 
provide free training for cloud and AI skills to 29 million people by the end of 2025. In fact, we 
have  exceeded this goal , having already train ed 31 million people and counting. In April 2024, 
Amazon also committed to invest $25 m illion over 10 years through a new research partnership 
with the University of Washington, the University of Tsukuba, and NVIDIA to support new AI 
research funding, post -doctoral and PhD fellowships, a 10 -week undergraduate summer 
research program, and a t hree -week entrepreneurship bootcamp program. In 2024, we also 
launched the AWS Public Sector Generative Artificial Intelligence Impact Initiative . The two -year, 
$50 million investment is designed to help public sector organizations –and those that directly 
support their technology needs –to accelerate innovation in support of critical missions using 
AWS generative AI services and infrastructure. AWS’ s AI and ML Scholarship Program  has 
awarded $28 million in scholarships to approximately 6,000 students to prepare them for a 
career in AI. Through our AI Ready campaign, Amazon is committed to providing free AI training 
to two million people, focusing on practical skills that enable workers to leverage AI solutions 
without requiring advanced degrees in computer science.  
We encourage the administration to similarly prioritize broad -based AI literacy programs that 
can accelerate adoption across the econ omy, and particularly small and medium -sized 
businesses. Such programs should focus on helping business leaders identify AI opportunities, 
enabling workers to effectively use AI tools, and ensuring small businesses have the knowledge 
needed to successfully  implement AI solutions. This approach to AI skills development - 
emphasizing practical implementation over purely technical training - will be critical to ensuring 
U.S. leadership in AI translates into economy -wide productivity gains and corresponding glo bal 
leadership.  
4.Enable AI to bolster national security and defense. U.S. leadership in AI is critical to American
national security interests. Maintaining AI leadership in national security and defense requires
increased and sustained AI infrastructure investment in government -specific and classified
environments. The U .S. government should prioritize use of AI capab ilities available through
commercial cloud technologies. For example, Amazon Bedrock is now generally available in the
AWS Top Secret cloud . With authority to operate in the AWS Top Secret cloud , Amazon Bedrock
is providing U.S. government customers with secure access to foundation models and
generative AI capabilities within AWS’s classified environment , enabling customers to leverage
generative AI capabilities while maintaining the highest levels of security and data protection


Amazon Comments to RFI on the Development of an AI Action Plan  Page 5 
 
required for their top-secre t work loads.  
 
The U .S. Government should also  seek to advance  AI adoption in the U .S. national security 
community. By providing public sector users access to AI tools, they can better understand and 
iterate on how AI can further the U .S. national security and de fense missions. Industry would be 
better positioned to provide the capacity the community needs with clearer demand signals 
from the government, including clearer requirements, and increased adoption , while  also 
adding resilience and elasticity. Strong a doption also helps companies  rapidly deploy and adjust 
AI systems to meet mission needs on the correct infrastructure.   
 
The US government should also consider how to leverage AI to address risks to national security, 
such as how AI can support efforts to enhance cyber defense.   Additional research and 
collaboration between the administration and the private sector would be fruitful in this 
important area.  
 
5. Unlock AI’s potential within the public sector.  Rapid progress in AI presents an opportunity for 
transformative innovation across the public sector. Cloud is uniquely effective in enabling 
modernization while supporting new entrants to the public sector AI ecosystem. By leveraging 
innovative commercial offerings such as marketplaces for cloud -native applications, managed 
servi ces, and hardware, agencies gain access to responsive AI innovation. The administration 
should encourage agencies to use existing best practices in technology contracting to ensure 
efficiency and responsible innovation across federal agencies. Further, age ncies should migrate 
away from  legacy, on -premises data centers in order to take advantage of cloud capabilities. 
Current regulatory procedures for commercial contracting enable flexible procurement of AI and 
government purchasing officials should be directed to use these methods to the greatest extent 
practicable. The administration’s AI emphasis can reinvigorate us e of commercial acquisition 
methods throughout federal agencies.  
 
Cloud migration has become a cornerstone for federal agencies seeking to modernize their 
digital operations and unlock mission success while cutting costs. By shifting from legacy on -
premise s infrastructure to scalable cloud solutions, agencies can reduce costs , increase 
operational agility, and meet evolving mission demands with greater speed and efficiency. 
Beyond cost savings, cloud migration enables federal agencies to deliver on their  core missions 
with unprecedented efficiency. Modern AI and data analytics solutions deployed in the cloud 
allow agencies to harness real -time insights and automate processes, ultimately improving 
public services and national security outcomes. For example , the U.S. Air Force provides a 
compelling example of how AI -driven solutions can enhance mission readiness. By leveraging 
predictive maintenance solutions powered by AWS and C3 AI, the U.S. Air Force uses AI 
algorithms and data analytics to monitor operat ions, detect anomalies, and predict potential 
equipment failures before they occur. This proactive approach helps reduce downtime and 
ensures more aircraft are ready for flight, improving operational availability while lowering 
maintenance costs.  We encour age the administration to empower federal agencies to increase 
velocity of AI ado ption across civilian, defense, and intelligence mission areas.  
 


Amazon Comments to RFI on the Development of an AI Action Plan  Page 6 
6.Ensure existing  regulation  remain s fit for purpose. Amazon has long been a supporter of a
sectoral approach to AI regulation, acknowledging that a prescriptive, “horizontal” approach is
unlikely to be effective, may create unnecessary burdens for innovation, and would ignore
robust legal frameworks already in place.  We urge the administration  to ensure tha t agencies
charged with enforcing existing technology -neutral laws and sector -specific regulations are
equipped to oversee the use of AI within their domains.
Organizations develop and deploy AI systems a gainst the backdrop of an array of existing laws 
and regulatory requirements that help protect the public against potential unintended 
consequences. Nonetheless, there may be areas in which AI will raise novel questions that may 
require adjustments to exis ting laws and regulations. A sector -based approach will empower 
existing agencies to identify real gaps in legislation and regulation, avoiding redundancy and 
over -regulation.  
One emerging area of regulatory difficulty that could impede the competitivene ss of U .S. 
industry is the growing patchwork of approaches to AI regulation across the U .S. states , which 
has the potential to create a significant headwind for US innovation, as businesses struggle to 
comply with a variety of diverging standards . In the a bsence of a clearly articulated federal 
vision about how AI should be governed, there is a substantial risk that states will seek to fill the 
perceived void . 
7.Encourage the development of appropriate risk -based governance practices in the private
sector.  Amazon and other U .S. companies are engaged in significant efforts to build AI with
robust governance mechanisms to address AI risk. Through organizations such as the Frontier
Model Forum, the Partnership on AI , and others, companies are de veloping best practices
regarding prevention of risk in AI development.  Given the geopolitical significance of frontier
capabilities, we recommend that the administration maintain government capacity to
collaborate with the private sector on a voluntary ba sis to evaluate advanced models for
potential national security risks. Maintaining a pathway for public -private collaboration will help
advance the science behind capability evaluations, for national security risks , including the
potential that models migh t aid  the development of chemical, biological, radiological and
nuclear (CBRN)  and advanced cyber  threats. We believe the U .S. government has an important
role to play in ongoing engagement with industry on our work in risk mitigation of this kind,
through  convenings, sharing best practice s, and encouraging the private sector to adopt
appropriate governance -based risk -mitigation practices. U.S. government leadership in this
space is also vital for shaping global norms at a time when foreign governments are investing
heavily in building out their own AI national security evaluation capabilities.
8.Support the National Artificial Intelligence Research Resource (NAIRR). In his January 23
Executive Order launching the President’s Council of Advisors on Science  and Technology,
President Trump recognized the important research and innovations that initiatives like the
National Science Foundation’s NAIRR can advance. The need for a large -scale collaborative
research resource has become more pressing as the data an d computational resources required
for cutting edge AI research continues to grow. We regard the NAIRR as an important
opportunity to ensure academic and government researchers have access the fundamental


Amazon Comments to RFI on the Development of an AI Action Plan  Page 7 
building blocks that are necessary for modern AI re search. Amazon is a contributing partner and 
pledged to support at least 20 research projects through access to AWS services to build, train 
and deploy AI models.  
The credits donated by technology developers for NAIRR will conclude at the end of the two -
year pilot. We encourage the administration and Congress to enable scientists access to the 
resources they need to develop transformational AI solutions and address many of society’s 
greatest challenges by advancing the NAIRR Task Force recommendations on p roject support . 


