1 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution. 
American Security Fund, the advocacy organization securing American technological 
superiority by 1) facilitating American technological innovation, 2) protecting American technological security, and 3) promoting human-centered artificial intelligence (AI), submits the following public comments on the development of the AI Action Plan:  
Goal 1: Facilitate A merican Technological Innovation  
Four industries underpin the AI ecosystem: 1) semiconductors (chips); 2) digital infrastructure ( internet, compute); 3) energy; and 4) AI itself. All four must be empowered. 
Recommendation 1A: Maintain American Chip Advantages 
With a few  exceptions – namely, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) 
in Taiwan and Samsung in South Korea – U.S. companies 1) comprise much of the global 
semiconductor industry , boasting an ecosystem that includes Nvidia, Broadcom, Texas 
Instruments, Qualcomm, Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), Applied Materials, Micron, Intel, GlobalFoundries, and others and 2) produce more sophisticated chips than their Chinese and other global competitors. ASF assesses the  single most important U.S. policy to 
maintain  both of these equilibria is the imposition and enforcement of export 
controls . Accordingly, ASF recommends the Trump Administration: 
•Maintain existing U.S. export controls on advanced chips, especially graphic
processing units (GPUs).
•Expand existing U.S. export controls to include GPUs that have been invented or
advanced since the last round of U.S. export controls went into effect in October2023 – notably, the H20, the primary GPU  Nvidia has been exporting to China and
selling to Chinese companies, including news-making DeepSeek and hyperscalersAlibaba, Tencent, and Bytedance.
•Maintain the existing three-tier system for enforcing U.S. export controls,
concentrating on enforcing the compliance of Tier 2 countries’ non-export of
compute to Tier 3 countries.


2 
Recommendation 1B: Continue to Mobilize Private Investment in American Digital 
Infrastructure 
Building on Stargate’s momentum, ASF recommends the Trump Administration continue 
to mobilize private investment in American digital infrastructure, including the data centers crucial to compute. 
Recommendation 1C: Match Investment in Digital Infrastructure with Equal or Greater 
Investment in Energy 
Recognizing compute’s energy consumption – and experts’ estimates that the United 
States  will need to add 50GW or more to our grid to account for it – ASF recommends the 
Trump Administration match its mobilization of private investment in American digital infrastructure with equal or greater investment in energy, especially nuclear energy, 
including  small modular reactors (SMRs), nuclear fusion, and other innovative 
approaches. 
Recommendation 1D: Protect U.S. AI Companies from Shocks, Espionage, and Stagnancy  
ASF assesses U.S. AI companies have three main vulnerabilities: shocks, espionage, 
and stagnancy. Accordingly, ASF recommends the Trump Administration: 
•Protect U.S. AI companies from shocks, especially by preserving  Taiwan’s
security: While ASF commends the Trump Administration’s incentivization of the
domestic manufacture of chips, we also observe that domestic manufacture is not
always feasible; it is not always cost efficient for companies with foreign
headquarters  or global reach. In these cases, ASF recommends the Trump
Administration prioritize protecting U.S. AI companies from the shocks that wouldresult from the disruption of the global flow of GP Us by focusing on Taiwan (whose
TSMC produces many of the world’s GPUs), continuing  to preserve both Taiwan’s
physical security and Taiwan’s economic security, including by continuing efforts todocument and deter economic coercion against it .


3 
•Protect U.S. AI companies from espionage by creating a system they can opt
into to avail themselves of United States Government (USG )
counterintelligence  tools and talents : As U.S. industry invests billions of dollars
to develop  frontier AI models, it remains possible for China and other adversarial
actors to steal them  through  comparatively inexpensive espionage. ASF welcomed
the Biden Administration’s AI National Security Memorandum (NSM)’s extension ofU.S. counterintelligence to the U.S. AI industry . But ASF encourages the Trump
Administration to go further: to invoke existing laws – including the DefenseProduction Act (1950), Homeland Security Act (2002), SAFETY Act (2002), andCybersecurity Enhancement Act (2014) – to create a system U.S. AI companies can
opt into to avail themselves of USG counterintelligence  tools and talents to protect
themselves from espionage and its components, including sabotage, theft,manipulation, and other forms of unauthorized access and  use, and to reward U.S.
AI companies that opt into the system with a certification granting them preferentialaccess to USG contracts.
•Protect U.S. AI companies from stagnancy by encouraging their capitalization,
including through deregulation and efforts to prevent market volatility that could
risk disincentivizing investors.
Goal 2: Protect American Technological Security  
For American innovation to flourish, American technology must be safe and secure – in the USG, in U.S. industry , and in exchanges between the two. 
Recommendation 2A: Continue to accelerate USG adoption of AI 
Building on previous progress, ASF recommends the Trump Administration: 
•Continue to direct the Office of Personnel Management (OPM ), the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB), and other relevant agencies to reform USG hiring
and retention practices to better attract AI talent.
•Continue directing agencies to reform  their acquisition and contracting practices to
make it easier for U.S. AI companies to contribute to U.S.  national security .
•Continue to direct the Department of Justice (DoJ), the Department of Defense
(DoD), and the Intelligence Community to examine and report how existing policies
and procedures related to legal obligatio ns (privacy, civil liberties) could be revised
to accelerate the adoption of AI without compromising these  obligations.
•Likewise, c ontinue to direct agencies to examine and report how existing policies
and procedures related to cybersecurity could be revised to accelerate the
adoption of AI without compromising cybersecurity.


 
 4  
 
Recommendation 2B: Continue to scale U.S. military applications of AI 
Recognizing that our adversaries are alread y integrating  AI into their military capabilities, 
ASF recommends the Trump Administration direct the DoD to increase its adoption of AI 
(autonomous and semi-autonomous systems) by modernizing its acquisition policies to 
both encourage and reward innovation.  ASF further recommends the Trump 
Administration direct the DoD to:  
• Establish policies to improve communication of warfighter needs to technology 
industries, including mechanisms for rapid feedback from operators to developers and incentives for developers to be responsive to highest priority needs. 
• Continue to enforce  DoD Directive 3000.09. Identify and adapt cumbersome 
policies that could interfere with its adoption. 
• Continue to work to improve data interoperability with Five Eye (FVEY) and other allied partners. 
 Recommendation 2C: Test, monitor, and manage AI risk 
While in the private sector, many U.S. AI companies, specifically their frontier red teams, are testing their frontier AI models for biological, chemical, nuclear, and other risks and 
reporting their findings to the USG, and in the public sector, the U.S. Artificial Intelligence 
Safety Institute ( AISI) – currently reporting to the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology  (NIST) at the Commerce Department – is testing frontier AI models for similar 
risks, ASF recommends the Trump Administration strengthen these efforts by taking the 
following actions : 
• Formally re-assign USG responsibility for “AI safety” from the Department of 
Commerce to the Department of Energy, whose National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) is both experienced and expert at maintaining the safety of our nuclear weapons and national laboratori es. 
o On this subject, ASF endorses the re -assignment of AISI’s full-time 
employees (FTEs ) from Commerce/NIST to Energy. 
o ASF recommends Commerce/NIST continue to be responsible for setting standards and engaging with U.S. industry about them. 
o ASF recommends the White House and National Security Council, including the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) and #TechNatSec, continue to be responsible for convening agencies to cohere and leverage USG tools to ensure AI remains safe and secure. 
  


5 
•In addition to endorsing the reconstituted AISI  continuing to test U.S. AI models for
biological, chemical, nuclear, and other risks, endorse them testing all open-source
models, includ ing DeepSeek’s, and devel oping assessments of what those models
could do that could be dangerous, especially inside the United States.
•In the USG classification system, compartmentalize both information about AI and
work on AI – essentially, create an equivalent of a Q clearance for AI – to help keep it
secure.
•Invoke the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEPPA ) to forbid certain
foreign -owned AI and AI application companies (largely based in Tier 3 export
control countries) from operating in the United States.
oOn this subject, ASF assesses that non-messaging, non-social mediacompanies – in other words, companies whose primary purpose is not tofacilitate human communication – do not meet the “personalcommunications” or “informational materials” exceptions that TikTok andWeChat have invoked to justify their operations in the United States.
Recommendation 2D: Friendshore and nearshore AI elements, especially chips, to 
reinforce global latticework of American allies and partners 
Per Recommendation 1D, in all cases in which chip manufacture occurs outside the 
United Sates, ASF recommends the Trump Administration incentivize its friendshoring and 
nearshoring , including by taking the following actions: 
•Resource the Department of Commerce, especially the Foreign Commercial
Service (FCS), to help U.S. companies operate in allied and partner countries,
especially in downstream stages of the chip process – for example, to establishOutsourced Semiconductor Assembly and Test (OSAT) facilities to conductassembly, testing, and packaging (ATP).
•Work with Congress to remove barriers to the Export-Import Bank of the UnitedStates (EXIM), especially its China and Transformational Exports Program (CTEP),
and the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) financing suchprojects.
oOn this subject, ASF notes EXIM must be reauthorized by December 31,2026.
oDFC must be authorized more urgently – by October 5, 2025 – and in ASF’sassessment, with more adjustments, including the ability to finance projectsin Upper Middle-Income Countries (UMICs) and certain High-IncomeCountries (HICs).


6 
•Build ing on President Trump and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s early and
productive calls and meetings, as well as Prime Minister Modi’s intention to host
the next Quad Summit in India in fall 2025, maintain and deepen the U.S. -India
Initiative on Critical and Emerging Technology (iCET).
•Maintain and deepen critical and emerging technologies dialogues andpartnerships with Japan, South Korea, Singapore, Costa Rica, Mexico, and any otherallies and partners that want to step up to the task.
Goal 3: Promote Human-Centered AI  
As AI continues to advance, it must remain understandable by humans, accountab le to 
humans, and ultimately subordinate to humans. 
Goal 3A: Engage American civil society about potential misuses of AI, including advocacy 
organizations focused on the education and protection of children, including the 
organizations collaborating with Congress and the First Lady of the United States (FLOTUS) 
to implement The Take It Down Act, and faith organizations that could help distill principles 
about human dignity, integrity, and freedom that could  in turn help inform effective  
policymaking. 
•On this subject, ASF commends the seven U.S. AI companies that, in July 2023,voluntarily committed to being held accountable for safety, security, and trust:Amazon, Anthropic, Google, Inflection, Meta, Microsoft, and OpenAI.
Goal 3B: Adapt regulation of biology and medicine to enable AI to extend and improve 
human life 
AI – namely, its beyond-human capacities to analyze data and execute calculations – has tremendous current and future applications to biology and medicine, including to cure major diseases that have plagued humans for centuries. But regulation will have to adjust 
to its speed. Accordingly, ASF recommends the Trump Administration task relevant 
agencies to examine and report how existing policies and procedures, especially related to 
approvals of new drugs, therapies, and treatments, could be revised to embrace AI’s accelerated achievements without compromising human safety or  dignity. 


 
 7  
 
Goal 3C: Continue to dialogue with the Chinese Government about AI safety , with the goal 
of protecting the peoples of both countries and the world from AI red lines – namely, 
autonomous AI acting independent of humans 
While ASF recognizes the many opacities and challenges surrounding the Chinese AI 
industry and  Chinese Government, we also recognize 1) their AI progress and  2) their and 
our precedents of negotiating mutually beneficial limitations on would-be weapons or threats, even in the midst of tensions.  Accordingly, while the Trump Administration endeavors to hold the Chinese Government accountable in AI and other fields , ASF 
recommends the Trump Administration also continue to dialogue with the Chinese 
Government about AI safety; continue to make the dialogue concrete; a nd therefore, 
continue to focus the dialogue on mutual opposition to autonomous AI acting independent 
of humans, especially in the deployment of nuclear weapons. 
 Goal 4: Incorporate all efforts to develop and leverage AI into USG strategic planning 
Finally, with respect for the institutions and processes of government, ASF recommends the Trump Administration direct the team writing the National Security Strategy (#StratPlan, #TechNatSec, others) and the equivalent team writing the National Defense Strategy at the Pentagon to identify concrete, time-bound, measurable steps to implement these recommendations in both the unclassified and unclassified versions of the strategies.  
ASF – based in Washington, DC and led by former policymakers – would welcome the 
opportunity to continue to discuss its recommendations, including strategies to implement 
them.  


