From:
To:Subject:Date:Amit Sahai
ostp-ai-rfi
[External] AI Action Plan
Friday, February 7, 2025 5:40:59 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Individual Submission by:  
Amit Sahai
For background purposes only, please see brief biographical sketch below.
This brief note is to encourage the Action Plan to create a large-scale centralized GPU
computing facility for AI research, where US researchers from all research fields canparticipate. Priorities or usage budgets should be determined solely on merit, but not requiringthe time-consuming process of proposal writing and evaluation. Instead, each applicant cansubmit up to 3 lifetime awards that they have won, and there can be a pre-published "scorechart" that assigns scores to a variety of major research awards across different fields. Thescores corresponding to the 3 awards would be added, and this would determine priority orusage budgets for the applicant for the next period (e.g. 1 year). Awards should be easilyverifiable and significant, for example being named a Fellow of a major research society(across disciplines), or major awards given by research societies and the National Academies.Allowing applicants to only submit 3 awards disincentivizes award-spamming. This processwould obviate the need for expensive and delay-inducing proposal writing and review, andinstead reward proven track records of innovation. This would also encourage highly creativescientists who have not previously thought about working on AI to work on AI research.
Bio Sketch:
Amit Sahai is a Professor of Computer Science and (by courtesy) Mathematics at UCLA, andthe incumbent of the Symantec Endowed Chair in Computer Science. He also serves as anAdvisor to the Prison Mathematics Project. His primary research interests are in cryptography,coding theory, complexity theory, and security. He is the co-inventor of attribute-basedencryption, functional encryption, and indistinguishability obfuscation. He was an invitedlecturer at the 2022 International Congress of Mathematicians (ICM 2022, Special SectionalLecture), and received the 2022 National Academy of Sciences Held Prize for his role in thedevelopment of indistinguishability obfuscation. His research works have been recognized byfive Test of Time Awards (STOC 2024, FOCS 2023, Eurocrypt 2023, Eurocrypt 2020, ACMCCS 2016), a STOC 2021 Best Paper Award, and a 2024 EMNLP Outstanding Paper Award.For his teaching, he was given the 2016 Lockheed Martin Excellence in Teaching Award fromthe Samueli School of Engineering at UCLA. Many years ago, he was a member of the 1996World Champion ACM ICPC Team from UC Berkeley. He is also a Simons Investigator(2021), Fellow of the ACM (2018), Fellow of the IACR (2019), and Fellow of the AMS(2024).
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the governmentin developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.


All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.
If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


