American Mathematical Society 
Response to the RFI: AI Action Plan 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development 
(NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO), National Science Foundation. 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution. 
The American Mathematical Society (AMS) is the largest professional organization for 
mathematicians in the world. Founded in 1888 to further the interests of mathematical 
research and scholarship, it serves the national and international community through its 
publications, meetings, advocacy and other programs, which 
●promote mathematical research, its communication and uses,
●encourage and promote the transmission of mathematical understanding and
skills,
●support mathematical education at all levels,
●advance the status of the profession of mathematics, encouraging and facilitating
full participation of all individuals,
●foster an awareness and appreciation of mathematics and its connections to
other disciplines and everyday life.
AMS is one of the world’s leading publishers of mathematical books and journals and 
operates the MathSciNet indexing service for mathematical sciences publications. It 
sponsors scientific meetings across the United States and around the world, 
administers awards and grant programs, and promotes public awareness of 
mathematics. 
Protecting intellectual property (IP) in training large language models (LLMs) 
IP, copyright, and attribution are problematic areas in the training of LLMs. LLMs 
essentially hoover up all available data, and thus will include openly available published 
content (book and journal), retracted content, preprints (arXiv for example), pirated 
content and so on. The question of copyright is important in an AI framework, and there 
are discussions, for example in the UK, on changing copyright laws to accommodate AI 
technologies: 
1 


https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2025/feb/11/uk-copyright-law-consultati
on-fixed-favour-ai-firms-peer-says  
On the one hand LLMs do not provide attribution as content is broken into relatable 
elements, not assigned to an author. This is important, especially in math, as the ideas 
expressed in a journal article or book are the IP – generally not being a report on an 
experiment, which is more common in the empirical sciences. There are also research 
integrity concerns, as the loss of attribution means a loss of accountability. Research 
output can only be as good as the quality of input. In addition, it is not clear that 
plausible looking output is correct output. LLMs frequently produce reasonable sounding 
statements that are factually false, as the algorithms do not incorporate logical checks 
and verifications of information.    Building on the existing mathematical sciences education infrastructure (K-16) to 
help citizens understand AI and critically evaluate the products of generative AI 
The US education system struggles to train people in computer science and AI in 
particular. Even leading research universities struggle to recruit faculty versed in the 
latest techniques, as they compete directly with technology companies for talent. 
Secondary schools rely on existing teachers to cover new advances. Often, people 
educated in mathematics incorporate computing into their lessons. These teachers 
need support and professional development to teach the latest ideas. But even teachers 
in the humanities need to help students develop critical thinking skills, to evaluate 
whether AI-produced content is accurate or misleading.   Strategic investments in fundamental research in the mathematical and 
computational sciences that support key technologies make AI possible; and also 
research on how AI will transform research in existing fields (AIMing etc.) 
Fundamental research in neural networks, machine learning, optimization, and graph 
theory made possible recent breakthroughs in AI.  Continued leadership in these 
fundamental areas will seed future achievements. Federal support is essential for work 
that cannot be immediately incorporated into marketable products.  
The state of AI research today can be likened to, in the words of Turing award winner 
Yann LeCun, building steam engines without knowing thermodynamics.  Mathematics 
research is critically needed to develop a firm theoretical foundation for AI.  This is 
necessary to create AI that is efficient, capable of correct and explainable decision 
making, and robust.   
2 


At the same time, AI has transformed long-standing research fields like optimization, 
scientific computing, fluid dynamics, and mathematical modeling. Even theoretical 
topics like number theory and knot theory have been transformed through these 
technologies. Future progress rests on support for databases and structured 
computations that can serve as training data for models. Again, federal support for this 
basic research will be crucial. 
Active support for secure platforms for data analysis using rigorous frameworks 
like differential privacy 
To maintain public confidence, data used for AI models must be curated to avoid 
situations where individuals can be identified in training data. Even “anonymized” 
datasets often fail to protect confidentiality. New paradigms like encrypted search - 
which allows queries without full access to a dataset - and differential privacy - should 
be pursued.  
Investment in open source development and documentation to allow researchers 
to analyze performance 
Open source code and documentation is essential for evaluating the relative 
effectiveness of various computational approaches to problem-solving. LLM-based 
solution techniques can yield dramatic results but their ultimate utility depends on the 
scale of up-front investments in training the models. Assessing the security, consistency, 
and fairness of models is difficult without access to the source code. Having publicly 
available code templates is essential for training the next generation of STEM workers. Reasonable guidelines on international collaboration and export controls to allow 
fundamental research to continue unhindered 
Current export-control regulations support international collaboration on fundamental 
research intended for publication in the scientific literature. The openness of American 
universities to students and researchers from around the world are key to their unique 
creativity and productivity. While proprietary technologies in commercial products and 
defense applications are essential to national security, a robust open research 
community helps the United States to recruit the best and brightest from around the 
world in basic science and mathematics. Many of these individuals remain in the United 
States, developing products and technologies essential for national security.  
3 


Frameworks for audits of automated decision processes to allow organization 
leadership and policy-makers to understand the aggregate impacts of the 
systems in use 
Many processes in business and government are routinely audited to ensure 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Too often, computer automation is 
used to insulate decisions from evaluation or scrutiny. Mathematical modeling can be a 
powerful tool in assessing the policy implications of AI decision processes. But this is 
only possible with access to data on inputs and outputs of the algorithms.   
Robert Harington, Chief Publishing Officer 
AMS 
Brendan Hassett, Professor of Mathematics 
Brown University 
Karen Saxe, Senior Vice President, Government Relations 
AMS 
Dimitri Shlyakhtenko, Professor of Mathematics 
University of California, Los Angeles 
4 


