BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
PRESIDENT  
Jeffrey Szabo  
Suffolk County Water 
Authority   
Julie Anderson          
Denver Water  
Alex Chen  
Seattle Public Utilities  
Angela Licata  
New York City  Department of 
Environmental Protection  
Kenneth Waldroup  
Cape Fear Public Utility 
Authority  VICE PRESIDENT  
Calvin Farr  
Prince William Water  
Verna Arnette  
Beaufort -Jasper Water & Sewer 
Authority  
Randy E. Hayman  
Philadelphia Water Department  
Rachel Murphy  
Contra Costa Water District  TREASUR ER 
Lindsey Rechtin  
Northern Kentucky Water District  
Cathy Bailey  
Greater Cincinnati Water Works  
Matthew Jalbert  
Trinity River Authority of Texas  
Will Pickering  
Pittsburgh Water  SECRETARY  
Chris Browning  
Oklahoma City Water Utilities 
Trust  
Tad Bohannon  
Central Arkansas Water  
Dave Johnson  
Las Vegas Valley Water District  
Shaun Pietig  
WaterOne  EMERITUS  
John P. Sullivan, Jr.  
Boston Water and Sewer 
Commission  
Jeff Brown  
Onondaga County Water 
Authority  
Ghassan Korban  
Sewerage and Water Board of 
New Orleans  
Todd Swingle  
Toho Water  CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER  
Tom Dobbins  
Shane Chapman  
Metropolitan Water District of 
Southern California  
Yann Le Gouellec  
Newport News Waterworks  
Holly Rosenthal  
Phoenix Water Services 
Department  March 14, 2025  
Faisal D’Souza  
Technical Coordinator   
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) 
National Coordination Office (NCO)  
National Science Foundation  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA, 22314  
Re: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan 
Submitted electronically  
Dear Mr. D’Souza : 
The Association of Metropolitan Water Agencies (AMWA) is pleased to have the opportunity to 
provide comments to the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) and the 
National Science Foundation (NSF) NITRD NCO  regarding the request for information on the 
development of an artificial intelligence (AI) action plan . AMWA is an organization of the largest 
publicly owned drinking water systems in the United States. Member utilities collectively provide 
clean drinking water to over 160 million people  across the nation . As large public water agencies, 
AMWA utilities support thriving local economies by supplying reliable water services to 
businesses, industries, and communities. Simultaneously, as stewards of large sums of public 
funds, water utilities recognize the vast opportunities to leverage AI applications in way s that 
advance the impact and efficiency of utility operations. The Association believes that advancement 
of domestic AI applications is essential for our nation’s security and economic prosperity and 
encourages the inclusion of water impacts and opportuni ties for water efficiency in the AI Action 
Plan.    
AMWA recognizes that the development and proliferation of artificial intelligence will increase 
water demand  and use . At the same time, AI -powered technologies have opportunities to optimize 
how water utilities operate, including through improved water distribution, leak prediction and 
detection, enhanced treatment efficiency, improved customer relations, and more. The Association 


Mr. Faisal D’Souza  
March 14, 2025  
Page 2 of 4 
Disclaimer:  This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. 
Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attributi on. urges NSF to include an assessment of the impacts of artificial intelligence development and 
technologies on the nation’s water supply in its AI Action Plan.  
I.Impacts of AI and related industries on water supplies.
There are various means through which AI technologies and supporting infrastructure will affect 
water demand that the NSF and other parties should account for  when developing the AI Action 
Plan. AI datacenters require  large amounts of water , and f reshwater consumption is a necessary 
part of generative AI processing. Additionally, t he production and maintenance of AI datacenters 
and technologies also requires increased electricity production, which will drive water use in many 
instances.  
First, AI processing and datacenters, as well as AI -related manufacturing and other technologies, 
require cooling technologies that are water -intensive. Water -intensive cooling towers and water 
evaporation -assisted air -cooling  processes are commonplace methods of preventing servers in AI 
facilities from overheating, and these require fresh, potable water to avoid pipe clogs and bacterial 
growth.1 Within cooling towers, a portion of water is evaporated to dissipate the heat generated by 
servers. The remaining water moves in an open loop to further absorb heat, although this recycled 
water can only be reused three to ten times before mineral and salt buildup makes it unusable. This 
standard cooling process therefore requires a consistent input of water and has been found to use 
anywhere from 0.26 to 2.4 gallons of water per kilowatt per hour (kWh)1, depending on weather 
conditions. Evaporation -assisted air cooling is a more efficient alternative, although water is still 
used in notable amounts when conditions are too hot or dry for heat to be sufficiently ejected into 
the natural environment.   
In addition to the water used directly in datacenters, AI production  and manufacturing  drive 
additional water demands. AI production require  large amounts of electricity, which has the 
potential to impact water use. Much of the electricity used to provide power to AI datacenters is 
generated through thermoelectric or hydroelectric methods , which are estimated to use two 
additional gallons of water per kWh of electricity consumed.2 Manufacturing of AI -related 
technologies also has an impact on water use, as AI chip and server manufacturing processes also 
use large amounts of pure water for wafer fabrication and cooling of semiconductor plants. While 
deliberate estimates of water consumption from manufacturing is a developing research area, 
researchers and technology leaders have estimated that it is  likely significant . Apple , for example,  
has previously reported that the manufacturing supply chain accounts for 99% of the company's 
water footprint.3 As the nation prepares identifies methods for its companies to accelerate AI 
1 Li, P., Yang, J., Islam, M. A., & Ren, S. (2023). Making ai less" thirsty": Uncovering and addressing the secret 
water footprint of ai models.  arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.03271 .  
2 Torcellini, P., Long, N., & Judkoff, R. (2003).  Consumptive water use for US power production  (No. NREL/TP -
550-33905). National Renewable Energy Lab  (NREL), Golden, CO (United States).
3 Apple, Inc. (2024). Apple Environmental Progres Report. Environmental Progress Report.
https://www.apple.com/environment/pdf/Apple_Environmental_Progress_Report_2024.pdf .


Mr. Faisal D’Souza  
March 14, 2025  
Page 3 of 4 
Disclaimer:  This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. 
Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attributi on. technologies and use, it is essential to identify and plan for the impacts of AI on the nation’s water 
supplies.  
II.Recommendations for policy areas of consideration in the AI Action Plan.
To ensure that the nation’s use of AI also promotes the nation’s water security, the AI Action Plan 
should focus on three areas: understanding AI’s water impacts, leveraging AI for water 
conservation, and fostering collaboration between AI developers and w ater resource managers. 
The following considerations outline actionable steps to address these opportunities.  
First, it is essential that the AI Action Plan include impacts to the nation’s water supplies. 
Conducting a comprehensive water footprint assessment on the water supplies of various regions, 
particularly those expected to see proliferation of datacenters a nd other AI technologies. A 
footprint assessment would include an estimation of the increase in demands to water supplies in 
various regions across the nation. Such assessments should include direct and indirect impacts to 
the nation’s supplies, with speci fic attention to different hydrologic regions of the nation.   
Where water supplies are constrained, the Action Plan should identify additional measures for 
datacenters, manufacturers, and other AI -related industries to effectively reduce their water 
demands. These measures include technologies such as monitoring or p redictive tools that 
optimize cooling efficiency in datacenters, decreasing the needs for water to cool down centers, 
and research into other alternatives for water -intensive cooling, including air -based cooling or 
hybrid cooling systems or and waste heat recovery. As the Action Plan outlines opportunities for 
reducing energy constraints on the electricity gride, the action plan should also consider the use of 
energy production through low -water alternatives. Finally, the action plan should outline how AI 
datacenters and manufacturers could use recycled water to support industrial facilities.  
While assessing water impacts, the AI Action Plan should also promote solutions for water 
efficiency. AI and related technologies hold abundant opportunities for advancing the efficiency 
of water utilities. A policy plan should include an assessment of how  AI applications more 
efficiently provide water to communities, industries, and businesses through technologies like 
service and treatment optimization, predictive maintenance, leak detection, water supply 
forecasting, demand planning, and more. Exploring the opportunities that AI applications may 
have on promoting efficiency in water provision and protection of water supply will advance the 
nation’s water security.  
Finally, it is necessary that any action plan recognizes importance of collaboration with local water 
managers  when developing local AI policies and infrastructure plans.  Local water utilities, 
watershed managers, and regional planning authorities have critical insights into water availability 
in the near - and long -term, challenges, and the potential strain that AI -driven industries, such as 
data centers and AI -powered man ufacturing, may place on existing water supply resources. By 
identifying where water supply and AI stakeholders should work together, the National Action 
Plan can ensure that AI growth aligns with regional water management strategies, promotes 


Mr. Faisal D’Souza  
March 14, 2025  
Page 4 of 4 
Disclaimer:  This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. 
Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attributi on. responsible water use, and supports the longevity of water -stressed areas. Considering formal 
partnerships, data -sharing agreements, and other best practices between AI developers and local 
water authorities may help mitigate water stress while fostering i mportant economic and 
technological advancement.  
III.Conclusion
AMWA thanks NSF for the opportunity to provide comment on the  development of an AI Action 
Plan. The Association recognizes the necessity to develop an AI Action Plan to advance the 
nation’s leadership in AI and bolster economic and technologic opportunities nationwide. 
Acknowledging the significant impacts that prol iferation of AI and its associated industries may 
have on water supplies is also necessary to ensure that regions and communities are able to 
efficiently take advantage of AI opportunities while also ensuring the long -term viability of water 
resources. The Association emphasizes that any AI Action Plan must consider the impacts of AI 
and AI -related industries on the nation’s water supplies and appreciates NSF’s consideration of 
these comments. If you have any questions about this letter, please contact Jessica Evans, 
AMWA’s Senior Manager of Government Affairs and Sustainability Policy at 
Sincerely, 
Thomas Dobbins  
Chief Executive Officer  
Association of Metropolitan Water Agencies  
cc: Suzanne H. Plimpton, Reports Clearance Officer 


