Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a small but quickly growing tool of society today, one that is 
moving forward at a rapid pace. As with other technologies, there will be a need to set 
regulations in in the near future to ensure that AI is being used properl y and without 
malicious intent across various sectors. The American Nurses Association (ANA) is pleased 
that the Administration is looking at how to use AI now and into the future, but was 
surprised that that health care was not one of the fields the Admin istration is looking at 
using AI. ANA believes the use of AI in healthcare settings is a rapidly growing sector with 
potential for great impact on the nation. However, the Administration’s request for 
information (RFI) seeking input on AI did not include a ny mention of the use of the 
technology in health care.  
ANA is the premier organization representing the interests of the nation’s over 5 million 
registered nurses (RNs), through its state and constituent member associations, 
organizational affiliates, and individual members. ANA advances the nursing profession by 
fostering high standards of nursing practice, promoting a safe and ethical work 
environment, bolstering the health and wellness of nurses, and advocating on health care 
issues that affect nurses and the public. ANA members also include the four APRN roles: 
nurse practitioners (NPs), clinical nurse specialists (CNSs), certified nurse -midwives 
(CNMs), and certified registered nurse anesthetists (CRNAs). RNs serve in multiple direct 
care, care coordination, and administration leadership roles, across the full spectrum of 
health care settings. RNs provide and coordinate patient care, educate patients and the 
public about various health conditions including essential self -care, and provide  advice 
and emotional support to patients and their family members.  
Nurses are critical to a robust health care system. Nurses meet the needs of patients and 
provide quality care that leads to better health outcomes for all patients. Moreover, nurses 
are critical to coordinated care approaches for Medicare beneficiaries in  all settings, 
including hospital outpatient settings. Patient -centered care coordination is a core 
professional standard for all RNs and is central to nurses’ longtime practice of providing 
holistic care to patients.  
The use of AI in healthcare settings has grown over time . ANA is aware of AI being used all 
over health  care, from background paperwork , administrative tasks, to diagnostic tool s, 
patient engagement , and adherence with treatment pl ans. The uses of AI in healthcare are 
endless and ANA looks forward to seeing how innovators will integrate AI into healthcare in 
the future.  While AI technologies have the potential to improve health care  generally , they 
may also introduce novel challenges and exacerbate existing  ones if not properly overseen.  
It is in this vein that the ANA requests that the Administration ensure that health care 
clinicians, such as nurses, are included in any Administration AI events, whether they are 
task forces, working groups, subject matter expert panels, or other forums . 


ANA is actively looking into the future of nursing through various initiatives and, while AI 
does not make up a large part of current activities, it will undoubtedly take on a much larger 
role in the coming years. ANA has crafted a position statement on the ethical use of AI , 
incorporating the expertise and experience of nurses, which should be considered as a 
future baseline for how AI should be used in healthcare . 1 In addition to the aforementioned 
position statement, the ANA also believes that practitioners should use AI as a diagnostic 
tool where appropriate . At this time, ANA believes that human practitioners must be part of 
the diagnostic process and have final authority on healthcare  decisions . 
The future possibilities of AI are endless, but one must ensure that a human practitioner 
remain at the center of the  process. That may change in future, but in order to ensure that 
these changes reflect the expertise of clinicians providing care to patients , ANA stands 
ready to partner on any effort to discuss or determine AI policymaking in health care . 
1 https://www.nursingworld.org/globalassets/practiceandpolicy/nursing -excellence/ana -position-
statements/the -ethical-use-of-artificial-intelligence -in-nursing-practice_bod -approved -12_20_22.pdf  


