3/10/2025 via FDMS with PDF 
Anastasia Bojanowski
Americans  deserve rights when it comes to Artificial Intelligence tha t include: 1)  The right to 
transparency:  "No secret data collection —people have a right to know if their data is being 
collected, who is collecting it, and whether that data will be shared." 2) The right to access: "If 
someone has your data, you should be able to see what data they have" (similar to a credit report) 
3)The right to data minimization: "People/organizations/governments should only collect the
amount of data needed to complete an agreed-upon task. Bulk collection should not be allowed"4)The right to correction: "Incorrect information about an individual can bring disastrousconsequences. People have the right to review data that has been collected on them and, ifinaccurate, demand it  be corrected in a timely manner." 5) The right to be forgotten: "Our digital
footprint is making us become prisoners of our recorded past. Data should have mandatoryexpiration dates. [We already do this with bankruptcy]. 6) The right to object to automat ed
decision-making: "Algorithmic bias is real—as are concerns regarding dehumanization int eh
name of “optimization" A good piece of legislation to consider from California: "The CA AITransparency Act (the "Act")1 mandates that "Covered Providers" (AI sys tems that are publicly
accessible within California with more than one million monthly visitors or users) implementcomprehensive measures to disclose when content has been generated or modified by AI. ThisAct outlines requirements for AI detection tools and content disclosures, and establisheslicensing practices to ensure that only compliant AI systems are permitted for public use"Legislation should mandate that companies have an AI policy (not necessarily the stipulations ofthe AI policy) that focus on: "adding indications when downloading and sharing, rules on AI use,guidelines for attributions or prohibitions."


Americans deserve rights when it comes to Artiﬁcial Intelligence that include: 
1.The right to object to automated decision-making: "Algorithmic bias is real—as are
concerns regarding dehumanization in the name of “optimization"
2.The right to transparency: "No secret data collection—people have a right to know if theirdata is being collected, who is collecting it, and whether that data will be shared."
3.The right to access: "If someone has your data, you should be able to see what data theyhave" (similar to a credit report)
4.The right to data minimization: "People/organizations/governments should only collect theamount of data needed to complete an agreed-upon task. Bulk collection should not beallowed"
5.The right to correction: "Incorrect information about an individual can bring disastrousconsequences. People have the right to review data that has been collected on them and, ifinaccurate, demand it be corrected in a timely manner."
6.The right to be forgotten: "Our digital footprint is making us become prisoners of ourrecorded past. Data should have mandatory expiration dates. [We already do this withbankruptcy].
A good piece of legislation to consider from California: "The CA AI Transparency Act (the "Act")1 mandates that "Covered Providers" (AI systems that are publicly accessible within California with more than one million monthly visitors or users) implement comprehensive measures to disclose when content has been generated or modiﬁed by AI. This Act outlines requirements for AI detection tools and content disclosures, and establishes licensing practices to ensure that only compliant AI systems are permitted for public use"
Legislation should mandate that companies have an AI policy (not necessarily the stipulations of the AI policy) that focus on: "adding indications when downloading and sharing, rules on AI use, guidelines for attributions or prohibitions." 


