From: Andrew Davis
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Sunday, March 16, 2025 12:00:11 AM
Attachments: image.png
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
My name is Andrew Davis. I am a musician and private citizen  who enjoys the work of other
musicians  and private citizens.  
Because generative AI is widely understood to plagiarize the work of human beings in order to
borrow and synthesize elements of existing work, it must be handled properly, and significantrules and safeguards surrounding its use and development must be implemented. It is deeplyconcerning that the U.S. Govenrment may suggest otherwise, when the very site requestingcomments for the AI Action Plan,https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/02/06/2025-02305/request-for-information-
on-the-development-of-an-artificial-intelligence-ai-action-plan  , contains this disclaimer:
"Responses to this RFI are subject to release under the Freedom of Information Act and maybe posted online at https://www.nitrd.gov/
. Therefore, we request that no business proprietary
information, copyrighted information, or sensitive personally identifiable information besubmitted as part of your response to this RFI." For reasons of protecting just such proprietary,copyrighted, and sensitive personally identifiable information, the government must err on theside of caution. We are not beholden to technology corporations trying to inflate the next bigboom before it inevitably goes bust. We are beholden to our greatest resource, the people whocomprise the United States, because it is their valuable and precious ideas that make ourcountry great. Beware of any business group whose plan relies on using technology to stealand replicate these ideas. That business will not end well.
 
An image of the federalregister.gov  page displaying the text I have mentioned:
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-


proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government
in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.   
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


