From: Andrew Dahl
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Tuesday, March 4, 2025 3:42:41 PM
To the National Coordination Office,
AI-DRIVEN DIAGNOSIS AND META-ANALYSIS OF POTENTIAL BIOTHREATS AND BIOTERROR  
WITHIN US BORDERS
Abstract
The most precious resource of any nation is its people. The loss of readiness, productivity and  
capability due to artificial pandemics, bioweapons and synthetic pathogens can put the US at a  
significant disadvantage in times of conflict and strife or induce that very same conflict and strife.  
Early detection of such a threat,  the patterns of both symptoms and spread involve gathering vast  
amounts of data for analysis. As importantly, that first-party data must be gathered rapidly and  
accurately in near real-time and analyzed quickly in order to develop appropriate responses and  
countermeasures. Therefore, a means to rapidly detect symptoms or to diagnose an acute state in  
large numbers, fully define contagion or dispersal patterns for such agents and act quickly to mitigate  
further harm to individuals and the nation as whole demands a novel approach that involves new  
methods of detection, data aggregation and subsequent AI-driven analysis and modeling to speed  
decision-making and implementation of countermeasures.
The foundations for this may already be taking shape. HHS under Secretary Kennedy has considered  
establishing a national health baseline for at-risk populations to determine the true extent of obesity-
related conditions and disease states, such as Metabolic Syndrome, full-blown T2 diabetes and  CVD, 
among others. This may involve development of a rapid, deployable multianalyte screening test  that 
can be easily administered by unskilled hands and quickly expanded to the entire population,  
allowing millions to be screened in short order within a fully digital workflow that generates pristine  
data for AI-driven meta-analysis in minutes. That same method can be repurposed as a screening  
tool for biothreats and artificial pandemics. Such a method exists and is in manufacturing  
development, along with the data handling and transmittal.
Deploying such a screening tool generates terabytes of information that demands massive  
processing power, sophisticated prompt engineering and modeling algorithms to elicit the desired  
analytical response and scenario modeling from any AI platform tasked with this effort . In the case of  
a potential bioterror event, compiling and analyzing that data must be conducted at lightspeed to give  
governmental actors the intelligence to inform a timely and effective response. Such a platform is in  
the early stages of development. Integrated with the real-time capture of biological data, an effective  
defensive capability for biothreats and bioterror is very likely to be successful.


A detailed white paper is available upon request.
Regards,
Andrew A Dahl
Founder & Executive Chair
BioMEMS Diagnostics, Inc.
+www.biomemsdiagnostics.com
BioMEMS
DIAGNOSTICS


