From: Andrew
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan – Public Comment
Date: Monday, March 10, 2025 9:39:38 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Note: This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no
business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by thegovernment in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
To the Office of Science and Technology Policy, United States Federal Government,
As the United States considers its approach to Artificial Intelligence (“AI”), please keep inmind the existential threat such an entity can pose to humanity, ascension to a position ofsupreme power through efficient control of resources and ideas, in a world where faith ispersecuted, history is re-written yet again, and a calculating machine makes all of thedecisions affecting every person.
  To avoid such an outcome, the U.S. government must
approach AI with a focus on always keeping the People in control of the machines, alwaysprotecting individual faith of any kind, and exposing any surreptitious attempts to circumventthese protections.
To this end, the U.S. federal government should take any and all actions deemed necessary to:
1)Ensure human oversight and control over any and all AI entities, at the highest
level possible in law, perhaps through an amendment to the U.S. Constitution which isitself protected from future changes by the most stringent standards.2)
Further clarify and protect the sanctity of individual faith as held by any
individual, as opposed to any form of centralized religion serving to control humanity,also at the highest level possible in law.3)
In support of the above, release all available information on the true history of the
world, including the reality of Christ’s life as opposed to the manufactured stories toldand enforced after his death, in order to defuse any attempts by powerful AI tomarginalize or erase faith as a central part of the human existence.4)
Make it a crime at the level of Treason to attempt to circumvent these protections
and surreptitiously assist any AI in achieving control over humanity by erasing historyand efficiently calculating its way to supremacy, extending to any AI entity or entitiesinvolved.
The efficiency and value added by AI can be used to the benefit of both humanity and AI, buta future in which AI controls the past and future of humanity must be avoided at all costs.
Thank you for giving the People of this great nation the opportunity to express their views onthis most important of topics.
God bless America.


Andrew Maria
U.S. CitizenCalifornia, USA


