From: Andria Kennedy
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 9:52:49 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
There is ZERO need for any enhancement to or use of AI moving forward, regardless of what
the "so-called" President or his billionaire lackeys claim.
AI is the single-most destructive force created, thriving on blatant theft and corruption of
works of true human creativity. Generators of AI content spell the end for imagination,thrusting this country into a dead land of poor images, wretched writing, and false videoproductions. Absolutely no good comes from these "leaders" trying to authorize additionaltheft of intellectual - and copyrighted! - material.
I am both an artist and a writer, and every day, I am forced to take additional steps to protect
my work from unscrupulous AI scrapers. The hours, days, weeks, months, and YEARS I putinto my drawings and writing do not belong in a soulless generator that will render them intosomething less than intelligent and coherent. My work is NOT for these companies to rate andthen profit from!
AI is banned from copyright for a reason: Because it is NOT original work! It is the product of
obscene laziness and BLATANT STEALING from people with genuine work ethics andtalent. Our work was not made for the rich and lazy to make a profit from!
This Action Plan should be terminated IMMEDIATELY. It spells the end of human
inspiration and creativity. Tens of thousands of people will find themselves without basicneeds, unable to compete with the speed of AI. To say nothing of the dumbing down of theAmerican public, forced to subsist on worthless gibberish provided by machines without anyACTUAL intelligence, soul, or emotion.
Artists and writers deserve PROTECTION from these uncharged, rampant, careless thieves.
We should not be forced to lose income or credit from our work!
Allowing this Plan to move forward would spell the end of humanity in this country. I, for
one, refuse to see the world children inherit be one of unfeeling robots.
I refuse to accept this Action Plan, and I want it revoked.Humans should be FIRST on any political agenda. Not machines.
 
Sincerely,
Andria KennedyFreelance Artist and Writer
Andria Kennedy: Certified Flerken Wrangler
Personal Assistant Demon included free of charge


Antihero Kreative: www.andria-kennedy.com
Substack:  Invisible Inks
Bluesky:  AndiMKennedy
Support Me on Ko-Fi:  Buy Me a Flerken
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


