From: Annie Tandy
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] Business Owner Feedback Regarding the AI Action Plan
Date: Monday, March 17, 2025 9:21:14 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
I am one of many throughout the country that owns an online hyperlocal publication for families that writes
about family-friendly things to do in our immediate area. We visit kid-friendly places, talk to businessowners, and get feedback from other parents to put together guides to various venues, events, experiences,classes, camps, and more. We are giving families inside information that isn't available elsewhere online.
Being the owner or a technology and media company as well as a former chemical engineer, I see the value
of the United States being at the top of our game, especially when it comes to the advancements being madein artificial intelligence. However, there are major destructive consequences that I don't see beingconsidered.
Currently, AI is scraping content from the internet and serving that information with or without attribution.
Let’s face it, very few people are clicking through to the original content. That directly affects each andevery business and individual spending time researching and writing that content. I know many hyperlocalwebsite owners who have gone out of business because they stopped receiving click throughs to theirwebsites, therefore didn’t receive the ad revenue that kept them in business. That’s lost quality content! IfAI keeps going the way it is, all online content that is written by actual humans with discernment,experience, and expertise will disappear from the internet.
If sources of information that Americans trust are lost, then in turn AI won’t be able to serve trustworthy
information. All that will be left will be forums from random viewpoints that may or may not have ulteriormotives for commenting. There’s no quality control in that situation, resulting in poor information everyonewill be using to make decisions in life. I don’t see that as being good for our future. The only other type ofwebsite for families that would exist are the websites from the individual venues, which serve asadvertisements for their
 business.
I am urging you to consider the consequences of scraping content that belongs to each and every individual,business, and organization.
 I don’t want to live in a world where all of these expert business owners no
longer exist and the only information I’m receiving is advertisements and opinions from  random people I
don’t trust on a forum. If AI wants to scrape quality content, which it should, then AI companies should paythe content creators or not be allowed to use content that doesn’t belong to them.
This email is approved for public dissemination. The email contains no business-proprietary or confidential
information. Email contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan andassociated documents without attribution.
Annie


