3/14/2025 vi a FDMS  
Anonymous, 
Any ac tion plan concerning AI should include the protection of copyrighted works, ecological 
ethic s, and protection of jobs. On the subject of copyrighted works, no AI model, nor AI 
company, should be allowed to steal the works of artists, writers, and all the other creatives in the 
world. It would not only be unethical to allow this, it would cost those creatives their livelihoods 
and works. There are ethical ways to train AI models, but stealing the work of others, particularly under the guise of fair use , is not that way. Fair use is not to be used in for- profit 
endeavors, and these AI model companies/orgs are completely for- profit. These generative AI 
models cannot create art, they can only mash things together to generate garbage. Creation of art requir es sentience, because it requires intent and purpose from the creator. AI models cannot do 
that presently. On the subject of ecological ethics, currently it is completely unethical in regards to climate/ecology to sustain the servers for generative AI mode ls. Look into the science, there's 
research there to back it up. With the server loads these models use, they're adding too much to carbon emissions and heat generation. Until the technology can be sustained by ecologically friendly means, it should be highly discouraged. On the subject of protecting jobs, many companies seek to replace human jobs with these generative AI models. As previously stated, these models cannot create, only regurgitate, so they would be inferior to the humans who would do a far be tter job of creating things, particularly in jobs in creative or computer science fields. 
There needs to be some protections in place, that companies cannot just replace human jobs with AI models. It should be discouraged, and keeping human jobs encouraged. In summary--copyrighted works need to be protected, not allowed to be stolen under the guise of fair use (it would NOT be fair use, it would be theft); the environment needs to be considered and protected from this AI model technology until the technology can be sustained by means that is more inline with environmental protections; human jobs need to be protected from companies and organizations that seek to replace them with generative AI models.  


