 
   2/28/2025 via FDMS  
Anonymous  
Hi. I believe this is a terrible idea and a cash grab/handout to the already ultra wealthy. We threw 
money at the problem before and you got duped. China did it in less time, smaller team, worst 
chips, and better product. You think throwing more money is t he way to go? The only time large 
sums of money are flung around this country it goes t inflated contracts donors, lobbyists, 
loyalists, political allies and friends. You all haven't even figured out how China did it. They said 
it was because of their work  environment and how they worked together. How many Americans 
would say the same about theirs? If the workers are treated better and paid a livable wage you 
will have faster work and innovation. It's been proven with companies that limit what their CEO 
makes compared to their employee's salaries. But that doesn't sound American. American is now, 
pray to God, is a system where programs like this suck away our money, paying s just enough. 
Not even enough in most cases. This creates a repressed workforce that will do the bare 
minimum because you are paying them the bare minimum. When someone doesn't have more 
than the bare essentials you then create a population of people who can't crawl out of it. Right 
where you want us as laws are passed to keep the wealth f lowing upward. This plan is a disgrace. 
These billionaires don't need ANOTHER handout for work that has no oversite other from them 
and this is still alongside their government hands them millions and billions in subsidies already. 
The DoD failing audits a nd not an immediate target for DOGE is shifty. Y'all republicans talk 
about fiscal responsibility and getting the budget back under control and have managed to get 
just a few billion so far because of the cowards unwilling to reallocate these funds, the re cently 
passed budget bill is just abysmal! You want to have an even budget but you ask to RAISE the 
debt ceiling AND give tax cuts to the very same people you give welfare checks to each year. 
My mother was on welfare growing up and Republicans have always  talked down about social 
programs... unless it's a company. I just want a government that actually wants to help people 
and this AI initiative and tax bill do the opposite. Im sorryI mispoke earlier. This is a MAGA 
government, nt a republican one. They ar e distinctly different. It's a shame you all don't give a 
damn about your citizens.  
 


