From: Costco
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Monday, March 17, 2025 9:21:24 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
 Hello White House Officials,  
    If AI dominance means producing as much soulless slop as other countries then you’re
wearing blinders, focusing only on the snake oil sold to you by the destructive companies
known as OpenAi, Google, and Meta. If you choose to support these companies in destroyinghuman creativity, uniqueness, and nuance then you are supporting a legacy of despair.
 
   I have seen the results of how AI dumbs people down, making them incapable of sending
simple emails all the way up to being unable to write and navigate academic work. It is anti-intellectual and will only set back our nation further as the people start relying on theselanguage models. They will forget how to speak, read, analyze, and create, thus perpetuatingour nationwide problem of unhappiness because we desire immediate results. People shouldbe encouraged to face intellectual challenge and the AI companies would rather make usdumber so they can make billions.
   It is recommended to have actual creatives and humanity academics to consult on AI
decisions. There is a reason why they make STEM students take humanities and its to groundthem in the nuance of our complex minds. Keep in your mind that AI will always beunderwhelming in its current framework and the environmental and cultural negatives are notworth chasing a lie thats sold to you by tech billionaires. Remember, we don’t even know howthe human mind works, so why do they keep saying Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) isonly a few years away? They’re grifting. They want to sell out the American people, theworld, for their own pockets. Any administration with compassion for their people will realizehow damaging this theft machine is and heavily dictate that they cannot use copyrighted worksand limit their power grid usage, especially for AI Gen.
Also, man, finding real images on the internet is impossible now! It sucks!
 
Sincerely,  
A Critical Citizen
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


