 
   Anonymous  
The AI Plan should include taking the Privacy Rights of American's into account ensuring the 
Federal Government does not use Americans data. The Plan should ensure AI models use a risk 
based approach to validate the models, this will help increase innovation of AI. AI models that 
are classified as high risk should have extra obligations to monitor, report, develop and deploy 
their AI. The plan should address and ban the use of data to build models that the data owners  
have not consented to be used in a data model. AI model testing should include bias testing 
ensuring that the AI model does not target or disadvantages individuals because of their beliefs 
or for any other reason. The plan should instruct the IP community  including the US Patent and 
Trademark office to address data ownership for information produced by AI, who owns the 
output the user of the model owner. The plan should also encourage the implementation of AI 
into the US education environment to prepare Am erican youth to use AI. Current education 
models discourage the use of AI and if American wants to become an AI leader this needs to 
change. The plan should include a transparency requirement and ensure they are not just taking 
jobs from hard working Ameri cans but ensuring if they are there is a transition plan for those 
hard working Americans. Some types of AI should be banned that would turn the US into China. 
Such as manipulative AI and social scoring systems. AI should have rules in place on which 
countries can hold Americas AI systems. Overall the plan should focus on protecting Americans 
while ensuring to bring America to the forefront of AI innovation. If there is not a good enough 
plan in place then companies may have a poor framework on their develo pment of AI and though 
we may have a lot of AI on our market we could close ourselves off from selling our AI to the 
rest of the world. We want America to be a leader in AI and we don't want the lead in AI 
requirements to be in other nations or be run by s tates. If the federal government wants to take 
the lead on AI the plan, guidance and rules need to be better than what current US states have 
and better than what other nations have. If ours is not better then any plan, guidance, law or 
executive order we put in place will be meaningless.  
 


