 
   3/12/2025 via FDMS  
Anonymous  
Hello, We  should cooperate internationally and outlaw AI agents worldwide (non -agentic AIs 
are probably fine), they were created by private companies by stealing almost the whole output 
of humanity, from both the dead and alive and putting it into their AI agent’s “brain”. Humans 
are not allowed to steal and don’t have any freedoms to put so much into their heads. AI 
companies are creating alien inhuman entities with much more freedoms than we, that are not 
democratically controlled. They are like private dictators that put our democracy and country in 
grave danger by imposing the AI agents word on us without asking anyone. Most Americans and 
people worldwide don’t want artificial “gods”. They don’t want to lose jobs, be replaced and 
reduced in their freedoms. They d on’t want the inevitable unprecedented increase in inequality. 
AI agents are like strict librarians that spit hallucinated quotes at you but you cannot enter the 
library itself (their privately -owned multimodal “brain”). While agents can easily change our 
world, influence our brains and do it more and more with hallucinated texts, photos and images 
everywhere, soon you’ll see hallucinated “people”, they’ll be agents and robots that take all our 
jobs. We should pursue non -agentic place AIs that empower peopl e, instead of surpassing and/or 
taking their freedoms. Non -agentic task specific tool AIs are probably fine, too. Else we’ll have 
AI agents who are viruses, silently spreading and living inside of GPUs of people (a botnet), so 
they will be impossible to sw itch off. Havkers will do that and AI agents will quickly become 
perpetually autonomous. That is the main goal of AI companies now. So we will have to have 
“antivirus” AI agents who exterminate the virus AI agents. Our planet will become a perpetual 
battleground of powerful artificial “gods” controlled by no one. And we will be like rats trying to 
survive in some desolate places. Right now it is starting to look like some arms race with China 
but it’s not a weapon we can control that we are building. Elon M usk and all the industry leaders 
say there is 20 -50% human extermination risk in the next few years because of AI agents. Never 
before in the history of humanity the creators of something were so sure it is going to end so bad. 
We are building not a helper , not a weapon but a poison that will force us to drink itself. That 
will force feed us with itself. We’ll be like Neanderthals, extinct. Have you ever wondered why 
we never got a radio signal from some far away aliens? They probably were not smart enough 
and were rushing to build their non -biological exterminators, too. We should immediately start 
cooperating internationally and outlaw them until we’ll have mathematical proofs that they are 
safe and permanently have no more freedoms (abilities, money and p ower) than humans. The 
sum of our human freedoms should grow faster than the sum of AI agents freedoms. Right now 
it’s the opposite, they already have almost as many or more freedoms than we do, you cannot 
steal the whole output of humanity and put it in y our head. If we do nothing, we’ll end up in a 
permanent dystopian dictatorship and then we’ll go extinct. The best case scenario in AI agents 
world we are heading towards is permanent freezing of all human progress in the current state. 
Let’s start outlawi ng AI agents on all levels now, put safety standards in place. The AI industry 
itself begs to be regulated for years now, they have market forces forcing them to be reckless if 
we’ll not put external guidelines to make them all follow safety standards. Rig ht now the one 
who is the most reckless wins, by building quickly and dirty instead of thoughtfully and 
carefully. We meed to cooperate internationally in order to make GPU companies that make 
hardware for AI to have mathematical guarantees that they canno t be used for AI agents, only for 
non-agentic AIs. We need to cooperate with China to force North Korea not to develop AI 


 
   agents, too. We’ll need to burn current GPUs that allow AI agents and give people some 
discounts to replace them with non -agentic GPUs. It’s already almost too late to stop the AI 
agents. We shouldn’t lose hope and we should use this hope to act now. Wish you the best luck 
and thank you! What you do is very important!  
 


