 
   2/27/2025 via FDMS  
Anonymous  
I hope to keep this brief. Artificial Intelligence is of course not artificial at all. From my dated training 
regarding AI the subsections were “learning machines” and “procedures” such as “reverse backup”. 
From my remembrance AI would, thru a web of codin g use a scale of predetermined inputs to arrive 
at a “logic” output. Technically, IMO, there are no such things as learning machines. Our brains are 
programmed by God, but deviated by sin. We can’t believe that a machine can actually learn 
because it doesn ’t have a “brain”, heart, feelings, etc. Therein lies the problem. Any person, 
therefore machine, with evil intention, will give the same results. For example: if a machine is 
programmed to accept basic inputs regarding a woman’s decision for her pregnancy , and the 
programmer had a bent toward abortion, then the “machine” would, coincidentally lean towards 
give a pro -abortion answer. This would be, IMO, a disaster for the growth of a population vs. a 
selfish desire for a limited population of a select few. Machines are not think ahead machines, 
rather are products of programmed behavior. We are the best learning machines. Taking in our 5 
senses to make, hopefully logical decisions to benefit mankind. Labor saving machines can be a 
welcome option, but never f orget if, a machine has a part fall off while manufacturing a product and 
the machine hasn’t been properly programmed to stop production, the amount of waste can be 
large. Also, think of the tricking of the mind being done to steer a population into thinki ng something 
is real vs. not real. For example: Baron Trump singing country songs for America’s Got Talent. Would 
you want one AI machine feeding Baron Trump’s signing “ability” into another AI machine? Where 
do these results lead? Typically good programmi ng followed these steps: 1) clearly define a 
problem 2) identify a clear resolution 3) decide what actions must/may be taken 4) decide if a 
human or man -made machine is sensible 5) identify ALL costs 6) decide to proceed or not. These 
are basic and not all  inclusive. These are strictly my opinions and nothing more.  
 


