From: Chaotic Crafting Hobbit
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Monday, March 17, 2025 9:14:10 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
First I think we need to be very clear in the fact that there are many types of "AI". Some
that can work for the good of the nation like diagnosing illnesses   and helping   moderate
online spaces to protect children and victims of abuse so that a human doesn't have tobe exposed to traumatizing images. Others that are tools to help artists and writers,
  like
spellcheckers. Though I would argue even some of these "AI" came become crutchesthat people rely on rather than learning from their mistakes.
Generative AI however only exists to make money from theft. It takes the creativity and
hard work of Americans and people from around the world to generate images. writing,and code for nothing but profit. It takes one thing that was truly human, expressing ourhumanity through artwork, and puts it in the hands of a machine. These companiesshould not have the right to steal all of the art, writing and coding that humanity hasproduced to make a profits for a few. They should not be replacing human jobs withstolen collective knowledge and experience.
 
I feel like this would be a detriment to not just the US but the human race if we allowthese companies to steal all the creative hard work of humanity because it would slowlycause people to stop trying to be artists and writers as well as coders; the very thing thatmade it possible to do. If only because it will become increasingly difficult to competewith the collective skill of humanity and speed that generative AI boasts.
  Could there be
a time where no one makes real art, new books and challenging themselves to writecode? Maybe not in our lifetime, but we can see how technology has already made manypeople lazier, angrier, and more stupid. Who's to say we won't become a nation of idiotswho are constantly being stimulated by generated entertainment?
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


