 
   3/7/2025 via FDMS  
If the U.S. is to realize the transformative possibilities of AI while also mitigating its risks, it will 
require a mobilization of all of our intellectual resources. We urge an expansive strategy that 
complements commercial competitiveness with greater in volvement of humanities researchers to 
ensure both strategic and judicious development. This path requires significant investment in 
research alongside collaboration with other nations where these technologies are being developed. 
To balance the speed of i nnovation, we advocate for transparency and access for academic 
researchers to independently assess potential use cases and associated harms. There is no reason 
to place blind trust in these systems when it comes to our security, values, or welfare. Ongoin g 
discussion, testing, and oversight are essential for technologies that have such powerful societal 
effects. Given the profound societal, economic, and security implications of AI, we must not 
underestimate the power of these systems. This situation goes beyond the usual debates about 
innovation versus regulation. While privately held companies are incentivized to prioritize 
performance and competitiveness, academic research and government oversight can complement 
these efforts with a focus on privacy, sec urity, and transparency. This conversation benefits most 
from dialogue with a large number of stakeholders and is not only in the interest of societal and 
national security but also in our economic interest. Over the past two years of observing AI 
discourse, we've seen that both the most optimistic and the most concerned voices in this field 
have found common ground: the unprecedented potential impact of this technology on humanity. 
This is especially true with the advent of agentic systems that more and mo re remove human -in-
the-loop interaction. These increasingly autonomous AI systems demonstrate advanced behaviors 
like emotional intelligence and manipulation, persuasion and deception. We find ourselves facing a 
pivotal moment —one where we must actively sh ape these technologies to serve humans. To shape 
these technologies in such a fashion requires more than just a promotion of innovation, but also the 
active participation of researchers and citizen stakeholders with a deep understanding of human 
flourishin g and human values.  
 


