Anthology Global Headquarters  
5201 Congress Avenue  
Boca Raton, Florida 33487  www.anthology.com  
Office: +
NSF Call for Public Input on Federal AI 
Plan  
Content of Submission  
Sender / signatory: Bruce Dahlgren, CEO  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  
We appreciate the opportunity to participate in OSTP and NSF’s Request for  
Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan and to 
provide input on priority actions that should be included in the Federal AI Action Plan.  
Overview of Anthology and its services  
Anthology delivers education and technolog y solutions so students can reach their full 
potential and learning institutions thrive. This includes focusing on global institutions in 
higher education, government, and corporations preparing students for advanced 
degrees, certifications, and on -the-job training. Millions of students around the world are 
supported throughout their education journey via Anthology’s market -leading ecosystem 
of flagship SaaS solutions and support services, including the award -winning 
Blackboard® Learning Management Solution  (LMS), Anthology® Student, Student 
Information System and Enterprise Resource Planning (SIS+ERP), and Anthology® 
Reach Customer Relationship Management (CRM) solutions.  
Through the power of education and technology, we are uniquely empowering 
educators a nd institutions with meaningful, simple, and intelligent innovation to help 
them redefine what’s possible and create life -changing opportunities for people 
everywhere . Artificial intelligence (AI) is a transformative technology that supports our 
customers today and will continue to do so well into the future. From our discussions 
with university, government, and business leaders, we know the conversation around 
implementing AI is shifting away from reticence  to a focus on unlocking its potential to 
drive more personalized experiences for students, enhance institutional efficiency, and 
achieve better outcomes for all.  
AI is reshaping education, offering personalized learning, accessibility , and greater 
efficiency . For students, AI provides individualized support ; and for faculty , it 
Docusign Envelope ID: 33F6390D-92DE-4067-BA1A-B907D68CF24F


2 streamlines administrative tasks  and allows educators to focus on teaching and 
learning . Institutional leadership will also benefit from AI-driven predictive analytics. Our 
custome rs are at a pivotal moment — enrollment is declining, and retention challenges 
are creating financial strain.  Analytics that provide early warning signs that a student 
needs additional support and identify at -risk students are critical. This enables  leader s 
to intervene and provide better support for those students . The promise of AI and its 
potential benefits for students, faculty , and higher education institutions is too great to 
allow this moment to pass without critical evaluations and clear guidance on  its ethical 
use.  
Our deliberate approach  is to provide clear guidance and direction on using AI in the 
classroom through an AI Policy Framework  to help higher education institutions who are 
interested in developing and adopting specific policies and programs on the ethical use 
of AI within their institution. We recognized that our customers needed assurance and a 
foundation of trust before they would be willing to adopt this disruptive technology.  
Education leader in trustworthy AI  
The trustworthy use of AI has, therefore, been a key priority for Anthology  for a long 
time, and we have been actively thinking about AI risk management for years . In 2018, 
Anthology brought institutions and academics together to discuss Ethical AI in Higher 
Education .  
Since then, Anthology has held various customer webinars and sessions to show how 
Anthology manages AI risks responsibly. In 2022, we established a cross -functional 
working group to implement a dedicated Trustworthy AI program. In 2023, we formally 
impleme nted our Trustworthy AI Program, which is led by a Global Privacy Officer and 
overseen by a Trustworthy AI Council. Our Trustworthy AI program is aligned to the 
U.S. NIST AI Risk Mana gement Framework . The program builds on and integrates with 
Anthology’s ISO -certified privacy and security risk management programs and 
processes.  
A transformative technology with promise s and risks  
Higher education leaders and faculty face mounting challe nges, including  increasing 
administrative burdens, evolving workforce skill requirements , and as noted previously,  
declining enrollment. AI can help by automating time -consuming tasks, streamlining 
content creation, and freeing faculty to focus on high -impact interactions with students. 
Additionally, AI -driven insights can support data -informed decision -making, enabling 
institutions adapt to shifting student needs and market demands.  
While the opportunities with AI are promising, e very new and powerful technology 
comes with risk s. Before any technology is widely adopted, technology companies like 
Anthology must  work hard to gain the necessary trust  from customers, employees, and 
partners.  We need to convince our customers and society at large that we man age 
these risks appropriately, that we can be trusted, that the technology itself can be 
Docusign Envelope ID: 33F6390D-92DE-4067-BA1A-B907D68CF24F


3 trusted. At the same time, companies like Anthology rely on government entities to 
establish the necessary frameworks and rules that build trust in AI and ultimately d rive 
its adoption  
When automobiles were first introduced, many consumers were hesitant to adopt this 
new form of transportation due to concerns about safety and reliability. It took time for 
regulations and safety standards to be implemented, as well as fo r public perception to 
shift toward accepting cars as a safe and reliable mode of transportation.  The same  is 
true for AI. Inaccurate output s, security risks, lack of transparency and control  are just 
some of the risks that need to be managed to allow for the safe and responsible use of 
AI.  
Introducing AI to the Classroom  
Alongside the introduction of the Trustworthy AI Framework, we launched our first AI -
powered product features, enabling our clients to explore the technology while also 
being confident th at they were in control of its ultimate use in the classroom.  
Blackboard is the first major LMS to leverage  generative AI to inspire course and 
assessment creation tasks , setting the standard for instructor efficiency . The AI Design 
Assistant (AIDA) in Bl ackboard provides educators  inspiration for course and 
assessment creation enabling  them  to spend less time on administrative  tasks and 
more time focused on their students . 
AIDA is already significantly enhancing instructor efficiency. Instructors report a 50% 
reduction in the time it takes to develop a course, allowing them to redirect that time 
toward engaging with students, providing mentorship, and ensuring student succes s. 
Since its launch, 675 institutions have enabled the feature, resulting in instructors 
engaging with the feature more than 1.3 million times. Introducing AI to faculty first was 
by design. Faculty were initially wary  of AI, not only due to concerns abou t students 
using tools like ChatGPT to complete assignments rather than engaging in the learning 
process themselves, but also because of the real issues inherent in AI -detection and 
plagiarism tools.  
Our approach of engaging faculty and stressing that the y were always in control of the 
output was imperative to the success we have had with their adoption of the AI feature. 
As AI continues to transform higher education, fostering AI literacy is essential to 
preparing students for a future where these technol ogies will be integral to their 
academic and professional success.  
The AI Conversation Tool in Blackboard is designed to cultivate responsible AI 
engagement, providing students with hands -on experiences  in leveraging generative AI 
while understanding its limitations. By embedding AI literacy into curricula, institutions 
can empower students to critically assess AI -generated content, apply ethical 
considerations, and develop the skills needed to navigate an evolving technological 
Docusign Envelope ID: 33F6390D-92DE-4067-BA1A-B907D68CF24F


4 landscape. This approach al igns with Anthology’s Trustworthy AI Framework, ensuring 
that AI adoption in education remains transparent, secure, and human -centered.   
We are also working on an AI Class Scheduling Assistant in our student information 
system, Anthology Student. The AI Cl ass Scheduling Assistant uses conversational AI 
to help users analyze scheduling needs, allowing them to ask the assistant questions 
typically buried in multiple reports. By responding to text -based inquiries, this assistant 
provides valuable insights into  class offerings and hiring needs, improving cost -
efficiency and enabling institutions to adapt their scheduling to student needs.  
To showcase these AI features and to discuss the crucial topic of trustworthy AI, 
Anthology launched an Ethical AI in Action World Tour  in October 2024, a 25 -stop 
global tour that brought thousands of education professionals from around the globe 
together. With both a national  and international audience, the feedback was consistent . 
The biggest challenge in incorporating AI -driven tools is a lack of clarity and confidence 
among education professionals, with a significant need for training and familiarity with AI 
tools. Transpar ency is highlighted as the top priority for ethical AI use.  
We have expanded on the global roadshow, now offering a series of virtual sessions, 
and an AI Literacy Course  for educators.  This course provides the foundations for 
understanding artificial intel ligence in education, supporting instructors in developing the 
practical skills they need to boost student engagement through AI technologies. It also 
addresses ethical AI policies in educational settings around course creation, 
assessment, and instruction  under Anthology’s trustworthy AI approach of “humans in 
control”. Faculty  learn  useful strategies for delivering a successful e -learning experience 
while leveraging AI technology responsibly and more confidently . 
We are now expanding our use of AI as we d esign a virtual reality experience that will 
allow remote students to be part of the classroom experience, driving a more “hands -
on” remote learning experience.  
Looking ahead  
At Anthology, providing value to our customers and our organization by leveragin g AI is 
a top priority. We have established an executive AI Working Group to coordinate AI -
related efforts across the company. Furthermore, we have created an AI Center of 
Excellence (AiCE). The AiCE brings together cross -functional experts who are 
passion ate about AI and committed to advancing its effective use. Our objective is to 
help employees adopt AI in a sustainable and cost -effective manner which aligns with 
business goals, innovation strategies, and the principles of trustworthy and ethical AI 
use.  
As AI technology and its adoption rapidly develop, we understand that our efforts to 
manage the related risks need to keep pace. For years, we have been committed to 
high standards in data privacy and security , which has led to more mature programs 
and e xternal recognition through certifications such as ISO 27001/27701, SOC2,  and 
Docusign Envelope ID: 33F6390D-92DE-4067-BA1A-B907D68CF24F


5 FedRAMP. We are taking the same approach for our Trustworthy AI program. We use 
the NIST AI Risk Management Framework as our “north star ”, with action plans to 
enhance our progra m and controls regarding the responsible use of AI. We also do this 
in anticipation of increased and rapid development of legislative and regulatory efforts 
worldwide to regulate AI risks.  
Recommended federal AI policy actions 
Education institutions have  historically been more cautious in adopting new 
technologies than other sectors. However, much like with previous examples of 
disruptive technologies, the resistance to AI today stems from uncertainties around its 
safety, security, and ethical implication s. As with previous technologies, addressing 
these concerns through transparency, rules , and oversight will build trust and broader 
acceptance of AI among consumers.  
We therefore encourage the U.S. government  to work with U.S. state legislators and 
interna tional counterparts to create a regulatory environment with consistent and 
predictable rules that balance innovation and risk.  
With the right balance, we are confident that this transformative technology will not only 
thrive but propel us and our customer s to new heights —expanding global access to 
education, delivering more personalized student experiences, and driving improved 
outcomes across higher education, government, corporate learning environments, and 
beyond.  
Because we are the global subject matte r experts on the application of AI in education, 
we would welcome the opportunity to serve on a committee or provide guidance and 
support as OSTP and NSF  consider legislation and the advancement of AI. From our 
firsthand experience in education, we have learned that a careful balance is key to 
accelerating the adoption of new and advanced technologies.  We are also acutely 
aware that as this technology evolves, our educational institutions will be at the forefront 
of teaching the next generation to rethink  how they work, learn, and operate in any field 
or industry. Pivotal to our success is a solid educational infrastructure grounded on 
ethical use, personalizing student experiences, and reaching the masses in both a 
traditional on -campus and remote learnin g experience.  
With advancements in AI supported by a confident public and a n education system  that 
is the envy of the world , the United States will lead innovation on a global scale, create 
life-changing opportunities, drive economic growth, and strengthe n our national security.  
Appendix - Anthology resources  
Trustworthy AI statement: https://www.anthology.com/trust -center/trustworthy -ai-
approach
AI Policy Framework for customers:
https://www.anthology.com/sites/default/files/2024 -08/AI -Policy -
Framework_v1_08 -24.pdf
Docusign Envelope ID: 33F6390D-92DE-4067-BA1A-B907D68CF24F


6 Research paper: AI in Highe r Ed: Hype, Harm, or Help:
https://www.anthology.com/paper/ai -in-higher -ed-hype -harm -or-help
 ______________________ __ 
 Bruce Dahlgren , CEO  
 Anthology Inc.  
Docusign Envelope ID: 33F6390D-92DE-4067-BA1A-B907D68CF24F


