March 5, 2025 
RE: Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
APAC GATES and Digital Rights Asia are pleased to submit these recommendations to the National 
Science Foundation pursuant to a F ederal R egister request for information o n the development of an A I 
Action Plan.  
We are a US and Indo-Pacific based digital rights and intellectual property research consultancy, and 
associat ed non-profit organization, with staff in the Seattle -area and Taipei, Taiwan. We provi de policy 
recommendations  to governments  across  the Indo-P acific region on AI. For further information p lease 
contact S eth Hays or visit o ur websites at https://apacgates.com  and 
https://digitalgovernance.asia .  
Securing U.S. Leadershi p in AI Through Innovati on & Competitive Advantage 
To maintain America’s leadership in artificial intelligence, policy must rely o n U.S. strengths in innovation 
ecosystems, financial markets, intellectual property, and energy resources. The United States must lead 
in setting AI governance framework benchmar ks that uphol d free, open a nd fa ir markets a nd democratic 
values, such as freedom of speech and associ ation, that foste r pro-innovation policies while countering 
adversarial influence, exploitation , and abuse in AI development.  
We recommend the following: 
•Develop the U.S. AI Success Institute (A ISI) to replace the AI Safety Institute, focusing on AI -
driven growth, risk mitigation, and global AI leadership.
•Establish a global AI coalition of free, open, and fair AI innovators, including governments,
industry, and research bodies , in particular in countries that  have deep AI and ICT industries,
such as Japan, Taiwan, or South Korea, to develop interoperable AI governance, infrastructure
and data ecosystems .
•Leverage the Data Free Flow with Trust (DFFT) initiative to establish trusted cross -border data
flows that prioritize privacy, security, and IP protections, while protecting against abusive data
practices by malign actors.
•Embed AI leadership into U.S. trade agreements, ensuring AI development is fostered in free,
open and fair level regulatory playing fields .
•Dedicate resources to prevent AI -related  IP theft and forced technology transfers .
•Capitalize on US energy advantages by using domestic energy surplus to power AI data centers ,
and support initiatives by countries that depend on energy imports to  utilize US energy to  build
out AI compute infrastructure .
•Create a National AI Compute Fund to ensure U.S. , and likeminded country partners,  firms and
research institutions have access to state -of-the-art AI computing resources.
•Foster development  of AI licensing frameworks that incentivize fair compensation for U.S.
innovators, and creators, recognizing that many datasets being used to train AI contain
uncompensated copyrighted material  by US copyright holders.
•Promote cyber defense initiatives  tackling empirical and actual AI related harms, such as criminal
enforcement against  AI-powered fraud , scams, and illicit trade.
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or conﬁdential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  


