March 14,  2025  
Faisal D'Souz a, Technical Coordinator 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development National Coordination 
Office National Science Foundation  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  Alexandria, VA 22314  
Re: Request fo r Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
As the bipartisan, national membership association representing state, county, and city human services agencies, the American Public Human Services Association (APHSA) welcomes the opportunity to submit comment on the Office of Science and Technology Polic y’s (OSTP) 
Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan. On behalf of our members and with their guidance and insights, APHSA  encourages the Networking 
and Information Technology Research and Development National Coordination Office  (NITRD 
NCO) to consider the following six focus areas in developing a Plan that enables:  
1.Coordinated Federal Governance;
2.Streamlined Federal Funding Mechanisms;
3.Improved Service Delivery and Administrative Efficiency;
4.Enhanced Security Protections;
5.Informed Human Oversight and Expertise; and most importantly ,
6.Sustained Thriving Communities
APHSA’s members administer economic assistance and child and family well- being services and 
benefits – such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), Temporary 
Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), child welfare  and others – at the state, county, and city 
levels. Our members are experts in overseeing and aligning these programs, which bolster community well- being through access to food, health care, employment, child care, and other 
key building blocks. In addition, APHSA’s members are leading experts in data analysis, health 
and human services Information Technology (IT) systems, workforce development and training, 
and legal dimensions of the sector.  
By convening affinity groups such as IT Solutions Management for Human Services (ISM)
1 and 
the Public Human Services Attorneys (PHSA),2 APHSA stays informed on common interests and 
concerns of IT and legal professionals in the human services sector. APHSA additionally 
convenes a Process Innovation Community of Practice focused on advancing process improvements in human services for more e fficient service delivery and improved customer 
1 For more information on ISM, see https://aphsa.org/ISM/ .   
2 For more information on PHSA, see https://aphsa.org/PHSA/ . 


experience. The insights and recommendations contained in this comment letter are deeply 
informed by the insight and input of these member groups.   
By incorporating the perspectives of human services agencies to establish a cohesive federal AI 
Action Plan, the Administration can empower states, counties, and cities to adopt responsible, 
community -oriented AI solutions. Taken together, these efforts can reduce administrative 
burdens, enhance service delivery, and uphold trust in government programs —ultimately 
benefiting taxpayers, agencies, and the communities they serve.   
This letter also includes an appendix  that synthesizes  key i ssues and  opportunities based on 
APHSA’s Election Transition  briefs, "Courageous Imperatives for Human Services ," whic h offer 
strategic recommendations to the Administration and Congress, focusing on unlocking the full 
potential of human services to foster a thriving nation.3 
Overview: Inputs & Engagements Informing Response 
For decades, APHSA has supported members on core technology issues, including disruptive innovations that change the ways we can do business – from migration to the cloud to legacy 
system overhauls and beyond. Because  AI regulations directly affect human services agencies , 
their staff, and their customers, we engaged them —through interviews, focus groups, working 
groups, conferences , and special initiatives —to gather insights on needs, priorities, and 
perspectives for using  AI to streamline essential  supports and services.  
Across the human services ecosystem, we have observed a strong and growing interest in the secure and effective use of AI technology to optimize service delivery and improve customer experience. Not only are public agencies eager for innovation, but their partners ready to support and their customers eager to engage in discussions.  
Key Considerations for the AI Action Plan 
Leveraging its AI Action Plan (“Plan”), the Administration can catalyze innovation in the human 
services sector of government and ensure that unnecessarily burdensome requirements do not 
hamper AI innovation by facilitating the coordinated development of federal guidance across agencies that enables ensure responsible procurement, development, and implementation. As outlined earlier, we have identified six key focus areas  for the AI Action Plan: 1) Coordinated 
Federal Governance ; 2) Streamlined Federal Funding Mechanisms ; 3) Improved Service 
Delivery ; 4) Enhanced Security Protections; 5) Informed Human Oversight, and 6) Sustained  
Thriving Communities. Below, we offer specific strategies and examples for implementation  in 
each of these focus areas.  
3 For all of APHSA’s Election Transition materials, visit: Election Transition Recommendations - APHSA  


1.Coordinated Federal Governance
AI technology has become much more pronounced in IT solutions on the market in recent 
years. The opportunity for effective use of this advancing technology could be endless. Yet, the federal government’s guidance on the use of AI remains fragmented, with each agency issuing 
its own separate directives.  This approach runs the risk of repeating past experiences of each 
agency developing its own rules and guidance that are misaligned with other federal agencies/programs, or in the worst case, conflicts with the same. State, county, and city human services agencies stand to benefit greatly from a more coordinated approach across federal 
agencies that lead human services programs such as the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services (CMS), the Administration for Children and Families (ACF), and the United St ates 
Department of Agriculture Food and Nutrition Service (FNS). To this end, the Plan should include a set of strategies for adoption of a unified federal approach to AI governance, 
rulemaking, and procurement which will contribute to a more competitive and responsible AI 
ecosystem  by aligning various affected parties under common frameworks and practices.  
Effective technology modernization and AI adoption, policy simplification, and streamlined workflows can solve persistent challenges agencies face. By embracing AI and other 
technological innovations, agencies can create efficiencies that reduce administra tive costs, 
directing more resources towards providing services. Such changes can enhance program 
outcomes, improve time and cost efficiencies for both workers and program participants, and strengthen program integrity. Despite significant interest at the state, county, and city levels of government, human services agencies have not yet been able to fully adopt technological advancements such as AI, robotic process automation (RPA), payment technology advancements, and other innovations that promise to impr ove the efficiency and effectiveness 
of human services.
4 This Administration has an opportunity to pursue a new path by publishing 
an AI Action Plan that promotes alignment across federal rules and guidance for consistent across federally -funded programs whenever possible, and to reverse policies that limit the use 
of these advanced technologies.  
2.Streamlined Federal Funding Mechanisms
The federal government can make strategic investments in AI systems that align health, human services, and labor program delivery operations, while meeting data privacy and security standards, to enhance agency efficiency at scale, promote cross -agency and  cross- program 
interoperability, and improve customer experience. A gencies  at the state level  recognize the 
need to secure AI-driven solutions according to  federal funding streams and regulations; 
however, current guidance on funding eligibility and approval criteria remains unclear. They  
4 For greater insight on how human services agencies hope to leverage advancements in AI, see APHSA’s 
Courageous Imperatives installment on technology innovation: 01_07_2025-CI -Series_D riving-Human-
Services-Tech_Final_01 -07-2025.pdf  


need more clearly defined AI investment criteria within APD submissions, including risk 
management strategies and proposal requirements to ensure timely approvals and funding.5 
The Plan should include federal strategies for high- impact investments in public sector 
technology, such as through streamlining Advanced Planning Document (APD) completion 
processes.  APDs play an important role in  federal  technology funding because these planning 
documents facilitate cost allocation across multiple federal programs for shared state services. 
Managed by State Systems Offices , APD submissions follo w a formal procedure through which 
states obtain federal approval and financial participation for their technology projects. This process includes different requirements based on the risk assessment of the IT projects, ensuring compliance with federal regula tions ; typically,  there are fewer requirements for lower -
risk IT projects, and increased oversight for higher -risk projects.   
More over , APHSA members appreciate that transparency in AI procurement is needed for 
solutions that allow agencies and customers to understand how and why their data is being used, shared, and stored. Federal support for assessing AI vendors could help for some agencies in selecting trustworthy  solutions. Federal agencies should empower CAIOs, data and tech 
officers, privacy experts, customers, and other relevant parties to participate in every stage of AI procurement and implementation to promote privacy and security.  
3.Improved Service Delivery and Administrative Efficiency
Many human services agencies are eager to harness  AI to streamline operations and improve 
administrative efficiency  and service delivery , particularly as they grapple with workforce 
shortages and outdated technology. AI can help address these issues especially  when paired 
with strategies to streamline workflows, simplify tasks, and modernize outdated technology. AI 
tools can streamline service delivery and reduce administrative burdens by automating routine 
tasks, such as data entry, scheduling, note taking, and document verification. Predictive analytics could also be used to enhance outreach and targeted services, ensuring resources are efficiently delivered to eligible individuals at the correct benefit levels.  
Some agencies have expressed strong interest in piloting responsible AI models; however, they are hindered by funding constraints , regulatory barriers , and lack of technical knowledge and 
support. To address this shared need across states, federal agencies should consider including 
in the Plan options for establishing fast- track approval pathways for AI uses, relaxed standards 
for AI uses in the proof- of-concept stage, and public -private partnership s with AI research 
institutions, universities, technology firms, and other key industry partners. Federal plans should prepare for bolstering worker technical literacy and proficiency using AI tools.  
5 For more information on risk management strategies, agencies can reference the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology’s AI Risk Management Framework.  


Leaders across human services agencies recognize the power of leveraging technology and 
process improvements —like streamlining applications and modernizing outdated systems —to 
make services more seamless without growing government. Like their federal count erparts, 
state and county government leaders must be smart stewards of limited budgets and focus on 
using taxpayer dollars wisely while improving service delivery. To this end, the Plan should 
support the generation of AI -enabled efficiencies across the human services ecosystem that 
empower agency employees to focus their efforts on the more nuanced aspects of their roles, including building meaningful human-to- human interactions with community and centering 
mission -driven efforts that meet the expectations  of taxpayers.  
4.Enhanced Security Protections
The Plan should equip Federal departments with the capacity to provide support to human 
services agencies through funding, technical assistance, or any other targeted resources identified by human services agencies to promote safe AI implementation and mitigate risks for recipients (e.g., implementation checklists, best practices, trainings). In addition, the Action 
Plan can establish the foundation for broader guidance on best practices for auditing, mitigating 
risk, reducing potential for errors, and monitoring unintended consequences.  
Public agencies must take special care to protect recipients and avoid adverse outcomes for all 
Americans. AI use cases that stand to directly impact the well -being of individuals served by 
public agencies –such as applications of AI for determining program eligibility, detecting 
potential fraud, and automating processes –require more stringent oversight than other uses. 
Because of their potential to cause significant harm if carried out inappropriately, these use cases necessitate rigorous testing and protocols to mitigate risks.  Agencies must take necessary 
precautions related to data privacy, security and  storage. Uses of AI in human services 
programs must align with federal privacy regulations, such as The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ( HIPAA ), title 42, 42 CFR 401.713, the Privacy Act of 1974, and 
existing data -sharing policies.  
Clear federal guidance is needed to promote the use of privacy -preserving AI techniques and to 
develop data sharing agreements, providing states with access to federal data to refine AI systems while ensuring stringent privacy protections.  APHSA members suggest  the Plan include 
instructions for agencies not to collect or store personal information in AI systems without 
explicit consent, and to take me asures to  protect  data as it is stored and moved between 
systems through strong security protocols and encryption. The Plan should make clear that no private data should be included in publicly accessible training models. To support the secure and scalable use of AI, the federal government should make investments in robust data infrastructure, cybersecurity advancements, and efficient energy -powered data centers.  


5. Informed Human Oversight and Expertise  
AI is a promising tool to support human efforts, not a replacement for critical human thinking 
and oversight. Effective use of AI in human services requires deep understanding of current technology and promising design principles for re -engineering these systems. The adoption of 
AI as a new operational norm represents an opportunity to deploy human- centered design 
principles to redesign our systems based on the needs and experiences of human services customers. Customer and end- user input is key to tech- enabled, community -driven process 
innovation. The Plan should include instructions for agencies to work with applicants and 
participants to ensure AI uses are transparent and empowering, as well as implement ongoing 
customer feedback mechanisms to inform continuous improvements.  
In order to become ready for ethical, customer -centered adoption of AI in operations, state 
agencies will need federal support to develop human oversight mechanisms, including:  
• Train staff to ensure they can use tools correctly, efficiently, and ethically.  
• Preserve participants’ informed consent and right to appeal decisions made by an AI tool.  
• Develop clear  policies about use of AI, providing clear attribution of AI -generated content.  
• Publish and follow a structured plan for addressing concerns brought by applicants and participants related to AI use.  
These practices, along with others mentioned throughout this response, will be crucial in building and maintaining public trust in government and AI adoption.  
 
6. Sustained Thriving Communities  
AI applications in human services agencies should promote thriving communities built on human potential. Generative AI can enable agencies to meet the wide- ranging needs of their 
communities; for instance, AI -enabled systems can break down language barriers simplify 
expedient information sharing. Other examples of applications of AI APHSA members hope to leverage in service of their communities include, but are not limited to:  
• Screen readers and audio aids for government websites and digital services;  
• Braille conversion for government documents and notices;  
• Real -time transcription and translation support;  
• Language simplification tools to make legal and bureaucratic language more accessible;  
• Virtual r eal-time interpretation of spoken or written sign language; and,  
• Customizable communication formats such as larger text, high -contrast colors, and audio 
descriptions for people with various accessibility needs.  
In conclusion, APHSA believes that a cohesive federal AI Action Plan —developed in 
collaboration with human services agencies —will enable states, counties, and cities to leverage 


AI responsibly and effectively. We urge NITRD NCO and its federal partners to consider these 
recommendations as integral to accelerating innovation, maintaining public trust, and ensuring 
better outcomes for all.   
APHSA stands ready to collaborate on pilot projects, convene key stakeholders, and share 
further insights from our members’ direct experiences implementing AI in human services.  We 
appreciate the opportunity to provide feedback on the development of an AI Action Plan and 
encourages agencies to reference our Artificial Intelligence resources , including our 
foundational tenets for AI use and our AI -Powered SNAP Modernization briefs.  For questions or 
to discuss further, please contact Jessica Maneely, Assistant Director, Process Innovation, 
APHSA, at 
Sincerely,  
Jess Man eely 
Assistant Director, Process Innovation  
American Public Human Services Associat ion 


APPENDIX  
Synthesized Recommendations: Key Issues and Opportunities  
These recommendations are based on APHSA’s Election Transition briefs, "Courageous 
Imperatives for Human Services," which offer strategic recommendations to the Administration and Congress, focusing on unlocking the full potential of human services to foster a thriving nation. 
1.The Admini stration can help human services agencies unlock the promise of advancing
technology to improve program delivery by taking action to catalyze innovation and byinstituting policy and planning changes that assure systems interoperability.
2.The Administration can prioritize program efficiency, quality, and customer experience ofthe nation’s benefit programs and take action to increase policy flexibility, alignment, and
innovation across programs
Technology and Process Innovation  
Key Issues  Key Opportunities  
State human services agency leaders 
navigate complicated and time-intensive 
requirements to gain approval from the federal government to test innovations and introduce new technologies to administer federal benefit programs.  
Merit st aff requirements in SNAP require 
eligibility and certification functions be done by public sector “merit” employees. Not only does this requirement prevent 
the use of qualified contractors which 
could reduce costs to government, the USDA interprets  this requirement as to 
prevent the use of AI, RPA, and other technology innovations. 
Insuffi cient resources are provided for 
states to pursue technological advancements to reduce stolen federal 
benefits.  Streamline and modernize the process and reduce the 
approval timeframes for the Advanced Planning Document 
(APD) processes, including the elimination of the “major change requirement” which would allow states to implement new technologies without seeking a dditional 
federal approval.  
Encoura ge innovation by simplifying the process for 
approving program waivers, conducting program demonstration projects (including eliminating the cost neutrality requirement), and encouraging states and local 
governments to test the use of new technologi es. 
Give sta tes the flexibility to use non -merit staff and 
automation to perform necessary eligibility and certification 
functions in SNAP. 
Increase the administrative matching funds for states to 90% 
for costs associated with implementation of chip -enabled 
Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) cards for a period of 3 
years.  


Modernize Program Design and Delivery Models  
Key Issues  Key Opportunities  
The technology landscape including the 
increasing prevalence of Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) is rapidly evolving, outpacing government policymaking capacity.  
State age ncies face complicated and 
time -intensive requirements to obtain 
federal approval for testing policy, process, and technology innovations, and 
desire greater individual support for their 
unique programs. 
Federal r ules continue to require states 
to report on compliance -oriented 
measures but leave out a focus on outcome -driven metrics and hold states 
accountable to unrealistic measures of program integrity.  
Disjointe d cost-allocation rules hinder 
program alignment by restricting funds to specific programs, making it difficult to support shared resources, such as staff and technology, that could efficiently 
serve multiple programs and their shared 
customers.  
Typical  decision -making processes in 
technology, program, and policy design often exclude end -user experiences or 
community voice.  Invest in modern technologies, including AI -powered 
interoperable systems, to enable states to streamline processes, reduce administrative burdens, and enhance service efficiency.  
Scale p roven innovations by transitioning demonstration 
projects and waivers to permanent state options.  
Work wit h states to explore and adopt more reliable ways to 
measure program integrity and payment accuracy that 
assess program performance and incentivize innovation.  
Create  an Office of Technical Assistance within FNS to 
support state SNAP agencies on identifying and tackling root 
causes of error rates.  
Require all f ederal programs to utilize inclusive engagement 
strategies that center the voices of communities served by human services programs and the end -users of government-
built technology systems to ensure the right investments are 
made when programs are being designed, reformed, or 
modified.  
Align Policies and Increase Flexibility  
Key Issues  Key Opportunities  
Differing eligibility rules across programs, 
including those pertaining to income, assets, work requirements, verification, and reporting. 
Limited flexibility in program design, including federal merit staff 
requirements, constrain service capacity.  Streamline verification and eligibility by making consistent 
the disregard of subsidized income across programs such as Medicaid and SNAP, and support states to attain the best available tools across programs such as for income 
verification. 
Promote policy flexibilities that have proven effective at 
reducing administrative burden, such as allowing for 


Current financing models impact the 
capacity of agencies and trigger federal 
requirements and therefore impact agencies' flexibility and ability to align program operations and service delivery for shared customers.  
Program p erformance measures exclude 
customer satisfaction metrics, focus on reporting requirements mandated at the federal level, and are not aligned across 
programs. extended certification periods for those with no earned 
income, allowing technology to support interviews and reporting, and streamlining eligibility across programs . 
Align fu nding models and the reporting and cost-allocation 
rules associated with program funding to enable seamless 
service delivery for customers served under multiple federal 
programs. 
Achieve  cross -agency alignment by establishing a National 
Technical Assistance Center for Program Alignment and 
Integrity to align policies across federal programs, led by the 
Office of Management and Budget and guided by advisor 
representatives from the D epartment of Health and Human 
Services (HHS), the USDA’s Food and Nutrition Service (FNS), the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and the Department of Labor (DOL). 
Data Sharing and Interoperability  
Key Issues  Key Opportunities  
Limited data sharing or other 
interoperable policies and solutions exist 
across federally funded programs and 
systems, despite serving the same individual and/or family and using the same service providers.  
Siloed sys tem implementation that 
repeats common functionality (intake, eligibility, case management, provider management, financial management) and 
requires the same data elements to be 
entered multiple times for different federal programs. 
Duplication  of processes, multiple 
systems and protocols, and lack of federal coordination adds costs, increases risk of fraud and errors, and diminishes the client experience with government services. Direct clear authority across human service and workforce 
development programs to share individual -level data for the 
purpose of program administration while respecting individual privacy and providing the necessary consent language, driving efficiency and  effectiveness across health 
and human services programs. 
Increas e the federal financial participation for all systems 
development and maintenance to the 90/10 Medicaid rate if states meet federal requirements for interoperability.  
For receipt of federal funding (through the ADP process), 
require that proposed solutions include the following:  
— Human-centered design principles to redesign systems 
based on the needs and experiences of customers;  
— Demonstrate how solution components/modules can be 
leveraged or re -used by other programs;  
— Require the use of interoperability technologies and 
standards to facilitate cross -system and thus cross-program 
data sharing and case management; and  
— Require continuous testing and monitoring of an AI-based 
system during deployment in operations to mitigate risks.  
### 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential 
information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution.


