1 
1220 L St, NW, Suite 1000, Washington, DC 20005 -4018 |  | www.aplu.org  
March 14, 2025  
Mr. Faisal D’Souza  
Technical Coordinator  
National Coordination Office  
National Science Foundation  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Re: Request for Information  (RF) on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action 
Plan 
Dear Mr. D’Souza , 
On behalf of the Association of Public and Land -grant Universities (APLU), we appreciate the 
opportunity to respond to the U.S. National Science Foundation ’s (NSF)  RFI on an AI Action 
Plan on behalf of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy ( OSTP ). APLU’s 
response focuses on the unique role that public research universities play in ensuring American 
AI dominance by complementing , and working  in partnership with , the groundbreaking  AI work 
taking place in private industr y. 
APLU is a membership organization that fosters a community of university leaders collectively 
working to advance the mission of public research universities. The association’s U.S 
membership consists of more than 230 public research universities and system s across all 50 
states. The association and its members collectively focus on student success and workforce 
readiness; promoting pathbreaking scientific research; and bolstering economic and community 
engagement.  
The growth of AI has spurred many task forces and pilot programs to determine  on how research 
universities can use these new tools to strengthen the efficiency and security of the research 
ecosystem, set technical standards, and contribute to further advances in AI  that propel that 
nation ’s economic competitiveness . APLU convened a group of senior research of ficers  of 
member universities  to discuss this RFI , and they provided several insights grouped into policies 
for advancing AI energy efficiency, ensuring safe data usage, building  trust in the AI ecosystem, 
encouraging small business, training the next generation of skilled workers through hands on 
training and advanced infrastructure , and supporting a whole -of-government approach to AI 
innovation . APLU welcomes the opportunity to partner with the administration in furtherance of 
shared goals of enhancing U.S. AI competitiveness  and furthering economic interests.  Public 
research universities are an optimal partner given unique capacities in scientific research, 


2 longstanding partnerships with industry, and critical role in developing the next generation 
workforce that holds the promise of U.S. competitiveness in the short and long -term.  
Insights to Support American AI Dominance  
Co-creating  Advances in AI Energy Efficiency  
Private industry  and academia are united in concern regarding the energy footprint of model 
training and end-user usage of AI.  Evident by Microsofti and Googleii’s exploration of nuclear 
power use, there is tremendous demand by private industry to expand and strengthen the 
necessary power systems required by energy intensive AI tools.  Advances in both yield and 
efficiency will enable AI tools to be reliably  used in day-to-day life. Universities have a long 
history of successful research in broadening energy sources  through collaboration with agencies 
such as the U.S. Department of Energy  (DOE ) in energy programs related to nuclear power and 
grid resiliency.  Public dissemination of results from these advancements enables  growth across 
the marketplace, from small businesses to conglomerates .  
Recommendation 1: The AI Action Plan should  outline a funding plan for  federal programs to 
support research of energy -efficient AI that benefit  the full marketplace , power the development 
of the next generation of AI tools , and support the Administration’s Executive Order 
“Unleashing American Energy”iii. 
Leveraging Robust  Data from America’s Research Universities  to Accelerate Science   
The academic sector is primed to address universal  AI concerns  such as data curation and the use 
of AI tools in domain specific ways to accelerate American innovation . Public r esearch 
universities embrace the whole trajectory of AI  powered tools, from hardware and data curation 
to final application . They also  host rich portfolios of basic research data spanning astronomy to 
zoology . The combination of these experiences has created a sector  prepared for the time-
consuming  task of cleaning and curating heterogeneous data sets and identifying new uses for 
shared tools in domain specific instances . For example, if biomedical researchers  can use an AI 
co-scientist to automate analyses  of samples , the researcher s can focus on the underlying 
hypothesis and results of the experiment.   
Recommendation 2: As the Administration  considers how to accelerate American science, the AI 
Action Plan  should support pilot programs focused on the curation and use of heterogenous data 
sets through  discipline -specific trials .  
Building  Trust in AI  
Similar to  the data curation suggestion above, universities can serve as a third -party  validator  for 
open -source data sets for large language models . Rather than dictating any specific data to be 
used, universities can use their experts to examine commonly used data sets to give them a ‘clean 
bill of health’ asserting that the data set has not been tampered with or deviates from its 
described contents .  


3 Recommendation 3: The AI Action Plan should  support  funding plans  and encourage  research 
that authenticates  underlying data  to cultivate trust in the AI tools.  
Encourage Start Ups and Small Businesses  Across the Nation   
Public r esearch universities provide an entrepreneurial environment where researchers and 
students can take a breakthrough idea and commercialize  the result . APLU supports these 
activities through  a rich history of linking research with  economic development , for example 
through  the APLU Innovation & Economic Prosperity Programiv. The Administration should 
support policies which lower the administrative burden of academic startups  and industry 
partnership s, especially in AI driven inventions . For example, compute credits are a mechanism 
where a n entity is  ‘credited’ a specific amount of high-performance computing power or time , at 
National Labs or potentially supported by  industry .  
Recommendation 4: The AI Action Plan  should  support  funding plans  for compute credits for 
small businesses interested in collaborating with academia to connect  collaborators in each 
sector.  At a larger scale, the AI Action Plan should support  regional - or state -based shared 
service centers, affirmations of the patentability of new AI innovations, and broad  collaboration 
between the growing number of state -based  AI initiatives to share successful practices.  
Training the Workforce for Tomorrow  Through Hands -on Training and Infrastructure    
Research universities educate  the next generation of innovators, programmers, and 
entrepreneurs. Yet there remains substantial demand for additional science and technology 
trained workers . The Science & Technology Action Committee (STAC)v identified labor market 
gaps facing the U.S. semiconductor industryvi. Additionally, the U.S. National Science 
Foundation (NSF)’s 2022 -2026 Strategic Planvii highlights the agency’s objective to unleash 
STEM talent for America .  
Recommendation 5: The AI Action Plan  should support programs to train STEM graduates 
through targeted investment in AI, semiconductor , computer science , and computer engineering  
related fields across the full spectrum of qualifications (e.g. 2-year, 4-year, graduate levels) . The 
AI Action Plan should also support NSF through recommendations to fund workforce 
development programs  and AI infrastructure at research universities to ensure access to hand s-
on training across the country.  
Whole -of-Government Support of AI  
Federal agencies responded swiftly to recent advances in AI tools ; the U.S. National Science 
Foundation  stood up the National Artificial Intelligence Research Resource Pilot , Department of 
Energy  launched the Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence for Science, Security and Technology 
initiative , and  the National Institutes of Health created the Bridge2AI program.  These programs 
have stimulated innovation across the R&D ecosystem through making compute, resources, and 
models accessible to the nation’s researchers.  
Recommendation 6: The AI Action Plan should build upon the momentum from, and support the 
funding of,  the wide range of AI investments already in progress across the federal agencies . 


4 Thank you for providing the opportunity for the community to respond . APLU’s  extensive 
network of public research universities, our long history supporting basic research and 
innovation, and our mission to build the workforce of tomorrow underline the above 
recommendations  connect these recommendations to the needs of  the AI Action plan, and  APLU 
welcomes the opportunity to discuss our work and recommendations in more detail.  
Sincerely,  
Deborah Altenburg  
Vice Presi dent, Reserch Policy and Advoca cy  
Association of Public and Land -grant Universities  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
i https://www.constellationenergy.com/newsroom/2024/Constellation -to-Launch -Crane -Clean -Energy -
Center -Restoring -Jobs -and-Carbon -Free -Power -to-The-Grid.html  
ii https://blog.google/outreach -initiatives/sustainability/google -kairos -power -nuclear -energy -agreement/  
iii https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential -actions/2025/01/unleashing -american -energy/  
iv https://www.aplu.org/our -work/innovation -and-economic -prosperity -universities -designation -and-
awards -program/  
v https://sciencetechaction.org/committee  
vi https://www.semiconductors.org/chipping -away -assessing -and-addressing -the-labor -market -gap-
facing -the-u-s-semiconductor -industry/  
vii https://www.nsf.gov/reports/planning/leading -world -discovery -innovation -stem -talent -development  


