March 15, 2025   Applied Digital Corporation  
3811 Turtle Creek Blvd.  
Suite 2100  
Dallas, TX 75219  
United States  
Subject: RFI on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan  
To whom it may concern,  
On behalf of Applied Digital , we welcome the opportunity to respond to the Office of 
Science and Technology Policy (OSTP ) and National Science Foundation’s requests  for 
input on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (“Plan”). We 
commend actions that the current administration has done thus far to increase energy 
supply and support high -tech industries, and we  believe that with these further 
recommendations , the U.S. can maintain  and amplify its status as the world leader in AI 
and innovation.  
Overview of Applied Digital  
Applied Digital (Nasdaq: APLD) designs, develops, and operates next -generation data 
centers across North America to provide digital infrastructure solutions to the rapidly 
growing high -performance computing (HPC) industry . Applied Digital is  a U.S.-based 
provider of next -generation digital infrastructure, redefining how digital leaders scale HPC. 
With dedicated and experienced leadership in the fields of artificial intelligence/machine 
learning ( AI/ML), power procurement, engineering, real estate , and construction, Applied 
Digital is positioned to provide purpose -built, cutting -edge infrastructure for HPC plus AI-
based applications . The Company is  at the forefront of powering tomorrow's technology, 
today, with operations span ning across North America. The Company  currently owns and 
operate data centers with a combined capacity of approximately 280 megawatts, a 
testament to our role as a key player in the digital infrastructure landscape  and has 
approvals for hundreds of megawatts more of capacity, much of which is under 
construction . 
Our infrastructure differs from traditional data centers. These specialized facilities are 
designed specifically to accommodate the unique requirements of AI workloads. Unlike 
traditional data centers, which are geared toward general computing tasks and data 
storage, AI data centers are optimized for the high computational demands and data 


throughput needs of AI and ML algorithms. Reducing redundancy and building on a mix of 
power sources is a major benefit for AI clusters , which are engineered for checkpointing 
and resilience . 
Energy Requirements  
Energy consumption is a significant consideration when building our data centers. As a 
result, site selection and working with local utilities and providers are key to ensuring 
energy needs can be met while maintaining affordable rates within the communities in 
which we operate.  By way of example, Goldman Sachs Research estimates that data 
center power demand will grow 160% by 2030  and account for nearly 20% of energy use.1   
A single ChatGPT query  is estimated to  require 2.9 watt -hours of electricity, compared with 
0.3 watt-hours for a Google search, according to the International Energy Agency.  Data 
center power consumption from AI will be on the order of 2 60 terawatt -hours per year  in 
2026.2 US utilities will need to invest around $50 billion in new generation capacity just to 
support data centers alone.  Working to build the right energy mix that meets the current 
and future demand must  be considered when developing policies around the AI industry.  
To manage the inherent energy requirements, w e leverage cold air and  the northern  climate 
for the lowest power usage effectiveness and water usage effectiveness  to help decrease 
customer costs and increase energy available . By coupling locations and climate, we offer 
a cost-effective choice for data center operations. As a result, A pplied Digital has s aved 
North Dakota ratepayers approximately $5.4 million in 2023  and current estimates by MDU 
show that ratepayers in North Dakota will save an additional $14 million as a direct result of 
our operations in 2024 .3 Policies that support the building out of AI infrastructure should be 
measured against such metrics.  
Supply Chain Stability  
Our hyper-scale facilities require robust and predictable supply chains, particularly fo r 
high-tech components such as central processing units (CPUs), graphics processing units 
(GPUs), electrical transformers, etc. As a company rooted in supporting American AI 
leadership, we support the increase of domestic manufacturing to provide for the facility, 
energy, and technology needs of AI data centers.  
1 Goldman Sachs (2024). “ AI Is Poised to Drive 160% Increase in Data Center Power Demand.” 
AI is poised to drive 160% increase in data center power demand | Goldman Sachs . 
2 International Energy Agency (2024). “ Electricity 2024 Analysis and Forecast to 2026 .” 
3 North Dakota State University (2024). “Ap plied Digital Aligns Climate and Energy to Transform Data Centers .” 


Additionally, t he use of AI can revolutionize the planning, production , and optimization of 
supply chains by processing vast amounts of data to predict trends and perform complex 
tasks in real time. Modern supply chains are expensive,  including  broad data sets that must 
be processed.  AI system s at a global scale are complex and require supply chain planners 
to constantly manage how tools are performing and fine -tune them as needed.  
Human interaction should be an ever-present solution and the key interface  in managing 
and handling supply chain risks. AI is a tool; it cannot build relationships. There is a 
misconception that AI can replace human intelligence, but in fact, AI should  augment  it. 
Furthermore, if technology fails, humans with expertise must keep the supply chain 
running. This requires a ready workforce.  
Workforce Development  
The addition of one of our data centers provides economic stimulus for smaller populated 
and rural communities. Furthermore, we take the time to hire locally and provide employer -
led training . On a single 100 megawatt project, d uring peak construction phases, we create 
over 400 jobs with wages above the median pay where we are currently under 
development. Once operational, a single 100 megawatt project is projected to employ 
roughly 100 individuals, also with wages above the  local median pay. Our typical ca mpus is 
expected to be 300 to 500 megawatts , and thus the construction and permanent roles are 
much larger. Given the impact, w e work with communities on temporary and permanent 
housing needs as well as other economic development needs.  
When developing a site, a project will likely be subject to the prevailing wage and 
apprenticeship requirements . To ensure a ready and available workforce, it is necessary to 
ensure full clarity on Davis Bacon Act (DBA) enforcement and the existing wage 
determination process for construction. It is important to ensure there are fair rates for 
compensation without s traying from the established and trusted approach of DBA, as 
changes in the approach can risk delaying projects. To do so, the Department of Labo r’s 
Wage and Hours Division (WHD) should use data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics to 
accurately assess the prevailing wages for occupations. Further, the surveys from WHD 
should be localized at the individual county or regional multi-county level to calculate 
wages and to mitigate against flawed determinations for critical jobs during the 
construction process.    
Paramount among these is the qualification of locally administered apprenticeship 
programs. Industry forecasts suggest that the existing talent pipeline is unequipped to 


satisfy surging industry demand both in the near and long term. Local and private -sector 
apprenticeship programs are prepared to help the sector overcome this challenge  
Last, all jobs directly related to  AI need not require a four -year college degree.  In fact, it is 
appropriate to consider vocational training for technology careers to ensure that the 
demand for qualified professionals is met.  Our data centers require on -site electricians, 
plumbers, and countless other trades to support our daily operations and site 
development. Technical training should be supported where possible through internships, 
apprenticeships , and other training options beginning at the secondary e ducation level to 
allow individuals to gain skills at the earliest and most appropriate learning opportunity.  
Strategic Sitin g 
Noted previously, we conduct our site selection process based on a number of factors , 
including the right mix of policy and economic indicators  to create the best fit for our 
projects within a local community. Applied Digital  values its communities and aspire s to be 
a value-added business  to the local , mostly rural,  economies. Our commitment to our 
communities begins in parallel with our site selection process. We visit every location, 
meet residents, and identify community needs prior to starting projects. Our team hosts 
town halls to speak to residents and educate them, as well as answer any questions and 
address concerns.  
The process for site selection can be complex and can take years of community 
engagement to solidify partnerships that work within a local area. During this process, 
significant time and money are dedicated to creating the durable framework for success 
within a reasonable financial investment window. As Congress and the administration work 
to streamline siting and permitting processes, it is important to underscore the need for 
shortening the length of time for judicial review and what may be included in a judicial 
proceeding based on  National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)  requirement s. For example, 
only when an issue has been included in an environmental impact statement should it be 
fair for consideration. Additionally, allowing states appropriate latitude within NEPA 
parameters will help to provide certainty around all phases of construction and up to 
project completion. Timely review is critical for business to provide the time sensitive 
progress that data center tenants require. If the federal governme nt cannot sustain those 
reasonable timelines, full delegation to States to handle the process in a reasonable 
timeframe.  
Data Privacy  


Ensuring the operational security of our clients' data  center equipment is a paramount 
priority. We provide comprehensive protection to safeguard the integrity and confidentiality 
of all data center asset s. To support our safety measures, federal policy can help to build 
industry standards.  
Congress and the administration should make every effort to ensure the safety of data and 
to maintain requirements for facilities, particularly those that house and process strategic 
governmental information. Applied Digital supports legislative and regulatory efforts that 
safeguard data while providing for A I and ML. Federal agencies should take care to use 
privacy-enhancing technologies (PETs) to protect personal information, given AI can 
excerpt, link, deduce, and act on sensitive information about individuals, their identity , 
locations , and preferences.4 To do so, data minimization should be incorporated into 
products by design , which includes PETs . Industry is well poised to assist in creating these 
structures that support the use of AI as a tool for creating efficiencies. Ultimately, 
commercial privacy standards must balance the need to support cross -border data flows 
for digital commerce, communications, and innovation.  
We thank you for your attention to this important issue as AI continues to shape the future 
of how we manage and utilize information . The US has the opportunity to be a policy leader 
in AI while creating an environment where information is used in a safe and efficient 
manner to benefit industries large and small.  
Applied Digital Statement  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  
Sincerely,  
/s/ 
Nick Phillips  
EVP External Affair s 
4 Fondrie-Teitler, S. (February 2024). “ Keeping Your Privacy Enhancing Technology (PET) Promises .” 
 Keeping Your Privacy Enhancing Technology (PET) Promises | Federal Trade Commission . 


