Networking and Information Technology Research 
and Development (NITRD) 
Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) 
Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
Request for Information (RFI) 
Due: 11:59 PM ET, March 15,  2025 
Prepare d for: 
Networkin g and Information Techn ology Research and Development (NITRD) 
Nation al Coordination Office (NCO) 
Nation al Science Foundation 
Email: ostp-ai-rfi@nitrd.gov 
Prepare d by: 
Ardent Management Consulting, LLC 
1945 Old Gallows Road, Suite 540B 
Vienna, Virginia 22182-3983 
Name: Donella Lael, Contracts Director 
Unique Entity ID: H8YMWAKEKPN5  / CAGE: 4H0Q6  
Large Business  
Phone:  703-964-8010 / Fax:  703-991-7595  
www.ArdentMC.com  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.


NITRD NCO OSTP   
Artificial Intelligence Action Plan RFI  
March  15, 202 5                                                2 
 
1 Executive S ummary  
The United States stands at a pivotal moment in the global Artificial Intelligence ( AI) landscape. 
While it has long been a leader in technological innovation, rapid advancements by peer 
competitors, shifting industry dynamics, and regulatory uncertainties require a proactive and 
comprehensive national strategy. The United States has historically led global technological 
innovation through strategic government policies that prioritize education, research and 
development, public -private partnerships, and mar ket-driven competition.  
To sustain and enhance this leadership in AI, the forthcoming AI Action Plan must incorporate 
concrete policy that align with successful historical precedents while addressing contemporary 
challenges. Conversely, a  lack of U.S. leadership in developing clear AI standards would create 
an international vacuum, allowing the EU, China , or other economic rivals to develop de facto 
global standard s, providing  foreign companies an economic edge . In turn, w e offer key policy 
recommendations across major AI policy areas.  By implementing the proposed policy actions  
focused on education and workforce development, research and development,  hardware,  AI risk 
management, national security applications, and fostering innovation through public -private 
collaboration , the U.S. can reinforce its leadership in AI and e stablish  long-term competitiveness.  
Ardent Management Consulting, LLC (Ardent) has provided digital transformation, location 
intelligence, and analytics to numerous government agencies for over 18 years. Ardent is all in 
when it comes to providing exceptional service and quality solutions to  our customers. We are a 
proud service -disabled veteran owned business striving to improve the mission and support our 
nation. The technology and threat landscape are ever evolving, and we have taken significant 
strides to stay abreast by standing up our o wn innovation unit and pouring resources into 
developing our intellectual and human capital with regards to artificial intelligence and machine 
learning. As a company competing in the Artificial Intelligence/ Machine Learning ( AI/ML ) 
market and driving policy through National Institute of Standards  and Technology ’s (NIST’s ) AI 
Safety Institute Consortium, we have firsthand  knowledge of the opportunities and challenges 
faced in the industry  and we are committed to supporting our nation  to the best of our ability.  
History has shown that strategic government intervention, whether through investment in 
foundational research, regulatory adaptability, or fostering public -private partnerships, has 
played a key role in advancing technology. The AI Action Plan must continue this tradition by 
aligning federal policies with the needs of academia, industry, and national security. A we ll-
structured, forward -looking approach will not only drive AI innovation but also create a resilient 
ecosystem that ensures economic growth, national security, and responsible AI deployment.  
By making AI a national priority —one that is accessible, reliable, and innovative —the U .S. can 
shape the future of AI development and application, setting global standards while maintaining 
its leadership in the most transformative technology of our time .

NITRD NCO OSTP   
Artificial Intelligence Action Plan RFI  
March  15, 202 5                                                2 
 
2 Relevant AI Policy Topics  
2.1 Hardware  and Chips  
Suggested Policy Action:  The government must put forth policy to spur continued improvement 
in AI hardware, including GPUs, ASICs, and novel computing architectures like neuromorphic, 
reversible, and quantum computing.  
Policy Areas:  Grants for fundamental and applied research, SBIR and transition funding for 
commercialization, CRADAs for public -private partnerships, and tax incentives for performing 
innovative work.  
Intended Outcome:  Establish a full -lifecycle support system that encourages continuous 
technological growth, maintaining the U.S. lead in AI hardware advancements and preventing 
adversaries from surpassing domestic capabilities.  
The third AI summer  started in 2012, when the first deep neural network (AlexNet) was 
successfully trained on a Graphic s Process ing Unit ( GPU ) and significantly outperformed the 
competi tion on the ImageNet challenge. Since then, GPUs, driven by  PC gamers and AI/ML 
researchers, have grown exponentially in performance . The recent  Framework for Artificial 
Intelligence Diffusion was implemented to keep these powerful GPUs out of the hands of our 
nation’s adversaries  and so far, this effort has been moderately successful . This has been  
demonstrated by the release of DeepSeek r1, which took the world by storm when it was 
announced that it trained on a fraction of the compute that other leading foundation models 
require.  
However, since GPUs are a commodity, completely preventing the flow of them to other 
countries, both directly and indirectly, is  virtually impossible. In the private sector , blocking 
others  is only an effective  strategy  for monopolies , everyone else must compete and take efforts 
to maintain their competitive advantage . The same can be said of nations. Rather than 
ineffectually blocking  other countries ’ technological progress, we must  fight to maintain our 
technological edge.  
Therefore, the government must put forth policy to spur continued improvement in hardware for 
AI, such as GPUs , Application  Specific Integrat ed Circuit s (ASICs ), and novel computing 
architectures  like neuromorphic, reversible, and quantum computing. The policy must include  
grants for fundamental and applied research , Small Business Innovation  Research  (SBIR) and 
transition funding for commercialization, establish Collaborative Research and Development 
Agreement s (CRADA s) for public -private partnerships , and tax incentives  for performing 
innovative work , to provide a full -lifecycle support system that encourages continuous growth in 
this area.   
2.2 Education and Workforce Development  
Suggested Policy Action:  Establish a federal AI -specific workforce training program similar to 
the National Defense Education Act of 1958, develop robust continuing education programs for 
government and private sector employees, and create public -private partnerships to offer fre e 
educational resources on AI.  
Policy Areas:  AI education initiatives, federal workforce upskilling, industry collaboration, and 
community outreach programs.  

NITRD NCO OSTP   
Artificial Intelligence Action Plan RFI  
March  15, 202 5                                                3 
 
Intended Outcome:  Ensure the U.S. maintains its leadership in AI talent, bridge the hiring gap, 
enhance workforce productivity, and prevent the U.S. from falling behind competing nations.  
Intellectual capital is the foundation of any knowledge -based industry. Unfortunately, the United 
States’  lead in AI talent has eroded. A study done by MacroPolo (associated with the Paulson 
Institute, a non -profit organization focused on U .S.-China relations)  on global AI talent  sampled 
papers from the Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems  (NeurIPS ) 2022 and 
collected information on the authors’ country of origin, where they studied, and where they 
currently work. The y found that between 2019 and 2022 t he most elite global  AI talent from the 
U.S. had slipped from 35% of the total to 28%, barely ahead of China’s 26%.  At the rate of 
growth China exhibited in 3 years, another study would likely show their share to have surpassed 
that of the U .S.  
To build and maintain our  nation’s  lead in global AI talent , we must create a federal AI -specific  
workforce training program , similar to the National Defense Education Act of 1958 . In addition,  
a robust continuing education program for all other government and private industry employees  
would enable workers to better understand and use AI to augment their productivity and job 
outcomes.  Studies show  that up to 70% of workers lack the AI skills needed to fully use AI tools  
to the best of their capability. With  the growing adoption of AI , without this workforce training 
program, employers would need to spend resources  to upskill both new hires and legacy 
employees – resources they may not opt to spend, which would overall decrease our workforce’s 
dominance in the global landscape.   
This staggering figure reveals  an unparalleled  opportunity  to unleash a new wave of productivity 
and prosperity if we fully embrace  AI throughout our entire workforce . The alternative is  if we 
do not upskill our workforce and other nations do, we will be left behind. Finally, for those not in 
the workforce, as part this training program, we suggest forming a public -private partnership 
with academia and leading AI companies to develop free resources and seminars to educate the 
community on practical applicat ions and address common misconceptions about AI.  
2.3 Research and Development  (R&D)  
Suggested Policy Action:  Establish national AI research centers under the NSF, expand funding 
for fundamental and applied AI R&D, and incentivize continued private sector investment 
through expanded R&D tax credits, particularly for small businesses.  
Policy Areas:  AI research funding, public -private partnerships, innovation tax incentives, and 
risk-tolerant RDT&E strategies.  
Intended Outcome:  Stabilize long -term AI R&D funding, buffer against short -term market 
fluctuations, foster cutting -edge AI innovations, and ensure continued U.S. dominance in AI 
advancements.  
The AI arms race is in full force, and  R&D  is the engine driving it. The Human -centered 
Artificial Intelligence Institute at Stan ford University tracks the industry with their AI Index. 
Their 2024 report showed that the U .S. led in multiple measures, such as the number of notable 
models released , however, this is no reason to rest on our laurels; highly innovative industries  
such as the AI industry  are extremely volatile. Any slowdown in R&D could have significant 
consequences in terms of global technical l eadership.  
Private industry’s investments in AI have exceeded  gover nment funding , present ing a risk to the 
nation’s  R&D output stability . Publicly traded f or-profit businesses operate on short -term cycles 

NITRD NCO OSTP   
Artificial Intelligence Action Plan RFI  
March  15, 202 5                                                4 
 
and are beholden to shareholders, mea ning funding could rapidly diminish  if rates of return are 
poor for a few quarters. For instance, experts have argued that the current technology used in 
large language models (LLMs) is fundamentally incapable of higher -level  reasoning and 
planning since  the models  hallucinate and  have no understanding of the world ; if consumers 
become disillusioned with the se LLMs and agents made with them, revenue, and in turn R&D 
funding, would dry up.   
The government on the other hand has  different goals and incentives and could act as a buffer to 
large oscillations  in R&D funding and efforts. There are a few things the government could do to 
act as this buffer and continue to spur growth from R&D : 
• The U .S. should first  establish national AI research centers under the National Science 
Foundation  (NSF) to drive collaboration between academia, industry, and government .  
• The U .S. should greatly e xpand funding for fundamental and applied AI R&D , as well as 
enabling technologies .  
• The U .S. should i ncentivize continued private sector investment in AI innovation through 
expanded R&D tax credits , especially for small businesses .  
Innovation  is inherently risky;  it is the act of doing something that has not been done before . 
Silicon Valley as a collective has a  high-risk tolerance, as companies are formed and dissolved 
daily in pursuit of the next billion -dollar  business . The government has a loftier pursuit to 
steward taxpayer funds.  We do not suggest that the government  take the stance of Silicon Valley 
and bet everything on a single endeavor, however, wi thout risk, there cannot be reward .  
Instead, we suggest  the organizations managing Research , Development , Testing & Evaluation 
(RDT&E ) funds endeavor to develop a risk tolerant culture that acknowledges failure is an 
option to drive  our collective understanding , enable revolutionary innovation,  and improve our 
nation. By doing  so, the U .S. will realize a greater return on investment from pursuing such 
innovation s, offering  higher rewards compared to less risky incremental innovations.  
2.4 Risks, Regulations, Explainability and Assurance of AI Model Outputs  
Suggested Policy Action:  Use NIST’s AI Risk Management Framework as a base to develop 
automated tools and systems for AI model test and evaluation, explainability, and regulatory 
compliance. Establish a consortium with IEEE or ISO to develop AI industry -wide standards.  
Policy Areas:  AI model assurance, open -source compliance tools, risk -based regulatory 
framework, and industry standardization.  
Intended Outcome:  Reduce compliance burdens while ensuring AI reliability and transparency, 
prevent the emergence of “shadow AI,” and foster responsible AI adoption within government 
and industry.  
Reducing regulatory burden has been shown to enable innovation, such as when the Federal 
Communications Commission ( FCC ) designated the 2.4GHz band for unlicensed use  and Wi-Fi 
and Bluetooth  expanded . However, there is a tradeoff  between  regulation and reliability, 
especially when there is a risk of  harm to humans.  
We suggest a solution where , using NIST’s AI Risk Management Framework as a base, the 
government i nvest s in automated tools  and systems for  test and evaluation of model outputs and 
explainability to reduce  the burden of  compliance , while enabling reliable AI systems . These 
tools should be open -source and available to model developers and integrators to run on their 

NITRD NCO OSTP   
Artificial Intelligence Action Plan RFI  
March  15, 202 5                                                5 
 
own as needed to comply with any industry -specific regulations. Ardent has been developing 
such a collection of tools for the past 18 months.  
Furthermore, we suggest creating a consortium with the Institute of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineers ( IEEE ) or the International  Organization for Standardization ( ISO) to develop 
industry -wide standards for products and services that leverage AI to improve consumer 
confidence. Rather than ban ning AI’s use  among end users , we recommend the government  lead 
AI technology adoption across its ranks , enabled by contractors who are leaders  in AI 
technologies  like Ardent.   
For example, consider an AI used in emergency response that incorrectly predicts a catastrophic 
event, leading to unnecessary evacuations or delayed critical aid. To address this, technical 
standards for prediction accuracy are not enough  – we need  clear accountability structures  to 
define who is respons ible when an AI miscalculation leads to public panic or resource 
misallocation . We suggest establishing governance that clarifies liability, ensures transparency  in 
algorithm training, and builds public trust through thorough and independent audits. This 
requires collaboration with emergency management professionals, AI developers , and ethicists to 
develop comprehensive policies that align with both national and international best practices, 
ensuring the responsible enhancement o f public wellbein g.  
We urge the government to recognize its users are adopting AI  whether permitted by their 
respective agencies or not.  By being at the forefront of adoption, the government can observe  to 
learn the risks , then work to mitigate them . Without being aware of these risks , agencies will 
suffer from invisible adoption or “shadow AI”  where the risks are unknown because they cannot 
be observed.  
2.5 National Security and Defense Applications  
Suggested Policy Action:  Adopt an AI -first strategy for government IT infrastructure, 
modernize acquisition processes to enable faster AI adoption, expand SBIR funding, and 
increase follow -on funding opportunities for small businesses developing AI capabilities.  
Policy Areas:  AI-driven IT modernization, defense acquisitions reform, federal AI adoption 
incentives, and national security R&D investments.  
Intended Outcome:  Enhance national security through AI -driven operational efficiency, foster 
defense innovation, and stimulate economic growth by leveraging small business contributions to 
AI advancements.  
The government’s information technolo gy (IT) strategy and infrastructure has fallen well behind 
privat e industry  because  critical legacy systems are built on outdated frameworks . However, this 
presents an opportunity: the government can leapfrog private industry and our peer adversaries 
by taking an AI -first approach to our nation’s IT strategy. While t here are clear risks , contractors 
take the brunt of the risk by investing in their own R&D to then present finished , well-researched 
AI products and technologies to the government.  By putting AI front and center it will require 
agencies to adapt policies and tech nologies  to rapidly adopt and field AI systems .  
Part of that policy change will require lowering the barrier to entry of non -traditional contractors , 
enabling  faster adoption and integration of new and innovative technologies. For example, m any 
Microsoft licenses already include access to generative AI through Microsoft CoPilot, meaning  
that by not  adopting its use the  government loses money on each employee ’s individual 
Microsoft license . By extension , putting AI in the hands of every government employee will spur 

NITRD NCO OSTP   
Artificial Intelligence Action Plan RFI  
March  15, 202 5                                                6 
 
productivity , further innovation as users discover  new ways to use AI , and create  use-cases that 
will requir e further R&D . This process invigorates  the technology innovation  cycle  and further 
reinforc es the U.S. as an AI technology powerhouse .  
Furthermore, the government should expand the SBIR  program . In addition, the government 
should also e xpand follow -on funding opportunities such as the Strategic Funding Increase 
(STRATFI) and Tactical Funding Increase (TACFI) Programs , allow ing small businesses  to 
flourish while meeting government  needs . For example, as previously  mentioned , wide adoption 
of AI  will bolster innovation  and create new opportunities as users develop  new use -cases  
requir ing further R&D . The DoD SBIR National Economic Impacts , 1995 – 2018 report  shares 
that over this period, the DoD, which funded approximately 50% of all SBI Rs during that time, 
saw a return on investment of $22 for every $1 spent , with a total economic impact of $347B . 
Expanding the SBIR program would clearly create a win -win scenario where the nation’s AI 
capabilities are advanced while simultaneously improving the economy.  
2.6 Innovation, Collaboration , and Competition  
Suggested Policy Action:  Establish a public -private AI supercomputing center to provide small 
businesses and research institutions with access to high -performance compute r resources for AI 
training and experimentation.  
Policy Areas:  AI infrastructure investment, government -industry -academia collaboration, and 
democratized access to AI resources.  
Intended Outcome:  Level the playing field for AI innovation, enable groundbreaking research 
beyond large corporate entities, and strengthen U.S. global competitiveness in AI development.  
A significant limitation of small businesses and research institutions is that they do not have 
access to the sheer amount of comput ing power  or capital  that leading AI firms pos sess. To level 
the playing field , the government shou ld establish a public -private AI supercomputing center, 
broaden ing access for companies and researchers that do not have the adequate  funds to conduct  
the R&D required to advance in AI.   
This initiative will allow stakeholders  to pool together their resources to utilize  and operate the 
center . The center will allow  organization to : 
• Schedule compute  to run major experiments and model training  they would otherwise be 
incapable of doing . 
• Share their research  amongst partners . 
• Further improve U.S. competitive advantage globally .  
An example of this is the NSF NAIRR Pilot that is being performed from January 24, 2024  to 
January 24, 2026.  
We provide  two recommendations that will improve innovation, collaboration , and competition : 
Community  Engageme nt Programs : To improve  transparency and public trust in AI , we also 
propose community engagement programs integrat e with the supercomputing center’s 
operations . These programs would  inform  the public of the development process by providing 
educational workshops designed to enhance AI literacy. By doing this the government can help 
democrat ize AI technolog ies and open  new opportunities for collaborative innovation.  

NITRD NCO OSTP   
Artificial Intelligence Action Plan RFI  
March  15, 202 5                                                7 
 
Contracting A greements : The gove rnment should also consider altering  their procurement 
strategies to align with these goals. The government should prioritize more streamlined  
contract ing agreemen ts for these small businesses , such as Commercial Solutions Opening s 
(CSO s) and Other Transaction Authorities  (OTA s). By doing so, the government would allow 
smaller, innovative companies to compete and collaborate on specific AI components, driving 
innovation and diversifying the market.   
 
 

