Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP)  & 
Networking and Information Technology Research and 
Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO)  
Request for Information on the Development of 
an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Recommendations for the White House AI Action Plan 
White Paper  
Offeror  
Applied Research Institute , Inc.  (ARI)  
2719 E. 10th Street, Room 114, Bloomington, IN 47408  
NACIS  CAGE UEI Website  
541715  81LB8  PHLNLR2KFJQ5  www.theari.us  
Submission Date:  
March 14, 2025 
Technical Point of Contact  Business Point of Contact 
Dr. William Kiser 
EVP, S cience, a nd Technology 
Applied Research  Institute (ARI) Leslie Wo lfe 
EVP,  Finance, an d Operations - CF O 
Applied Research  Institute (ARI) 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.

Page 1 of 4 
I. SUMMARY  
The rapid advancement of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) presents 
significant opportunities and challenges for  the U.S. national security agencies. One of the greatest 
challenges is keeping pace with the rapid evolution and advancements in AI, ML,  digital, and data 
solutions space.  Traditional government procurement practices are slow,  complex, and often 
inaccessible to non -traditional technology providers. As a result, government agencies are often 
unable to tap into c utting -edge AI/ML capabilities with speed and efficiency. Moreover, as new 
and novel applications are identified, lengthy procurement processes and limited feedback loops 
hinder timely and effective engagement with potential  non-traditional technology providers —
further reducing the DOD’s potential for rapidly adopting cutting -edge technologies . Without a 
modernized procurement framework for emerging technologies , the U.S. risks lagging adversaries 
in AI/ML adoption, putting national security and warfighters at risk. 
The Applied Research Institute, Inc (ARI) is pleased to submi t a white paper to the Office of 
Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) and Networking and Information Technology Research 
and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO) with recommend ed actions for 
the development of the White House AI Action Plan. This white paper focuses on  actions to 
accelerate government acquisition of cutting -edge  AI/ML innovations  based on proven application 
of novel techniques employed by the Department of Defense  (DOD) Chief Digital and Artificial 
Intelligence Office’s  (CDAO) Tradewinds Solutions Marketplace (TSM) program. For the past 
three years, ARI has served as the Solutions Marketplace Manager  supporting CDAO in the 
development and prototyping of  the TSM model  for emerging AI, ML, digital and data capabilities . 
The TSM model has been proven to be a success , dramatically reducing procurement lead time , 
streamlining procurement processes to eliminate barriers to entry, and expanding DOD’s access to 
the best solutions from academia and industry. Building off the success of the Tradewinds 
Solutions Marketplac e, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) and US Air 
Force  Platform One Office have imple mented this  acquisition model to serve their mission 
requirements. Broader adoption of the TSM model would revolutionize  defense and government 
procurement by streamlin ing AI/ML acquisition, expanding the AI industrial base, and 
accelerat ing innovation adoption across DOD and  Federal agencies.  
II. ABOUT THE TRADEWINDS SOLUTIONS MARKETPLACE  
The CDAO TSM is  a novel acquisition model for the  rapid identification, assessment, adoption, 
and integration of emerging AI, ML, digital and data capabilities. TSM provides a digital 
environment of post -competition, readily awardable, technology solution pitch videos  (short, 
5 min) for viewing by government agencies. The introduction of TSM has transformed this landscape by establishing a streamlined assessment process for  solutions, allowing for the rapid 
assessment, transparent feedback, and accelerated procurement of AI/ML, digital, and  data 
solutions. Vendor- submitted video submissions, collected monthly, undergo a rigorous 

Page 2 of 4 
competitive assessment process designed to align with multiple federal competition standards, 
statutes, regulations, and policies.  By capturing post -competitive solutions in a user -friendly 
digital repository, the CDAO and its customer organizations  gain access to new and novel 
solutions, validated for their technical merit, relevance, and impact, and prepositioned  for rapid 
procurement. To learn more about TSM, visit www.tradewindai.com . 
TSM  key features and benefits to the DOD and Federal agencies includ e: 
•Accelerating  Acquisition Velocity  – TSM is delivering a  novel agile  contracting pathway
that streamlines acquisition by  eliminating redundant steps and enabling real‑time
government–industry collaboration.  With an integrated feedback  loop, procurement
timelines are  dramatically shortened —evidenced by an average P rocurement
Administrative Lead Time (PALT)  of 56 days and select procurements  completed in as
few as 8 and 11 days—ensuring the warfighter  receives timely, mission‑critical
capabilities.
•TSM Software Acquisition Pathway  – The TSM process leverages Commercial
Solutions Opening (CSO)  Authorities, Other Transaction Authorities  (OTA) , and Federal
Acquisition Regulation  (FAR)  authorities concurrently to maximize flexibility and allow
for all congressionally issued authorities to be employed simultaneously. All Adaptive
Acquisition Pathways are available, including the Software Acquisition Pathway. The CSO
to OTA to Software Acquisition Pathway has been an integrated approach since theinception of the TSM in November 2022.
•Streamlined  Procurement Process –
TSM leverages existing  acquisition
authorities to their  fullest, obviating the
need for  new regulations or authorities.
By fully aligning with FAR,  DFARS, and
DoD CSO and OTA standards, the TSM
minimizes administrative  overhead,
enabling both government and industry to
concentrate on accelerating  innovative
AI/ML, digital, and  data solutions that
close critical  mission gaps.  This process
eliminates unnecessary and potential ly
duplicative bureaucratic processes,accelerating the contracting process by
250%.  Figure 1.0 outlines the TSM
procurement process.
 Figure 1.0 TSM Streamlined  Procurement Process  

Page 3 of 4 
•Broad Access to  Critical Technologies  – The TSM  serves as a dynamic, centralized hub
that continuously showcases  state‑of‑the‑art technologies  tailored for defense applications.
With an ever‑evolving catalog of  next‑generation capabilities, defense stakeholders from
47 government organizations gain real‑time access to breakthrough  innovations—
empowering rapid  adoption of critical solutions. New capabilities are added to the available
pool of cutting-edge AI/ML, Digital, and Data solutions on a monthly basis.
III. POLICY ACTIONS  
ARI presents the following policy recommendations for consideration. 
1. Establish a Government -wide Solutions  Marketplace for AI/ML : 
oBuild on the success of the TSM and expand to create a centralized, continuously
updated repository of pre -vetted , post -competition,  AI/ML, digital and data solutions
for rapid procurement across all Federal Agencies .
oModel this Marketplace after the TSM  utiliz ing the following features:
1.A searchable repository of cutting -edge AI/ML capabilities for Federal
government agencies.
2. Vendor -friendly submission processes, such as short -form video pitches  and
rolling admissions , to lower barriers for entry.
3.Provide transparent and structured feedback loops to help vendors refine
solutions and better meet government needs.
4.Conduct continuous outreach to e ncourage participation from both small
businesses, startups, and non- traditional contractors , as well as with DOD and
Federal government agencies.
5.Conduct weekly office hours and education sessions with industry andgovernment stakeholders.
6.Develop standardized workflows, acquisition templates, and decision supporttools to facilitate rapid adoption  and acquisition.
7.Establish a dedicated helpdesk for AI/ML procurement, technical validation,and regulatory compliance support.
2. Endorse the  Solutions Marketplace for AI/ML as a Software Acquisition Pathway:  
oIssue a Memorandum endorsing the Solutions Marketplace  model for AI/ML as a
viable acquisition model that supports the DOD and Federal Government Software
Acquisition Pathways . This memo would provide support needed to acquisition
organizations that are looking for approval to use the Marketplace Model instead oftraditional acquisition authorities.
3. Ensure Long Term Sustainability of the Solutions Marketplace for AI/ML : 

Page 4 of 4 
oEstablish an  AI Task Force to oversee implementation of the Government -Wide
Solutions Marketplace.
oProvide funding to support  implementation of the Government- Wide Solutions
Marketplace, as well as provide for continuous execution and maintenance.
IV. EXPECTED IMPACT 
By adopting a Government -Wide Solutions Marketplace model, the DOD and U.S. government 
will: 
•Significantly r educe AI/ML procurement timelines from month s to weeks.
•Expand DOD and Federal Government access to cutting -edge AI/ML solutions.
•Strengthen national security by rapidly equipping agencies with mission -critical
capabilities.
•Enhance collaboration between government, industry, and academia.
V. CONCLUSION  
The White House AI Action Plan must prioritize agile AI/ML procurement mechanisms to 
maintain technological leadership. By leveraging the proven success of the TSM  model , the 
proposed Government- Wide Solutions Marketplace will drive efficiency, foster innovation, and 
ensure the government remains at the forefront of AI/ML adoption.  
Applied Research Institute, Inc.  
Applied Research Institute, Inc. (ARI) is an Indiana -based , 501(c)(3) nonprofit leader in 
technology innovation and strategy. As a neutral, third -party innovation ecosystem orchestrator, 
ARI collaborates with cross -sectional partners from state and federal government, industry, and 
academia across a wide spectrum o f technology focus areas.  What sets ARI apart is our expert -
informed, practitioner -driven approach to innovation—an approach proven through pioneering 
prototypes like Tradewinds and DARPAConnect. Combining deep subject matter expertise in areas such as acquisition with state- of-the- art technologies enables us to execute tangible pathways 
that empower innovators to secure awards and fill mission gaps for the warfighter. In doing so, ARI transforms innovative ideas into operational capabilities that have a direct and lasting impact 
on both national defense and economic prosperity.  Learn more at  www.theari.us . 

