1 March 14, 2025  ARM Institute  
4501 Lytle Street  
Mill 19A, Suite 200  
Pittsburgh, PA 15207 -1892  
ATTN: Faisal D'Souza  
Email:  ostp-ai-rfi@nitrd.gov  
National Coordination Office (NCO)  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue,  
Alexandria, VA 22314, USA.  
Telephone: 202 -459-9674.  
References:   
Document Citation: 90 FR 9088  
Document Number 2025-02305  
Subject: AI Action Plan 
The following is in response to the Reques t for Information on the Developme nt of an 
Artificial Intelligence (A I) Action Plan issued on February 2, 2 025, as directed by the 
Presidential Executiv e Order (Executive Orde r 14179) issued on January 23, 2025.  
The ARM (Advanced Robotics for Manufacturing ) Institute is a Manufactu ring USA® Institute 
sponsored by the Office of the Secretary of Defense under Agree ment Number W911NF -
17-3-0004 . The ARM Institute leverages a unique, robust, a nd respected consortiu m of 
members and partners across industr y, academia and governme nt to make robotics, 
autonomy and artifici al intelligence more accessible t o U.S. manufacturers large and 
small, train and empower the manufacturing workforce , strengthen our economy and 
global competitiveness, and elevate national security and resilience. Based in Pittsburgh, 
PA since 2017, the ARM Institute is leading the way to a future where people & robots work 
together to respond to our nation’s greates t challenges and to produce the world's most 
desired products. For more information, visit www.arminstitute.org and follow the ARM 
Institute on LinkedIn and X.
For more information on the following AI ACTION PLAN, please contact: 
Dr. Chuck Brandt, and  
Lisa Masciantonio.  
This document is approved for pub lic dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential informatio n. Document contents may be reused 
by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution. 

2 
 Executive Summary  
The AI Action Plan outlined by the Advanced Robotics for Manufacturing (ARM) Institute 
emphasizes the critical role of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in changing  U.S. manufacturing, 
and in the context of national security, economic growth, and workforce development  its 
role is amplified . As a Manufacturing USA Institute sponsored by the U.S. Department of 
Defense (DoD), the ARM Institute aims to enhance American manufacturing by leveraging 
AI, robotics, and automation to improve productivity, competitiveness,  and defense 
readiness.  
The adoption of AI  in manufacturing  can accelerate  reshoring efforts and  modernize 
manufacturing processes. The manufacturing sector represents a significant driver of 
economic growth and national security, making AI adoption and creating a future -proof 
workforce a strategic imperative . Key highlights of the AI Action Plan include:  
1. National Competitiveness and Economic Growth:  
• Develop a cohesive AI technology roadmap and implementation  pipeline for 
manufacturing.  
• Strengthen the Manufacturing USA Institutes to provide long -term sustainable 
operations, focusing on data repositories and creating new AI testing facilities.  
2. National Security and AI in the Defense Manufacturing Base:  
• Investing in a National AI Integration  Plan will establish a top -down strategy for AI 
adoption across the Organic Industrial Base (OIB) and supply chains.  
• Investing in AI -driven material discovery, testing, and innovative manufacturing will 
give the U.S. a competitive edge in global innovation while reducing reliance on 
foreign supply chains.  
• Enhance the defense industrial base by modernizing high -mix, low-volume (HMLV) 
manufacturing processes through AI and robotic technologies.  
3. Data Protection and Export Restrictions:  
• Maintain global dominance by establishing  frameworks to protect critical data, 
intellectual property, and AI models developed with government investments . 
• Develop policies for safeguarding sensitive technologies by enhancing export 
controls. 
4. Economic Displacement and Workforce Reskilling:  
• Equip displaced workers with AI, robotics, and digital manufacturing skills through 
targeted workforce development programs.  
• Incentivizing reshoring efforts and investing in modern manufacturing infrastructure.  
The action plan outlines policies and investments to ensure U.S. leadership in AI -driven 
manufacturing, sustain Manufacturing USA Institutes, and integrate AI and robotics into the 
factory floor, while developing a resilient workforce to address emerging technology 
challenges and maintain competitiveness, national security, and technological leadership.  
 
 

3 
 AI Action Plan:  
1. Background  
The Advanced Robotics for Manufacturing Institute (ARM Institute)  is the premier national 
Manufacturing Innovation Institute (MII), and public -private partnership, created by the 
Department of Defense (DoD) to advance robotics and artificial intelligence ( AI) in 
manufacturing, and is uniquely positioned to drive pre -competitive innovation, 
competitiveness, and strengthen national security. As the largest consortium of robotics 
and AI experts, the ARM Institute  unites the defense industrial base (DIB), the organic 
industrial base (OIB), industry, academia, federally funde d research and development 
centers (FFRDC), the start -up community, and government partners to solve complex 
manufacturing challenges beyond the capabilities of any single entity. With deep 
experience in defense -sector modernization, access to cutting -edge robotics facilities, and 
a strong network of innovators, the ARM Institute accelerates the adoption of advanced 
technologies (e.g., AI) through collaboration, knowledge sharing, and strategic influence. 
Its role as a neutral hub for national robotics inno vation and manufacturing ensures 
impactful solutions that strengthen U.S. manufacturing resilience and defense readiness.  
The following is  represen tative of the expert opinion of the ARM Institute Consortium.    
2. Purpose  
The purpose is to  convey the expert opinion surmised from eight years of insights generated 
from managing the ARM Institute , focused on advancing robotics and AI to improve the way 
the U.S. manufactures everything from automobiles and war fighters  to blue jeans and the 
American Flag.   In addition, t his letter also provides direction  on future education and 
workforce development needs , concerning AI and manufacturing, to build the greatest 
workforce in the world.  
3. AI Action Plan  
This action plan focuses on manufacturing, automation, robotics, and the critical role of 
artificial intelligence (AI). Ensuring the United States not only leads in AI research and 
development (R&D) but also excels in its implementation on the manufacturin g floor is 
essential to national security.  
AI is becoming increasingly sophisticated, widespread, and valuable. Today, its most 
effective applications are in data -rich environments such as the internet and enterprise 
resource planning (ERP) systems. However, AI adoption is limited i n manufacturing often 
because of the lack of quality data records or no data. This is particularly true in high-mix, 
low-volume businesses (job shops)  manufacturing .  

4 
 Small and medium enterprises (S MEs) represent over 95% of manufacturing companies , 
75% of which have fewer than 20 employees, contribute more than 40% of total 
manufacturing output , and employ approximately 45% of the sector’s workforce. No other 
industry has a greater impact on economic growth, national security, and defense 
capabilities than manufacturing, and AI is essential to capitalize on the opportunity to 
reshoring efforts and maintain global competitiveness  in AI. 
A key objective of the AI Action Plan is to explore how AI can  modernize defense 
manufacturing, drive reshoring efforts, build a highly skilled workforce, enhance 
competitiveness across all domains, and strengthen national security.    The action plan is 
segmented into four critical thrusts to achieve those objectives.  The four thrust areas are 
as follows:  
1. National Competitiveness and Economic Growth  
2. National Security and AI for the Defens e Manufacturing Base  
3. Data Protection and Export Restriction  
4. Economic Displacement and Workforce Readiness  
 
Finally, each AI action policy discussion will  convey the relative urgency (Timeline) as 
follows:  
A. Immediate = Time sensitive, urgent, < 1 year  
B. Scheduled = Planned, necessary, may have prerequisites < 3 years  
C. Flexible = Dependent upon outcomes of scheduled  actions > 3 years  
3.1. National Competitiveness and Economic Growth  
The manufacturing sector represents the greatest opportunity for economic growth, but 
this potential is at risk without the effective implementation and ongoing advancement of 
AI.  AI is imperative to reshor ing American manufacturing , but without a cohesive and 
prioritized  strategy with aligned policies, the adoption  of advanced manufacturing 
technologies  will remain relatively stagnant .  
3.1.1.  Objective :  
The objective of the following policy actions is to guide the development of an AI strategy 
for advanced  manufacturing  to enable flexible and adaptable  robotic capabilities,  
manufacturing process optimization, simulation, model-based system engineering, digital 
twins, and other advanced methodologies.   
3.1.2.  Scope:  
The scope includes developing a key AI manufacturing strategy , identifying  tactical actions 
to provide real-world solutions that will modernize American manufacturers.   The intent is 

5 
 that a roadmap is constructed, but also there are means for implementation and 
commitment for integration into operations.      
3.1.3.  Key Policy Actions (Timeline ): 
3.1.3.1.  Competitiveness  – AI Research and Implementation :  
• Manufacturing Project  (Immediate):   Invest in developing a cohesive  AI technology 
development roadmap and implementation  plan, with key partner s, companies , and 
universities  working collaboratively on the common goal of enhancing American 
manufacturing.   I.E., Manhattan Project fo r AI Manufacturing . Example:  Leverage the 
Manufacturing USA Institutes, such as the ARM Institute, to centralize and focus the AI 
development effort s and manage and control the collaborative intellectual property 
created for rapid adoption at U.S.  manufacturers . 
3.1.3.2.  Economic Growth – American  AI Industry   
The perceived benefits of AI may not mitigate the risks.  These policies attempt to create 
market incentives to push adoption and risk mitigating strategies to create a technology 
pull.    
• AI Manufacturing Service Providers  (Scheduled):  Leverage results from Section 
3.1.3.1 and implement solutions across American Manufacturers at scale by providing 
attractive licensing agreements to new companies (e.g., automation and robot 
integrators) contingent upon successful implementation of capabilities.    
• AI Risk Mitigation (Immediate  to Scheduled ): Invest in or create de-risking and 
integration service business to evaluate and test AI capabilities to mitigate 
implementation risks for manufactur ers of all sizes .   
Example: Public-Private Partnerships like the ARM Institute can provide impartial 
evaluations and assessment of new AI capabilities to mitigate integration or adoption 
risk.  
• Incentivize manufacturers to implement technological  advancements  (Flexible) :  
Subsidize the implementation over time , provide attractive financing options,  or provide 
significant tax breaks  to eliminate the financial risks.   
3.1.3.3.  Public Private Partnerships  – Manufacturing USA Institutes  - Long Term 
Investment  for sustained operations of the Manufacturing USA Institutes.   
• Leverage and Invest in the existing Manufacturing USA Public Private Partnerships  
(Immediate) : These membership -driven organizations catalyze collaboration between 
partners across a variety of industries, academia , and government . The Manufacturing 
USA Institutes are developing  advanced manufacturing technologies and  driving 
adoption of dual-use capabilities . They are d eveloping the workforce of the future and  
working with small and medium -sized manufacturers  to help improve quality, 

6 
 productivity, and revenue.  However, th e Institutes have limited funding to sustain and 
accelerate significant technological  development and scale workforce services and 
capabilities to broader audiences.      
• Trusted Data for AI Repository for Manufacturing  (Immediate to Schedule) : Leverage 
and invest in the Manufacturing USA Institutes to develop trusted manufacturing 
datasets and provide robotic training and testing services  to American Manufacturers .  
Leverage the public -private partners as honest brokers to develop , test and securely 
exchange large-scale datasets , and advanced learning AI models ( e.g., Generative AI, 
Vision Language Action  Models) strictly for use by American manufacturers.     
• AI and Robotic Test Facility  (Immediate to Scheduled) : Leverage and invest in the 
ARM Institute to develop  AI and robotic training  and testing services. Create testing 
facilities and resources  to conduct advanced AI and robotic research and development 
in a real-world manufacturing environment.   Presently , most AI is being tested in a lab 
environment in non -manufacturing use cases.  Testing environment will focus on testing 
the following AI capabilities :  
- human-robot interaction  & teaming (i.e., social robotics)  and  
- safety, multi-robot and human collaboration , and  
- robotic-human learning.   
AI test facility will evaluate different robot designs and configurations such as : 
humanoids , quadrupeds, mobile manipulators, autonomous mobile robots, drones, 
and industrial robotics.  Finally, the proposed test facility would  explore and test 
heterogeneous robot  collaboration  and reconfigurable robotics.  
3.2. National Security and AI for Defense Manufacturing Base  
The DoD boasts the most advanced and powerful military in the world. However, a 
significant portion of defense spending is directed toward the sustainment and 
maintenance of legacy systems. The defense industrial base (DIB) and organic industrial 
base (OIB ) continue to design, develop, and test critical systems using manufacturing 
methods from decades ago. These sectors are often resistant to change, risk-averse, and 
lack incentives to modernize their manufacturing processes, resulting in slow adoption of 
AI capabilities  and advanced manufacturing technologies.  
3.2.1.  Objective :  
The objective is to enhance national security by leveraging AI capabilities to reduce costs, 
lead times, and improve productivity in DIB/OIB maintenance, repair, and overhaul 
operations. Additionally, the plan includes recommendations for policy changes to dr ive 
the development and implementation of new technologies and modernize industry 
methods and strategies . 

7 
 3.2.2.  Scope:  
Unlike the auto industry, which is heavily automated high -volume and low -mix (HVLM) 
manufacturing, the DIB/OIB is high -mix and low -volume (HMLV) manufacturing operations.  
The latter is extremely difficult to automate and generate a return on investment due to the 
lack of flexibility and adaptability that are typical of robotics and automation  systems.  
However, advancements in AI have demonstrated the potential of being able to begin to 
develop flexible and adaptable systems to address these specific manuf acturing 
challenges. The  following actions provide key methods to support the modernization of the 
DIB and OIB manufacturing  
3.2.3.  Key Policy Actions (Timeline ): 
3.2.3.1.  AI and Manufacturing  
• Invest in  developing AI and Robotic testing Environment (Immediate to Scheduled) 
with resources and equipment available to accelerate the advancement of the AI 
technologies by leveraging concepts like the Data Repository for Manufacturing 
(Section 
 ) to develop an AI that permits robotics to use data and sensors to provide 
real-time adaptive behaviors similar to a human based on process expertise and 
awareness of the conditions.  Data is required.  
• Invest in the development of  Physically Realistic Intelligent Simulations  and 
Models (PRISM) (Immediate to Scheduled) are essential for advancing AI -driven 
robotic manufacturing by providing synthetic data for faster, more data -efficient 
learning, especially when experimental data is limited. PRMS must also account for 
uncertainty quantification in robot systems to improv e performance evaluation, 
optimization, and the integration of AI with model -based control. The goal is to develop 
self-tunable PRMS that can continually refine its accuracy and learn new tasks or 
processes in real -time, enabling rapid adaptation to different manufacturing scenarios. 
Invest in creating AI-powered tools that automatically generate test cases for robot 
learning, testing, and characterization in manufacturing environments . These tools 
will cover safety standards, risk assessments, and quality metrics, improving efficiency 
in robot deployment and monitoring. Ultimately, they could identify correlations 
between robot parameters an d product quality, with formal guarantees for the test 
cases.  
• Invest in the development of  AI Assistants for Manufacturing Operations Design 
and Configuration (Scheduled) that simplifies  and optimizes  the deployment of 
robotic automation in manufacturing through AI. By focusing on autonomous robot task 
programming, work -cell layout design, and facility -level automation, these systems will 
enable new users to integrate robots into production without req uiring deep technical 
expertise. The AI capabilities will enhance manufacturing efficiency, reduce errors, and 

8 
 foster greater trust between human operators and robots, resulting in smoother and 
more reliable automation across the facility. This investment will have a profound 
impact on both existing manufacturing operations and greenfield sites, driving 
modernizati on and operational excellence.  
• Invest in developing  AI technology that can understand  the state of a 
manufacturing process  (Flexible) based on sensory inputs and historical data, to 
anticipate  what manufacturing steps or processes  are needed, and take an action  – AI 
Situational Awareness.   Over time , the AI would learn and provide suggestions for 
improving the quality of the manufacturing process.   These capabilities are feasible with 
investment in a National Data Repository for Manufacturing (Section 
 ).  Data is 
required.    
3.2.3.2.  National Security  
• Invest in and create a National AI and Digital Integration  Plan (Immediate) : 
Developing AI technologies and solutions  will address part of the problem.  Invest in 
developing a strategic “top down” AI and digital manufacturing change strategy for 
implementation within the  OIB and create requirements for DIB and supply chain s.  A 
“top down” strategy is critical to the implementation  of new technologies , but also the 
rate of adoption.    
• Material discovery and testing capabilities (Immediate): Invest into developing new 
AI-capabilities for material discovery, examination, and testing.  Invest in novel 
manufacturing methods to create said materials. What technologies might be critical to 
developing these capabilities, how might the results differentiate the U.S. from global 
competiti on, how might it address limited access to rare earth materials?  
• Investment into developing  new AI-enabled digital capabilities for design ing and 
manufacturing  warfighters  (Immediate  to Scheduled ): R&D, implementation and 
testing of AI capabilities to fundamentally  change the design process es to create new 
innovative solutions faster, cheaper and safer.  
3.3. Data Protection  and Export Restriction:  
3.3.1.  Objective : 
Data will be extremely valuable for the development of AI solutions in manufacturing.  The 
objective of any policy would be to scale the development of critical datasets and models , 
which can be easily adopted and scaled while providing intellectual property (IP) and data 
protection. Critical to the developing and sustaining a competitive position in 
manufacturing technologies and AI, control of intellectual property developed with 
government investment should remain  in the U.S.  for the benefit of American Companies.  
Export controls on A I and other advanced technologies should be a consideration moving 
forward.  

9 
 3.3.2.  Scope:  
The scope of the policy  is to develop methodologies for p rotecting intellectual property (IP) 
and data, maintaining U.S. control over government -invested IP to benefit American 
companies, and considering export controls on AI and advanced technologies to safeguard 
national interests.  
3.3.3.  Key Policy Actions (Timeline ) 
3.3.3.1.  Data Protection  
• Invest and leverage the ARM Institute and the proposed Data Repository for 
Manufacturing to create a framework for creating, sharing and protecting critical da ta 
amongst U.S. manufacturers  (Immediate – Scheduled) .   
• Promotion and incentives to use public-private partnerships for development and 
scaling (Scheduled) of new advanced  manufacturing capabilities leveraging AI.  
• Invest and l everage the ARM Institute to develop  policies and processes for creating fair 
licensing agreement s to share government -funded IP (Flexible)  while maintaining 
strict policies to protect IP and sensitive information.   
3.3.3.2.  Export Control and Restrictions  
• Develop a new policy that identifies AI and advanced technologies that might be 
vital to national security  (Immediate) : Strengthening  export control regulations on AI 
and advanced manufacturing technologies that are vital to national security, and 
ensuring sensitive technologies do not fall into the hands of foreign adversaries . 
• Extend and create exclusive time -based export controls  (Immediate – Schedule)  to 
include, not only finished products , but also underlying  AI models, datasets, and 
intellectual property that may have dual -use applications.   Exclusivity is intended to 
limit the commercial use and/or adoption to U.S. based companies for a period of time 
to be determined based on the technology.   
3.4. Economic Displacement and Workforce Reskilling  
3.4.1.  Objective  
To ensure a resilient and competitive workforce by equipping displaced or workers 
changing careers with relevant skills, while helping manufacturers access and retain 
skilled labor to sustain economic growth.  Keeping the workforce on pace with the 
technology changes is critical to this action plan.  
3.4.2.  Scope:  
These policy actions focus on equipping workers with AI, robotics, and digital 
manufacturing skills while expanding hands -on training programs and industry 
collaborations to address labor gaps. They also support workforce changes through 
relocation incentives, retraining grants, and policies that encourage manufacturers to 

10 
 invest in regions with displaced labor. Additionally, streamlined talent acquisition pathways 
help build a resilient and competitive manufacturing sector.  
The immediacy of addressing the manufacturing workforce and education needs is a vital 
component to enabling broad application and maintenance of AI and its role in advanced 
manufacturing.  As a result, the timeline for putting policy into action is urgent.  
3.4.3.  Key Policy Actions (Timeline)  
3.4.3.1.  Economic Displacement Mitigation – Manufacturer  
• Incentivize Domestic Manufacturing  (Immediate): Tax credits and grants for 
companies ’ reshoring production and incentives for new manufacturing to be built in 
the U.S.  
• Regional Economic Supply Chains (Immediate):  Investment in the entire domestic 
manufacturing supply chain to create additional employment opportunities and 
incentivize supply chain partners within the U.S.  
• Leverage Manufacturing USA Institutes (Immediate to Scheduled) : Ensure 
manufacturers large and small are aware and can utilize extensive advanced 
manufacturing resources, tools, and expertise  
• Infrastructure & Supply Chain Investment  (Scheduled) : Funding to modernize 
facilities and strengthen domestic supply chains.  
• Leverage Manufacturing Extension Partnerships (MEPs)  (Flexible) : Ensure small and 
medium manufacturers are aware and can utilize extensive advanced manufacturing 
resources, tools, and expertise  
 
3.4.3.2.  Economic Displacement Mitigation – Individuals  
• Assistance Progra ms (Immediate to Scheduled): Financial aid, unemployment 
benefits, and job placement services for displaced workers.  
• Small Business & Entrepreneurship Support (Immediate):  Grants and low -interest 
loans to help displaced workers start new businesses.  
 
3.4.3.3.  Workforce Reskilling & Training  
• RoboticsCareer.org  (Immediate ): Expansion of the current robotics focus on 
competencies, career pathways, training, and jobs for  this national resource to include 
all parts of advanced manufacturing.  
• Targeted Workforce Development Gran ts (Immediate):  Federal and state funding for 
community colleges and career & technical education training programs.  
• Expansion of Apprenticeships & On -the-Job Training  (Immediate  to Scheduled ): 
Subsidized programs encouraging businesses to hire and train displaced workers.  

11 
 • Training Partnersh ips (Scheduled ): Collaboration between government, industry, and 
educational institutions to develop skill -focused programs.   (e.g., leaders should be 
trained on AI and digital integration ) 
• Lifelong Learning & Upskilling Tax Incentives  (Scheduled):  Tax credits and incentives 
for workers and employers investing in continuous and reskilling.  
• Focus on Emerging Industries  (Flexible):  Reskilling programs aligned with growing 
sectors like bio, AI, and advanced manufacturing.  
 
4. Recommendations – Priorities vs. Difficulty   
The following recommendations have been selected based on the  anticipated  impact each 
policy action might  have, the urgency (Immediate, Scheduled, Flexible), and  the relative 
difficulty  of implementing the corresponding policy action.  
Priority 1: National AI Technology Roadmap (Section 3.1.3.1) 
Difficulty: Moderate : Requires significant coordination among government, private sector, 
and academia. The complexity of developing a cohesive AI strategy and implementation at 
scale may take several years to fully integrate.    
Priority 2: Public -Private Partnerships and Manufacturing USA Institutes  (Sections 
3.1.3.3 and 3.4.3.1) 
Difficulty: Moderate: Partnerships with the Manufacturing  USA Institutes already exist . 
Establishing s ustained investment and coordination  is necessary to  scale the impact of AI 
research and adoption . 
Priority 3: Workforce Reskilling , Economic Programs  and RoboticsCareer.org  (Section 
3.4.3.3, and 3.4.3.3) 
Difficulty: Moderate: Workforce training initiatives and job placement focused on AI and 
advanced manufacturing competencies are essential, but their success depends on 
government funding, industry engagement, and alignment between educational programs 
and industry needs.   
Priority 5: AI for National Security and Defense Industrial Base  (Section 3.2.3.2) 
Difficulty: High: Modernizing defense manufacturing through AI adoption faces significant 
resistance due to the conservative nature of defense procurement and legacy systems.  The 
creation of a comprehensive AI and Digital Integration  Action Plan , which provides strategy, 
prioritization , and tactical flow down action plans , would provide direction and incentives 
to the OIB leadership to adopt new capabilities  that are critical to securing U.S resiliency 
and national security.  

12 
  
 
Priority 6: Export Control  (Section 3.3.3.2) 
Difficulty : Moderate to High : Policies for controlling AI and critical manufacturing 
technologies developed with government funds should be considered to maintain 
competitive advantage globally  (I.E., exclusivity and limited use) . 
Priority 7: Material discovery and testing capabilities (Section 3.2.3.2) 
Investing in advanced AI -driven material discovery, testing, and novel manufacturing 
methods will revolutionize how we create and examine new materials, offering a 
competitive edge in global innovation. This approach will not only position the U.S. as a 
leader in cutting -edge technology but also help mitigate reliance on foreign countries for  
rare earth materials . 
Priority 8: Data Repository and AI Testing Facilities (Section 3.1.3.3) 
Difficulty: Moderate to High: Invest and scale in e stablishing trusted dataset repositories  
and AI testing environments .  This would require significant funding and leveraging the ARM 
Institute to facilitate large -scale collaboration but would be highly impactful in accelerating 
AI adoption .   
5. Conclusions:  
The development of AI in manufacturing is critical to ensur ing national competitiveness, 
economic growth, and security. A coordinated and well -funded effort is needed to 
overcome the challenges of workforce displacement, technological adoption , national 
security, and global competition . By implementing the recommended actions, particularly 
in AI R&D, public -private collaborations, and workforce development, the U.S. can further 
secure its leadership in advanced manufacturing technologies , and stabilize its industrial 
base. Immediate action is required to build infrastructure and partnerships that support 
this change and to invest in the tools and people needed for AI to become ubiquitous on 
the shop floor.  
The successful integration of AI in manufacturing will not only improve productivity and 
competitiveness but will also enhance the resilienc y and adaptability of the U.S. 
manufacturing sector in the face of global economic shifts and evolving security 
challenges.  
 
For more information on the following AI ACTION PLAN, please contact:  
Dr. Chuck Brandt , and  
Lisa Masciantonio .  
 

13 
 This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused 
by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  
Advanced Robotics for Manufacturing (ARM) is a Manufacturing USA® Institute sponsored 
by the Office of the Secretary of Defense under Agreement Number W911NF -17-3-0004. 
The ARM Institute leverages a unique, robust, and respected consortium members and 
partners across industry, academia and government to make robotics, autonomy and 
artificial intelligence more accessible to U.S. manufacturers large and small, train and 
empower the manufacturing workforce, strengthen our economy and  global 
competitiveness, an d elevate national security and resilience. Based in Pittsburgh, PA 
since 2017, the ARM Institute is leading the way to a future where people & robots work 
together to respond to our nation’s greatest challenges and to produce the world's most 
desired prod ucts. For more information, visit www.arminstitute.org  and follow the ARM 
Institute on LinkedIn and X.  
For more information on the above AI ACTION PLAN, please contact:  
Dr. Chuck Brandt , and  
Lisa Masciantonio .  
  

14 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY BLANK  

