BEFORE THE 
NETWORKING AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND 
DEVELOPMENT NATIONAL COORDINATION OFFICE, 
NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION 
Request for Information on the 
Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
COMMENTS OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY 
OF COMPOSERS, AUTHORS AND PUBLISHERS 
The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP) welcomes the 
opportunity to respond to the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development 
(NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO) Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan.  90 Fed. Reg 9088 (February 6, 2025).  We submit these comments on behalf of ASCAP’s over 1,000,000 songwriter, composer and music publisher members, for whom ASCAP licenses the public performance rights of their millions of copyrighted songs by tens of thousands of music users around the country, including digital music services, radio and television broadcasters, concerts venues, bars and retail stores.   
While AI can be a powerful tool for innovation and has the potential to enhance human 
creative efforts, the unchecked use of this technology threatens to undermine the very purpose of the U.S. copyright laws by supplanting, rather than supporting, human creative work.  Many of ASCAP’s members rely on the public performance royalties paid to them as their main, if not sole, source of income. In the event that AI platforms usurp this revenue stream, untold numbers of U.S. creators stand to lose their ability to earn a living and the foundation of the nation's thriving creative 
economy will be undermined.  


2 Indeed, given that creation of U.S. copyrighted content adds annually billions of dollars to 
the U.S. economy, a policy that fails to recognize the importance and strength of U.S. copyright 
law will place our creative industry at an international disadvantage.   The U.S. can win the AI race without abandoning the strong copyright laws that have fueled creativity and entrepreneurship across the country for decades. 
We strongly believe that U.S. AI policy should meet the following principles, which have been 
consistent with ASCAP’s collective licensing practices since its founding over a century ago: 
•Humans First: A vague appeal to “innovation” cannot justify infringing the rights ofexisting human creators. The copyright laws and other legal frameworks must ensure that
human creativity is supported, rather than supplanted, by developing technologies,
including generative AI.
•Consent: Developers of AI tools, creators of underlying AI models, and compilers oftraining datasets must be responsible for ensuring that all relevant rights have been obtainedfor the use of any copyrighted content included in models or training datasets.
•Transparency: Developers of AI tools, creators of underlying AI models, and compilersof training datasets must be responsible for collecting, maintaining and notifyingrightsholders of accurate and comprehensive information regarding all copyrighted contentthe AI tool or dataset contains, including, where available, all standard industry metadata.
•Compensation: To the extent the AI industry exploits and benefits financially from the
creativity and labor of human artists, writers, and other creators, it must compensate these
creators fairly for the use of their works.


3 •Credit: Developers of AI tools must be responsible for labeling AI-generated musical
works as such, and must provide credit to the creators whose works are utilized in suchgeneration.
•Global Consistency: Because copyrights to musical works are globally administered
through an interconnected structure of international agreements and licensing networks,
global consistency in AI regulation is essential to enabling proper exchange ofcompensation and remuneration across borders. Inconsistencies in international or regionallaws and regulations may not only cause operational disruptions but create back-doors toevade legal compliance.Arguments have been posited that the fair use principles within U.S. copyright law allow
for full-scale infringement of privately-owned copyrighted property.  These arguments have little basis under a sound analysis of recent caselaw.  We point the government to ASCAP’s detailed comments filed with the U.S. Copyright Office as part of the Office’s Study of Artificial Intelligence and Copyright, which is available at:  https://www.ascap.com/~/media/files/pdf/articles/2023/ascap-comments-to-us-copyright-office-
on-generative-ai.pdf.  
*. *. * 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution 
Respectfully submitted, 
March 15, 2025 AMERICAN SOCIETY OF COMPOSERS, AUTHORSAND PUBLISHERS 


