March 14, 2025  
Submitted Electronically at 
Subject: Request for Information (RFI) on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan   
Mr. Faisal D’Souza:  
I am pleased to submit these comments on behalf of the Association for 
Clinical Oncology (ASCO) in response to the RFI on the Development of 
an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan. ASCO is an organization 
representing more than 50,000 physicians and other health care 
professionals specializing in cancer treatment, diagnosis, and prevention. 
We are also dedicated to conducting research that lea ds to improved 
patient outcomes, and we are committed to ensuring that evidence -
based practices for the preventi on, diagnosis, and treatment of cancer 
are available to all Americans.  
ASCO appreciates the Administration’s continued commitment to 
enhancing American leadership in AI. We are committed to working with 
you to help develop and finalize an AI Action Plan that ensures 
innovation in health care is not hampered by unnecessarily b urdensome 
requirements.  
To that end, ASCO recommends that the Administration actively prioritize 
the following:  
• Develop a Flexible Regulatory Framework. The increasing
patchwork of state laws and anticipated legal challenges , compounded
by the rapid and unpredictable pace of AI technological advancement,
may interfere with the goals of a federal AI action plan. We urge the
administration to work collaboratively with Congress to advance
legislation that supports a flexible regulatory approach that prioritizes
the health and well -being of patients.
• Invest in and Support Transformative AI Initiatives.  ASCO
recommends continued investment and support of projects relating to
transformative AI initiatives. Programs administered under the Advanced
1 


Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA -H) address critical challenges in AI 
development and could serve as a beacon for AI innovations.  
•Drive Interoperability and Data Sharing. A key barrier to realizing the promise of AI is
the need for massive volumes of high -quality data. The limited ability to curate large,
complex data sets could lead to poor performance of AI models. To fully recognize the
potential of AI in health care, we  need to address the insufficiencies of current
interoperability capabilities in the health care system by facilitating communication
across the entire health information technology (HIT) continuum.
•Strengthen Cybersecurity and Data Privacy. With large data sets and increased data
sharing comes the risk of security breaches and cyber -attacks. Effective cybersecurity
measures are essential to safeguarding sensitive patient data. Policies will require
flexibility that does not cause undue admini strative and financial burden on already
overwhelmed and taxed oncology practices.
•Promote Trustworthy and Responsible AI. While we can develop exciting new
technologies in health care, widespread adoption – essential for realizing AI’s full
potential – will require trust and confidence in their use. We urge the administration to
address resource restraints within the Food and  Drug Administration (FDA) and to
support robust post -marketing surveillance.
** **  * * 
Develop a Flexible Regulatory Framework  
As we enter a new era of discovery in cancer care and research fueled and supported by AI, 
ASCO understands the potential for these new technologies to provide benefits but is also 
aware of the need for thoughtful deployment and monitoring. ASCO is concerned that, given 
the absence of a federal regulatory framework  and the accelerating evolution of AI capabilities, 
a patchwork of state laws and legal challenges will emerge that may interfere with the 
implementation of a federal AI action plan, limiting its competitive intent.  
ASCO urges the Administration to develop an action plan that supports flexible regulatory 
mechanisms to address an evolving health care infrastructure that will have to confront AI’s 
inherent risks. A nimble approach can enable a more efficient, accessible , and affordable health 
care system that prioritizes and protects the health and well -being of patients with cancer. 
Alignment around sound federal AI policy should enable clinicians and the government to work 
2 


collaboratively towards a common goal of rapid and appropriate deployment of innovative 
technologies that can deliver high -quality care and improve patient outcomes.  
Invest in and Support Transformative AI Initiatives  
ASCO recommends continued investment and support of entities actively engaged in 
transformative AI initiatives. The Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA -H) was 
created to  significantly enhance the health system and research ecosystem and could serve as a 
beacon for AI innovations. Since its inception, ASCO has supported the goals of ARPA -H. We 
anticipate the high -risk, high -reward projects will have a transformative impact  that will benefit 
cancer patients nationwide.   
ARPA -H’s AI -focused efforts include the Performance and Reliability Evaluation for Continuous 
Modifications and Useability of Artificial Intelligence (PRECISE -AI) program.1 This initiative 
directly addresses a critical challenge in AI development: the potential for AI model degradation 
over time (AI drift). Inaccurate AI models in health care can negatively impact patient health 
outcomes, especially given the potential for A I drift. Through continuous monitoring of clinical 
AI models, if AI drift  has been identified, PRECISE -AI could provide capabilities to correct for 
performance degradation without the need for human oversight, thereby reducing the burden 
on individual operators. Importantly, this technology will also communicate clear and actio nable 
information about the sources of degradation and allow users to better interpret model 
uncertainty and thus help them use their software more effectively.   
Other ARPA -H initiatives that leverage AI include researching the discovery and creation of new 
classes of antibiotics to combat antibiotic resistance, developing novel methods to protect 
health care facilities from ransomware attacks, strengthening electronic health infrastructure 
and address vulnerabilities in data security, and the ability to rapidly pinpoin t and validate 
existing medications to treat diseases that currently have no therapies.2 By tackling these issues 
head on, ARPA -H is paving the way for more reliable and effective AI applications in health care. 
ARPA -H’s focus on end product -driven research and development makes them uniquely 
positioned to drive innovation in health AI. We urge the new Administration to commit to 
consistent and sustained support of ARPA -H’s mission and to invest in similar health AI 
initiatives.  
1 https://arpa -h.gov/explore -funding/programs/precise -ai 
2 https://arpa -h.gov/explore -funding/programs   
3 


Drive Interoperability and Data Sharing  
To fully recognize the potential of AI in health care, we need to address a major impediment: 
the current insufficiencies of current interoperability capabilities. To effectively leverage AI, 
massive volumes of high -quality data are needed to support AI technologies’ accuracy and 
reliability. Limited and/or poor -quality data sets can lead to poor performance of AI models and 
result in research conclusions that perpetuate inaccuracy and produce negative health 
outcomes.12 Although adoption of electronic health records has improved data collection, 
insufficient interoperability and gaps in structured health data persist, challenging the use of 
accurate and reliable AI.    
Policies should facilitate the adoption of standards to promote and drive electronic data 
exchange. We must allow the sharing of data across the care continuum- among providers at 
small and large institutions, community practices, academic settings, imagin g centers, 
laboratories, pharmacies, payers, researchers, and patients. Information sharing is the key to 
truly utilizing AI’s potential to derive new clinical insights and improve clinical outcomes, 
coordination of care, and the efficiency of care deliver y. More incentives are needed to create 
the environment for this to occur.    
The new administration should focus on addressing the current barriers to maximizing the value 
of health AI by providing more incentives for providers and researchers to facilitate 
communication and promote interoperability of data sets across the HIT conti nuum.   
Strengthen Cybersecurity and Data Privacy  
With large data sets and increased data sharing comes the risk of security breaches and cyber -
attacks. Effective cybersecurity measures are essential to safeguarding sensitive patient data, 
ensuring the continuity of critical health care services, especial ly cancer care, and preventing 
operational and financial disruptions. As most health care providers and their patients 
increasingly rely on digital transactions for prior authorizations, prescription transmissions, 
clinical decision support, access to pati ent records, and online payments and revenue cycle 
operations, it is imperative that effective and streamlined cybersecurity measures and standards 
are implemented.   
For these reasons, oncology providers are extremely motivated to work within a system secured 
from outside cyberattacks and threats and do their best to comply with HIPAA security 
rules.  Despite our support for a robust cybersecurity environment, ASCO beli eves we must 
ensure that policies do not cause undue administrative and financial burden on already 
overwhelmed oncology practices. ASCO believes that cybersecurity and data privacy policies will 
4 


require flexibility that is necessary for practices to comply while creating a safe and robust 
security environment for stakeholders.  
The need to preserve patient privacy will be an important component in ensuring cybersecurity. 
There is a greater, emerging need to support research on privacy enhancing technologies such 
as federated learning and differential privacy.  More incentives are needed to actively explore 
techniques to help understand AI algorithms (to its extent possible). Ultimately, policies must 
address fundamental questions regarding data stewardship, data sharing, and security while 
safeguarding patient privacy and autonomy.   
Promote Trustworthy and Responsible AI 
While we can develop exciting new technologies in health care, widespread adoption – essential 
for realizing AI’s full potential – will require trust and confidence in their use. In the absence of 
established government or regulatory oversight, ASCO has de veloped principles  for the safe and 
responsible use of AI in oncology. Clinician comfort with utilization of AI tools will depend on 
continued evidence of safety and effectiveness in the post -approval setting. Federal agencies 
like the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) have signaled they do not have the resources or 
scope of authority to design and implement AI oversight mechanisms.3 Currently the FDA has 
limited ability to monitor the technology once it’s on the market, which is further complicated 
by the potential for AI model drift. This highlights the urgent need for effective post -market 
surveillance and reporting mechanisms that  can monitor AI performance throughout the 
lifecycle of AI tools.  
Many efforts are underway to develop model evaluation and validation of safe and effective AI, 
including the deployment of assurance labs with the purpose of enabling transparent and 
localized testing of AI models.4 Federated data sharing offers a potential solution, demonstrating 
high quality comparable results to centralized data while addressing data siloing and privacy 
concerns .5-6 These  approach es align with ASCO’s principles which emphasize data sharing and 
collaboration between AI developers and clinicians.   
** **  * * 
3 Warraich HJ, Tazbaz T, Califf RM. FDA Perspective on the Regulation of Artificial Intelligence in Health Care and 
Biomedicine.  JAMA . 2025;333(3):241 -247. doi:10.1001/jama.2024.21451  
4 Shah NH, Halamka JD, Saria S, et al. A Nationwide Network of Health AI Assurance Laboratories. JAMA. 
2024;331(3):245 –249. doi:10.1001/jama.2023.26930  
5 https://paragoninstitute.org/private -health/the -regulation -of-uncertainty/   
6 Karargyris, A., Umeton, R., Sheller, M.J. et al. Federated benchmarking of medical artificial intelligence with 
MedPerf. Nat Mach Intell 5, 799 –810 (2023). https://doi.org/10.1038/s42256 -023-00652 -2. 
5 


ASCO is pleased to provide input and offers itself as a resource to the Administration as you 
continue to examine how to develop and implement an AI action plan. ASCO believes that 
through flexible regulatory approaches, investments in initiatives that dri ve innovation, enabling 
interoperability, strengthening cybersecurity and data privacy, and promoting trust we can 
harness the promise of AI and make significant strides in maintaining our position as leaders of 
innovation. By collectively embracing the pr oposed recommendations, ASCO hopes to enable a 
future where AI serves as a driver of innovation and clinician empowerment, enhancing the 
practice of medicine through the discovery, development, and delivery of promising new AI 
innovations to patients.  
If you have questions or would like assistance on any issue involving the care of individuals with 
cancer, please contact Allyn Moushey at 
Sincerely,  
Eric P . Winer, MD, FASCO  
Chair of the Board  
Association for Clinical Oncology  
*This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
6 


