March 15, 2025 
[Sent electronically to 
AI Action Plan  
Attn: Faisal D’Souza, NCO 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
RE: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
ASHP (American Society of Health-System Pharmacists) is pleased to submit comments1 on the AI Intelligence 
Action Plan. ASHP is the largest association of pharmacy professionals in the United States, representing 60,000 
pharmacists, student pharmacists, and pharmacy technicians in all patient care settings, including hospitals, 
ambulatory clinics, and health-system community pharmacies. For over 80 years, ASHP has championed 
innovation in pharmacy practice, advanced education and professional development, and served as a steadfast 
advocate for members and patients.  
ASHP recognizes AI’s potential to enhance patient care and the medication-use process. AI can contribute by 
improving data collection for clinical, operational, and economic insights, supporting end users, enriching 
education, and optimizing administrative workflows within pharmacy practice. Pharmacists are uniquely 
positioned to lead AI adoption in healthcare by ensuring safe, effective, and ethical implementation of AI 
technologies. To maximize AI benefits, it is critical that pharmacists and other healthcare professionals play a 
central role in AI model validation, governance, and patient safety assurance . 
ASHP has committed significant resources to evaluating AI’s implications2 for patient care, pharmacy practice, 
and our nation’s healthcare system. In June 2024, the ASHP AI Summit3 convened pharmacy leaders, 
informaticists, and healthcare experts to examine the potential of AI and to consider the potential challenges to 
appropriate use of AI. Key takeaways from the Summit emphasized that: 
AI should be seamlessly integrated into healthcare to enhance decision-making, patient safety, and
operational efficiency—not as a replacement for clinical expertise but as a tool to support and elevate
healthcare professionals.
Building trust in AI-driven healthcare solutions requires transparent validation, continuous monitoring,
and safeguards that prioritize accuracy, reliability, and patient access to all Americans, while fostering
innovation.
Health systems should be encouraged to invest in AI-ready infrastructure, workforce planning, and
governance models to ensure safe and effective implementation while maintaining flexibility for
emerging advancements.1 This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential 
information. Document contents may be  reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution. 
2 See ASHP Statement on Artificial Intelligence in Pharmacy, artificial-intelligence-in-pharmacy.ashx . 
3 See Pharmacy Futures: Summit on Artificial Intelligence in Pharmacy Practice | American Journal of Health-System 
Pharmacy | Oxford Academic . 


ASHP Comments re: AI Action Plan 
March 15, 2025 
Page 2 
A skilled healthcare workforce is essential for maximizing AI’s potential, requiring expanded education
and training initiatives to equip pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with the knowledge to
evaluate, implement, and manage AI tools responsibly.
Pharmacists, as medication experts, should play a key role in AI development, deployment, and
oversight, ensuring AI solutions strengthen medication safety, clinical decision support, and patient-
centered care.
As AI innovation progresses, pharmacy and medication-use processes present a high-impact opportunity to 
improve patient care, medication safety, and healthcare efficiency. To strengthen our nation’s leadership in AI-
driven healthcare innovation, we recommend the following tenets that can help accelerate and guide AI 
adoption in pharmacy and the medication-use process: 
Pharmacy Leadership in AI Decision-Making: Pharmacists should be actively engaged in AI development
and governance, to ensure that AI technologies enhance medication safety, clinical decision support,
and operational efficiency. AI tools that support medication prescribing, dispensing, and monitoring
should align with evidence-based guidelines, industry best practices, and regulatory standards that serve
and protect patients and optimize patient outcomes.
Ensure that AI Supports, Not Replaces, Clinicians’ Medical Decision-Making Authority : AI-powered
tools can improve medication safety through real-time adverse drug event detection, drug interaction
screening, and pharmacovigilance. However, pharmacists and clinicians should retain decision-making
authority to mitigate potential risks of AI drift or over-reliance on AI. Pharmacists should be involved in
ongoing monitoring and quality assurance to mitigate these risks.
Transparency and Validation are Key to AI Adoption in Healthcare : Confidence in innovative AI-driven
healthcare solutions requires clear and transparent validation processes. AI tools used in the
medication-use process should be evaluated for accuracy, reliability, and safety, using best practices
that ensure patient protection while fostering innovation. This process should include model validation,
transparency, and auditing before use in patient care. Further, AI-driven pharmacy systems should be
interoperable with electronic health records and other healthcare technologies, to support seamless
integration into existing healthcare flows.
Expand AI Training for Pharmacists and Healthcare Professionals: A well-trained workforce is essential
to ensuring AI’s timely and responsible adoption. The healthcare workforce should have access to
training on data science fundamentals, AI ethics, generative AI applications in healthcare, and AI model
validation and risk management. Expanding incentives and investment in AI-focused pharmacy residency
programs, training, pharmacist-led AI research, and workforce development will strengthen the nation’s
AI capabilities ensuring that AI applications are safe and effective for patients.
Empower the Pharmacy Workforce Through AI Innovation : AI has the potential to enhance healthcare
operational efficiency through improved inventory management, medication adherence tracking, and
supply chain optimization. AI should be leveraged to free pharmacists from routine administrative tasks,
allowing them to focus on essential, high-value clinical services that improve patient outcomes.
However, pharmacists must ensure AI-driven automation does not compromise patient safety and


ASHP Comments re: AI Action Plan 
March 15, 2025 
Page 3 
privacy, medication access, or workflow efficiency. As AI technologies advance, collaboration between 
healthcare leaders, industry partners, and policymakers will be critical to ensure that workforce training 
keeps pace with AI integration and that the healthcare workforce is strengthened.  
Build Strong AI Accountability, Reliability, and Safety : To maintain trust in AI-driven healthcare
solutions, healthcare organizations (including, but not limited to, pharmacies, physician clinics, insurers,
hospitals and health systems) should establish AI governance models, best practices for AI oversight,
and contingency plans for AI system malfunctions, model failures, cybersecurity threats, system
downtime, and data integrity challenges. Clinicians, including pharmacists and pharmacy technicians,
should be actively involved in defining fallback procedures to protect patient safety and maintain care
continuity in the event of AI system malfunctions.
As work progresses on the AI Action Plan, ASHP stands ready to serve as a partner and resource on AI-driven 
healthcare innovation. We support efforts to integrate AI in healthcare in a safe, effective, and minimally 
disruptive manner. Given the unique challenges and opportunities accompanying AI-driven healthcare 
technologies, we encourage the administration to convene meetings with healthcare providers and other key 
stakeholders to establish consistent national AI adoption standards.  Please do not hesitate to contact me at 
 or  if ASHP can provide any further information or assist the administration in 
any way. 
Sincerely, 
Jillanne Schulte Wall, J.D. 
Senior Director, Health & Regulatory Policy 


