From: Ashton Kray
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan Response
Date: Sunday, March 16, 2025 1:43:37 AM
Attachments: image.png
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
To whomever may receive this email within the parties involved, I felt the need to send my
own statement in regards to this plan regarding letting OpenAI and in a way, nearly everyother AI platform not having any sort of legal repercussion for stealing the work ofindependent creators, deceased artists, and so many other people. Copyright law is a slipperyslope in many ways but allowing companies to siphon away the works of creatives and artistsis just downright dire for the future of any creative venture. Many artists, animators, anddesigners are currently out of work due to the AI push and it can only get worse for theindustry as a whole if a plan like this were allowed to pass. As a freelance artist and painter Iam appalled at the thought of anything pertaining to this passing so I thought I'd give mythoughts on the matter.
 I've included a bullet point list as follows:
AI having no restrictions will tank the film industry and games industry.
Hollywood and many Triple-A game development studios have already dipped their feetinto these technologies and have been met with nothing but pushback from anyone thatactually consumes the media itself, the only individuals within these circles that praisesuch practices are shareholders who only care about a personal gain, often resulting inmassive sunk cost fallacies. 
Alongside this many companies are hoping to use AI tools that feed off the work ofcreators to create entire films without any human intervention, automating the entireprocess. Beyond this, many studios have already started experimenting with using AI toreplicate the voices of dead voice actors or actors in general. This is morally unjust in somany ways for anyone with any ounce of empathy. Aiming to have so much automationin these systems will result in creatively-voided films and games, which while cheap toproduce will leave zero lasting impact and have nearly zero retention for viewersbeyond an initial ironic hate-watching. 
Damaging new ideas is something else that can be a heavy factor due to AI usage, manyof the most memorable ventures within Hollywood or the game's industry were rootedin passionate ideas from people with a clear vision. An AI can never do this as it'sentirely reliant on stealing the works of other people to create a mishmash of stolenassets. This becoming free reign would impact all creatives in a detrimental way, what'sthe point in aiming to make your passion project when there's a vampire waiting to suckaway everything you've made to make an inferior sloppy copy? 
AI has the potential to be protected by copyright due to their funding and backing by
certain individuals, resulting in an oxymoron scenario in which they have protectionover things they've stolen from others.
Time and time again companies seem to have a priority over the people when it comes


to the rules, and creatives are already a group that's underappreciated and often
unprotected beyond filing a patent or copyright on their artwork, we've seen smaller
creatives in the pass be exploited through early AI usage already, and certain tech trendssuch as NFTs or cryptocurrency rug-pulls. 
I am fully under the impression that companies such as OpenAI, OpenSea, or any otherAI-related venture could gain not only immunities, but wiggle their way into being ableto copyright their systems, which to be frank... is one of the most believably stupid andbiased disasters that could happen. Being able to steal everyone else's work whilehaving your own immunities would just be downright disastrous for everyone involved. 
Creative ventures are a difficult thing to even get off the ground nowadays, thishypothetical is entirely possible and a good consideration as to why companies like thisdo not deserve immunities. 
My last point of contention to the general space within what AI occupies; the internet
itself. As it stands currently search engines such as Google, Yahoo, Bing, and manyalternatives and image boorus are completely filled to the brim with AI Generatedcontent, to the point where many people worldwide are led to believe false imagery,such as that of baby animal pictures are real, when they're in fact entirely falsified anddownright fictional images.The baby peacock is a noteworthy example:AI Images:


Not a single image here is actually a real depiction of a peacock. 
Beyond what many businesses believe AI has completely poisoned search queries for
images and information as a whole, such as AI-Recaps of information or articles.Pinterest is one of the biggest points of contention at the moment for this. Pinterest is awebsite that's a repository for images all over the internet, mainly for jewelry, arts,reference material and so much more. As it stands now this website is filled withinaccurate AI generated content.
Misinformation has become ever more dire due to Gen AI content being spread, such asTwitter bots running on different AI-based programs have led to much infighting andjust a general influx of generated content, which has resulted in a very toxic onlinespace alongside current political issues. These bots contribute nothing but bloat andwastes of energy.
My final point on this matter is our future, specifically that of children and so many
others. AI such as OpenAI and ChatTGP has been encouraged and downright approvedfor many younger people, such as students in both public schools and institutions suchas universities. Not only are students using it for projects or writing assistance, but many


teachers/professors are using it to speed up the grading process. This is a horrible thing
to encourage because it not only stifles creativity, but results in a reliance on a tool
rather than being able to problem solve in different scenarios. You don't learn fromhaving a machine generate artworks or writing for yourself, the best way to learn isthrough making mistakes and learning as we grow.
OpenAI gaining immunity to copyright and copyright infringement is a horrible and
downright catastrophic scenario and could lead to a complete destruction of our creativeindustry and most artistry as a whole. These are companies that are business first andempathy later. They do not deserve immunities to something many artists alreadystruggle to maintain themselves. A company such as these do NOT have the right tosteal from people that can barely make ends meet in the first place. This is a machine. It does not have thoughts.It does not have FEELINGS.This is a thoughtless program that relies on human creation to function and doesn'tdeserve equal respect. Do not let this pass. Thank you for your time.
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


