1 *This document is approved for public dissemination *
March 14, 2025  
AI Action Plan  
National Coordination Office , National Science Foundation  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Submitted via: 
To Whom it May Concern: 
The Assistive Technology Industry Association (ATIA) is a nonprofit 501(c)(6) organization for 
manufacturers, sellers, and providers of assistive technology (AT) —products, equipment, and systems 
that enhance learning, working, and daily living for persons with disabilities including school age 
children eligible under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). Working as the 
premier organization serving as the collective voice of the AT industry in the U.S. and ab road, and to 
help ensure the best products and services are delivered to persons with disabilities, we write to 
respond to the  Office of Science and Technology Policy  (OSTP)  through National Science Foundation  
request for input regarding the development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (“Plan”) as 
directed by a Executive Order on January 23, 2025  which directs the development of an AI Plan to 
advance America's AI leadership . 
Our recommendations focus on three areas queried by NSF including research , development , and  [K-
16]education . They  are as fo llows:
I.Invest in new assistive technology  that leverage s AI
Artificial Intelligence (AI) has the potential to revolutionize Assistive Technology1 (AT) in K -16 
classrooms  and career education , offering transformative improvements in communication, visual aids, 
mobility, and support for K-16 students with disabilities. New and existing sources of federal research 
and development funds should be made available -both public and private - to develop new AT models 
that leverage AI and to support the integration of AI into existing AT products . We already know that 
when AI is integrated into existing AT ( e.g., AI-enabled hearing aids , voice activ ated personal support , 
care,  or assistance  etc.) it helps users of AT  maintain all types of d aily tasks related to l earning, living,  
and earning. Policy and funding must also encourage innovation in AI that addresses the needs of 
children , youth,  and adults with disabilities . To do so, investments must support cross -disciplinary 
research and development to drive innovation in AI including in developing AT solutions.  
1 Assistive technology  is defined as any piece of equipment, device, or system used to improve or maintain the ability level of the 
individual with a disability in the educational setting, in employment, in transportation, and in all aspects of daily living . Assistive 
technolog y can be handmade, store brought, a modified item, or a specially designed device.  See: P.L. 117 -328, The 21st Century 
Assistive Technology Act  (2022).  


2 II.Invest in accessible AI to ensure human flou rishing
As with any new technology development, AI-driven development and implementation platforms must 
be developed and designed accessible  (i.e., they are available  to all) , must incorporate the principles of 
universal design2, must include accessibility features as a standard (not merely optional) , and for 
federal agenc y use, all AI -supported technology must also meet the required accessibility standards 
under Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.3 If education  and employment -centric AI does 
not adhere to these essential requirements, our investments will only create barriers which will limit 
access to education, career training , and economic opportunities for millions  of disabled individuals 
who want to thrive  and experience  “human flou rishing ” alongside their peers. 
III. Engage stakeholders in AI plans, including people with disabilities
To ensure that  AI technologies do not create barriers  for people with disabilities , investment [in AI and 
AI-integrated AT] must foster collaboration and partnerships between AI developers, AT developers 
and providers, disabled individuals , educators,  and other  end-users. Individuals with disabilities must 
be included from the outset of research  and development to understand their needs and preferences and  
gather insights and feedback on AI -driven AT solutions.  Much can be gained when researchers, 
developers and innovators engage the disability community for input and integrat e disability 
awareness within mainstream technology conversations, planning,  and implementation . 
ATIA appreciates the opportunity to provide recommendations regarding the AI Plan . If we can 
provide additional information, please  contact us  at 
Sincerely,  
David Dikter  
Executive Director  
2 Universal design  is the design and composition of any products or environments are designed to be  accessed, used, and understood to 
the greatest extent possible by all  people, regardless of age, size, ability, disability, without the need for adaption or s pecialized design. 
See: The UDL Guidelines  at: https://udlguidelines.cast.org/  
3 Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 is the standard customarily used to consider whether or not environments or mat erials 
are compliant with requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See: P.L. 93 -112, as amended (29 U.S.C. §794d). See 
also: the " Guide to Accessible Web Design Development [to implement Section 508] ," https://www.section508.gov/content/guide -
accessible -web-design -development/  and the recommendations of the  World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) . 


