 March 15, 2025 
 Atlassian appreciates the opportunity to share our perspectives to inform the forthcoming US 
 Artificial Intelligence Action Plan (the “Plan”).  1  Atlassian  is an enterprise software company 
 committed to helping teams work smarter and faster. Guided by our mission — to unleash the 
 potential of every team — Atlassian delivers software solutions that drive productivity for 
 organizations of all sizes. Today, over 300,000 enterprise teams globally utilize Atlassian 
 products to enhance their collaboration, including 80% of Fortune 500 companies. 
 Atlassian has over one million monthly active users of our AI products.  In this capacity, 
 Atlassian plays the role of an AI “integrator” in that we combine, facilitate access to, and 
 integrate AI models developed by third parties into our AI products. Indeed, our AI strategy has 
 been built on a belief in multiple models from day one. This strategy allows us to swiftly realize 
 the benefits of improvements in performance and costs of foundation models. In turn, we pass 
 these benefits to our customers through results that are higher quality, faster, and lower cost.  
 Our Responsible Tech practices have helped us prepare for a complex regulatory 
 environment  .  Our approach to AI is rooted in our  Responsible  Technology Principles  , the 
 framework we use internally to ensure we’re being thoughtful about our development and use of 
 new technology. Our Principles were heavily informed by, and designed to align with, a number 
 of similar principles embedded in policy and regulatory frameworks globally. But they are also 
 uniquely Atlassian. We drew on our  company mission  and values  as well as our commitments to 
 our customers, employees, and stakeholders. 
 In 2024, we published our  No BS Guide to Responsible  Tech Reviews  , which describes our 
 learnings from applying our template across Atlassian. By open-sourcing our principles, 
 template, and sharing our lessons, we aim to encourage feedback and collaboration across 
 stakeholder communities about the impacts of technology, and especially AI. 
 Our four recommendations reflect our role as a global technology provider.  Like many 
 other software companies, we face a constantly changing regulatory landscape. We are 
 headquartered in Sydney, Australia and we have nearly 4,000 employees in the United States, 
 which also is our largest market by revenue. In addition to national policies and legislation 
 concerning AI emerging in Asia-Pacific and Europe’s unfolding regulatory scheme under the AI 
 Act, our operating environment is shaped by an increasing volume of regulatory determinations 
 from relevant domains (e.g., privacy) and legislative bodies (e.g., US states) that address AI. 
 We believe the Plan presents an opportunity to impact international policy trends by presenting 
 new ideas about: (1) actors in the AI value chain; (2) support for multi-model AI; (3) government 
 procurement and use of AI; and (4) international partnerships to collaborate with like-minded 
 partners on advancing AI adoption. 
 Recommendation 1: Enable policy frameworks that recognize the role of AI integrators in 
 the AI value chain.  The Plan should acknowledge the role that AI integrators play in bridging 
 between foundation model providers, who sit at the top of the AI value chain and offer an 
 increasingly commoditized product, and AI system deployers, who represent the last mile in 
 1  This  document  is  approved  for  public  dissemination.  The  document  contains  no  business-proprietary  or  confidential  information. 
 Document  contents  may  be  reused  by  the  government  in  developing  the  AI  Action  Plan  and  associated  documents  without 
 attribution. 
 1 


 delivering AI to their end users. Current policymaking processes focus mostly on whether an 
 entity is a “developer” or a “deployer” of AI. However, many of the companies leading AI 
 innovation, including ours, often do not develop their own AI models or have a direct relationship 
 with the end-user consumer. Instead, these companies commonly occupy the role of an AI 
 “integrator” – companies that combine, facilitate access to, and integrate AI models into 
 products and services. 
 For the United States to reach its full potential in AI innovation, it is important that the Plan 
 enables policy frameworks that expand on the developer-deployer framing. Indeed, AI systems 
 are developed, integrated, combined, and deployed through a complex value chain in which 
 multiple entities may make decisions that impact the safety or risk of the system. Accordingly, 
 the Plan should recognize the unique role of integrators, and how US federal policy can enable 
 the growth and thriving of this critical middle space in the AI value chain. One such area is the 
 marketplace for foundation models, which serve as a core component of AI products that many 
 integrators have brought to market. 
 Recommendation 2: Encourage growth in the marketplace for foundation models.  The 
 Plan should promote growth at the top of the AI value chain to ensure that AI integrators can 
 choose from a broad range of performant foundation models and access reliable information 
 about them. Atlassian relies on a multi-model strategy to deliver the best AI experience for our 
 customers, and we leverage leading open source and proprietary models from different 
 providers. We believe the industry will go through an explosion of new, cheaper, smaller 
 foundation models. As such, our R&D investment is directed towards building our AI gateway to 
 rapidly test, deploy, and productionize multiple models from multiple providers. This strategic 
 approach allows us to swiftly realize the benefits of improvements in performance and costs of 
 foundational models. In turn, we pass these benefits to our customers through results that are 
 higher quality, faster, and lower cost. 
 As an AI integrator, the federal government’s engagement in AI model evaluation provides 
 valuable information to enable our assessment of models. For example, the National Institute of 
 Standards and Technology (NIST) plays an especially important role as a trusted authority on AI 
 evaluation, including evaluations conducted in partnership with other national standards 
 authorities. Likewise, NIST has served a central role in providing guidance and standards to 
 support IT deployment across the federal enterprise. The Plan should reinforce NIST’s 
 continued role in these areas, as well as its broader contributions to the AI research community. 
 Recommendation 3: Facilitate AI adoption by government agencies by clarifying AI 
 procurement and use policies.  Government procurement  and deployment of AI products 
 should be a key priority for the Plan. The revision of OMB Memoranda M-24-10 and M-24-18 
 pursuant to Executive Order 14179 should reorient US government IT policy to facilitate broad 
 adoption of AI. Given that the road to AI often runs through cloud services, a key corollary of this 
 initiative should be reform of the FedRAMP authorization process to allow for expedited review 
 of AI products so that they can be brought online to enhance FedRAMP authorized services, at 
 least at the Low and Moderate levels.  
 The Plan should also position the US federal government to lead by example in its use of AI. 
 Building on Executive Order 13960, the Plan should include a mechanism or process that 
 enables the White House and the interagency policymaking process to understand and gain 
 insight from years of data about agency-level utilization of AI. Additionally, consistent with the 
 recently-enacted  SHARE IT Act  , the Plan should take into account that federal agencies 
 2 


 involved in AI development will share their source code across agencies using code 
 repositories, unlocking opportunities for government efficiency. 
 Recommendation 4: Invest in international partnerships to collaborate with like-minded 
 partners and advance AI adoption.  International collaboration  on AI is a critical concern for 
 Atlassian because of our global footprint. Today, our AI teams span countries and timezones, 
 with core engineering work done in US and Australia. We believe strongly in the US-Australia 
 partnership, given Australia’s role as a major non-NATO ally, a partner to the US in the Quad 
 and through AUKUS, and signatory to a free trade agreement with the US. Indeed, our company 
 history – an Australian startup that grew into a US-domiciled, NASDAQ-listed company with 
 thousands of employees across the US – is a testament to the power of US-Australia 
 collaboration. 
 The Plan should advance the interoperability of policy and legal frameworks that enable 
 companies to compete globally and reduce unnecessary compliance. Achieving this outcome 
 depends on strong collaboration – both bilateral and multilateral – to shape globally 
 interoperable approaches to AI risk management. For example, multilateral institutions continue 
 their ongoing projects to develop governance frameworks for AI, including the G7 and the 
 United Nations. The Plan should maintain a seat at the table in these dialogues with an eye 
 towards mitigating burdensome requirements that limit innovation. The Plan should further 
 promote the NIST AI Risk Management Framework in these forums, which would serve as a 
 foundation for consistent, predictable benchmarks that ease implementation of AI governance. 
 3 


