From: Aub Random
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Wednesday, March 5, 2025 10:43:26 AM
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government  
in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
I am writing to strongly urge the inclusion of policies related to environmental protection in  
any national action plan for artificial intelligence. Continued U.S. leadership in the  
development of AI is critical for shaping the future digital landscape, as these technologies  
carry immense benefits for the American people. However, in advancing the development of  
AI, we must also be cognizant of the negative environmental impacts of such development. 
The training and use of AI has come with corresponding increases in electricity demand, water  
consumption, and harmful gas emissions. This is particularly true with the introduction of  
more powerful generative AI models, which have seen rapid development and deployment in  
recent years. By all projections, the explosive growth of this emerging technology will only  
continue in the near future.
As such, it is essential that the United States take the environment into account. It is the duty  
of the federal government to protect American land, air, and water for future generations, a  feat 
that is more necessary than ever. Combined with the growing impacts of climate change  
nationwide - which include more frequent and severe weather events that affect human health  
and safety as well as changing weather patterns that reduce agricultural productivity - the  
uncontrolled growth of artificial intelligence technologies is poised to do severe harm to the  
nation.
Mitigation of the massive environmental impacts of artificial intelligence is possible. Both  
private and federal researchers have already launched efforts to study these impacts. With  
prudent federal policies that prioritize sustainable AI development, the U.S. can preserve  
national natural resources while enhancing innovation and technological dominance. For this  
reason, I again urge you to support the responsible and sustainable development of AI  
technologies. Thank you.
-Aubrey Ahmed


