March 15, 2025  
Request for Comments: AI Ac tion Plan  
Attention: Faisal D’Souza , Office of Science and Technology Policy Networking and Informa tion 
Technology Research and Development , National Coordina tion Office  
Sent via email to: 
From: Peter Berkery on behalf of the Association of University Presses  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
On behalf of the 163 institutional members of the Association of University Presses  (AUPresses) , 
80% of whom are based in the United States, I write to offer our support for comments submitted 
by the Association of American Publishers  in response to the OS TP’s consultation .  
Moreover, the UK government recently undertook a similar consultation on AI and Copyright . 
AUPresses submitted detailed responses in that consultation, which responses are applicable 
here; they can be found at:  UK_AI_Consultation_2025_AUPresses_official.pdf  
As a global community of mission -driven publishers, the Association asserts that current copyright 
laws protect the rights holder from the unauthorized use of their work and should be upheld. Legal 
changes should not be made that make it harder for individ uals to protect their work yet easier for 
companies to obtain copyrighted content.   
. Changes to current copyright law should not be made that make it harder for individuals to protect 
their work yet easier for companies to obtain copyrighted content, which exploits vulnerable rights 
holders who do not understand, are unaware, cannot opt -out, or make a mistake in tryin g to opt -
out. If any changes to the law are to take place, then we believe copyright laws should be 
strengthened to protect rights holders further from the unauthorized  acquisition and use of their 
work by AI companies.   
The only approach we support is the existing approach where a company who wishes to use 
copyrighted material actively obtains consent from the rights holder. The onus must be on the 
companies to acquire consent and not the individual rights holder to secur e additional protection 
beyond copyright, especially as individuals will have many works that require protection and will 
have differing comprehension and ability to opt -out successfully. Rights holders are currently 
engaging with AI companies to licen se their content and this is the correct approach.   
As the recent Paris AI Summit concluded, “There will be no trusted AI without respect for 
intellectual property rights. There will be no ethical AI without the authorization of rights holders. 
There will be no sovereign AI without a fair business model."  


