Submitted via electronic mail at 
March 15, 2025 
AI Action  Plan  
Attn: Faisal D’Souza  
NITRD National Coordination Office 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue Alexandria, Virginia 22314 
RE: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (“ AI”) Action 
Plan  
Dear Mr. D’Souza:  
Allianc e for Automotive Innovation is pleased to submit comments to the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy (“OSTP”) in response to its request for information on the development of an Artificial Intelligence (“AI”) Action Plan. Alliance for Automotive Innovation appreciates the 
Administration’s engagement with various stakeholders regarding policy actions that sustain and enhance the country’s global AI dominance and promote innovation. 
Allianc e for Automotive Innovation represents the full automotive industry, including the manufacturers 
producing most vehicles sold in the U.S., equipment suppliers, battery producers, semiconductor makers, technology companies, and autonomous vehicle developers. Our mission is to work with policymakers to realize a cleaner, safer, and smarter transportation future and to ensure a healthy and competitive auto industry that supports U.S. economic and national security. Representing approximately 5 percent of the country’s GDP, responsible for supporting 10 million jobs, and driving $1.2 trillion in annual economic activity, the automotive industry is the nation’s largest manufacturing sector.  
The automot ive industry leverages the power of AI  to integrate driver support features, advanced safety 
technologies, and automated driving systems into consumer vehicles. These and other technological advances have the potential to improve roadway safety, increase traffic efficiency, reduce serious injuries and deaths, and help protect all road users. For these reasons, Alliance for Automotive 
Innovation shares the Administration’s commitment to solidifying the United States’ position as a leader in AI  and to promoting economic competitiveness and national security. 
Allianc e for Automotive Innovation makes the following recommendations to OSTP as it identifies the 
highest priority policy actions that should be in the new AI Action Plan: 
•Regulator y Coordination:  The AI Action Plan should prioritize a “whole-of-government”
approach to any potential AI regulation. The Plan should encourage interagency coordination to
minimize duplication of or conflict with existing regulatory requirements whenever possible. For


heavil y regulated  industries such as the automotive industry, the Plan should account for existing 
regulatory oversight of AI-enabled  systems.  
 
• Risk Management:  The AI Action Plan should encourage adoption of voluntary risk 
management frameworks and industry best practices for assessing the risks associated with the 
use of AI . It is critical that the public and private sectors work together to determine the 
appropriate balance between enabling the benefits of AI technologies for promising use cases 
and managing or reducing the risks posed by such technologies. Examples of such an approach include the International Organization for Standardization/I nternational Electromechanical 
Commission Standard 42001 or the National Institute of Standards and Technology Artificial Intelligence Risk Management Framework.  
 
• Standards Development:  The AI Action Plan should establish a forum for public and private 
sector experts  to contribute to the development of voluntary AI -related standards and guidelines 
that will increase adoption of AI technologies. Such collaboration would ensure that AI standards do not result in barriers to innovation by U.S. companies that develop and deploy AI. The 
National Institute of Standards and Technology (“NIST”), as a non-regulatory agency, has a long history of industry engagement and crafting voluntary guidance documents that have become 
global benchmarks. NIST continuing its work on AI would help guarantee that the U. S. leads the 
development of AI standards.    
• Autonomous Vehicles:  The AI Action Plan should call for the development of a federal 
autonomous vehicle (“AV”) deployment framework. AI is a critical input for AVs. Other 
countries – including China, France, and Germany – are implementing regulatory frameworks to support the development and deployment of AVs , and this raises questions about U.S. economic 
competitiveness in the automotive sector. If other nations lead in this space, they can guide the 
development of international standards, control supply chains, and define international markets. The U.S. Department of Transportation and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration should lead on this issue. 
 
• Export Controls:  The AI Action Plan should streamline the patchwork of AI-related export 
controls. The potential imposition of additional controls on AI  technologies and inputs should 
exclude civil automotive applications , except to the extent necessary to address a specific 
national security concern. Any controls should reflect and accommodate the civil, commercial nature of automotive use cases and avoid impeding the research, design, and development activities of the U.S. automotive industry. Such constraints could place the industry at a globally 
competitive disadvantage, particularly as it relates to supply and value chains. 
 
• Intellectual Property  Rights: The AI Action Plan should assess how current intellectual 
property policy incentivizes investment in AI technologies. In addition to concerns regarding patentability  and patent quality, an area for consideration is AI- related standard essential patents 
(“SEPs”). The ability to license SEPs on fair, reasonable, and non- discriminatory (“F/RAND”) 
terms is critical to balancing the market power that SEP holders have with the needs of automotive companies to license and implement common standardized technologies such as Internet connectivity, increased computing capacity, or broadband cellular networks. It is importa nt that any AI -related SEPs abide by F/RAND licensing terms as well.  


***** 
Allianc e for Automotive Innovation appreciates being able to share the perspective of the U.S. 
automotive industry on the important issue or removing barriers to U.S. leadership in AI. We look 
forward to continued engagement with OSTP as it develops the AI Action Plan. 
Sincerely , 
Tara Hairs ton 
Senior Director, Technology Policy 


