March  14, 2025 
Via email (
Faisal D’Souza, NCO  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  
Executive Office of the President  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Re: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan  
AI Progress  appreciates the opportunity to provide comments in response to the Request 
for Information, issued on behalf of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) by 
the NITRD NCO, which seeks input on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action 
Plan.  
AI Progress is a 501(c)(4) organization dedicated to the responsible development of 
artificial intelligence (AI) tools . The coalition emphasizes the essential role of existing 
United States copyright law in fostering innovation, protecting intellectual property rights, 
and securing United States  competitiveness in AI innovation . Members include Amazon, 
Anthropic, Cohere, Google, Meta, Midjourney, Microsoft, and OpenAI.  
We share the Trump administration’s objective of advancing American leadership in AI by 
developing policies that not only promote America’s AI dominance but also protect against 
unnecessarily burdensome requirements that hamper private -sector AI innovation. To 
meet these goals, any AI Action  Plan should further AI developers’ innovation, foster 
economic growth, and generate employment opportunities.  
The types of computational analysis that underlie AI and machine learning play a central 
role in delivering  on the goals in America’s AI Action Plan, from life sciences, energy, 
security, and financial services to the creative industries. Protecting the right and ability to 
perform a computational analysis on publicly available data is necessary to achieve those 
goals. United States copyright law must therefore remain sufficiently flexible to permit 
developers to gather and analyze varied data sets to make AI models reliable, robust, and 
effective. Put differently, access to training material is crucial for creating effe ctive AI 
models, which in turn, supports the development of AI technologies that can solve real -
world problems, drive scientific discovery, and create new opportunities for growth and 
innovation across industries.  


2 
Accordingly, it is essential that policymakers not only preserve the flexibility inherent in 
United States  copyright law , but also affirm that it is a protected fair use to train on publicly  
available works. It is also essential to resist  efforts that would impose undue regulatory 
burdens on AI developers, including legislative efforts on both the federal and state level, 
which would undermine the advancement of AI. This is all the more critical given the fierce 
global competition for lead ership in the AI field.  
Data to Train, Tune & Improve AI Models and Systems is Critical for AI Innovation  
AI is a foundational and transformative technology with the power to drive scientific 
discovery, strengthen national security, and generate new economic opportunities. 
Effectively leveraging AI is critical for the United States  to maintain its position as a global 
technological leader.  
Already, AI is powering economic expansion and  industry transformation. Goldman Sachs 
projects that AI will have a measurable effect on United States  GDP by 2027 and may 
contribute to a 7% annual increase in global GDP over the next decade . Similarly, Bank of 
America predicts that AI will drive employment growth in fields such as aerospace, 
information technology, education, and healthcare . As AI technologies continue to evolve, 
their economic impact will become increasingly pronounced, with the emergence of new 
industries, businesses, and professional opportunities.  
Innovation in AI fundamentally depends on the ability of AI models to be trained on large 
quantities of data. The technical process of “learning” for AI models means being able to 
derive patterns, structures, and relationships from across a broad body of content so that 
they can operate on probabilistic modeling. The amount of data used in training today’s AI 
models improves accuracy and robustness. Attempts to limit or impede the use of data to 
train AI models risk hindering the United States ’ technological progress in AI. Policymakers 
should thus oppose any measures that could lead to a reduction in access to or use of 
publicly available data for AI training purposes.  
Consequently, any attempts to limit or impede the use of data to train AI models risks 
hindering the United States ’ technological progress in AI. Other countries have adapted 
their laws and environments to ensure AI training and models can flourish. Therefore, we 
make the following recommendations:  
•Policymakers should oppose any measures that could block or restrict access to or
use of data for AI training purposes; and
•Policymakers should promote measures that permit access to and use of data for
AI training purposes.


3 
United States  Copyright Law Fosters AI Innovation Through Fair Use  
The United States  currently leads the world in AI development, thanks, in part, to existing 
United States  copyright law and its robust fair use doctrine. The doctrine of fair use permits 
unauthorized  copying and other use s of copyrighted works where — as with training AI 
systems — the secondary use is for a new (i.e., “transformative”) purpose and does  not 
function as a market substitute for the original  copyrighted works.  
As was Congress’s goal, fair use has played a crucial role in promoting American 
innovation and technological developments. When deciding to incorporate the doctrine of 
fair use into the 1976 Copyright Act, Congress recognized fair use as “one of the most 
important and well -established limitations on the exclusive right of copyright owners,” 
which should be “adapt[ed]” to accou nt for “rapid technological change.” H.R. Rep. No. 
94–1476 at 65 –66 (1976). Congress noted that fair use had “been raised as a defense in 
innumerable copyright actions over the years,” and that there had been “ample case law 
recognizing the existence of th e doctrine and applying it.” Id. at 65. Additionally, as courts 
have long recognized, fair use safeguards the essential freedom of expression inherent in 
the First Amendment, which creates space for various uses of copyrighted works that do 
not require permission or payment.  
Time and time again, courts have applied fair use to prevent copyright from exceeding “its 
lawful bounds” and obstructing the development and distribution of new and innovative 
technologies. See, e.g. , Google LLC v. Oracle Am., Inc. , 593 U.S. 1, 31 (2021) (finding t he 
use of declarations copied from a computer program’s application programming interface 
(API) to be fair where it “further[ed] the development of computer programs” by allowing 
programmers to use their acquired skills to develop new applications for a ne w platform); 
Authors Guild, Inc. v. Google Inc. , 804 F.3d 202, 217 (2d Cir. 2015) (finding fair use where 
the digitizing of millions of books to enable a search function was transformative and not 
meant as a substitute for the authors’ books); Authors Guild v. Hathi Trust , 755 F.3d 87, 97 
(2d Cir. 2014) (similar; “the result of a word search is different in purpose, character, 
expression, meaning, and message from the page (and the book) from which it is drawn”); 
Sega Enters. Ltd. v. Accolade, Inc. , 977 F.2d 1510, 1522 (9th Cir. 1992) (finding fair use 
where computer code was copied for the purpose of reverse engineering and studying how 
to develop new video games that were compatible with an existing game console).  
The use of copyrighted materials to train AI models similarly qualifies as a transformative 
— and thus fair — use. The purpose of AI training is not to extract and reproduce original 
expression from training data. Rather, the purpose is for AI models to derive patterns, 
structures, and relationships from across a broad body of content so that they can 
generate appropriate responses to user prompts based on statistical relationships. It  is 
these patterns — not the training data’s protectable expression — on which the models 


4 
rely. The training data is extensively transformed and processed using mathematical 
formulas, and then broken down into numerical representations and embedded in a 
complex network of parameters. AI developers’ use of training data is wholly distinct from 
the uses of the authors of such underlying data. Models use the data not to copy their 
content or challenge authors’ ability to sell copies of their works, but rather to develop an 
entirely new and innovative service that, in turn, produces valuable new con tent — thereby 
vastly expanding the capacity for human creative productivity.  
As discussed , the development of large -scale AI models necessitates training on extensive 
volumes of data. Access to a broad and diverse dataset is essential for ensuring the 
accuracy and effectiveness of AI systems. Fair use supports innovation by ensuring that AI 
developers are able to access  and use the necessary training data that AI developers need 
to continue to build new AI models . 
Given the profound implications for the future of AI, we urge po licymakers to recognize that 
the United States  doctrine of fair use is an essential component of any legal framework 
that will govern AI, and that the use of copyrighted materials to train  AI models must 
ultimately be considered fair use as a matter of law. Our Founding Fathers sought to 
“promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts.” U.S. Const. art. I, § 8, cl. 8. 
Transformative secondary uses like model training  further this Constitutional goal by 
encouraging the development and distribution of groundbreaking technologies.  
Secure America’s Global Technological Leadership 
Despite the flexibility of existing United States  copyright law and the fair use doctrine, both 
U.S. and international regulators are increasingly considering changes that would 
handicap the development of AI technologies . The measures being discussed would not 
enhance model accuracy or safety and are unnecessary for the protection of rightsholders, 
as the current legal framework already addresses legitimate cases of infringement . 
Hindering AI development due to unnecessary regulation and restrictions would mean 
relinquishing leadership in AI to other nations, thus undermining the United States ’ 
prosperity and security. Instead, policymakers should focus on advancing the 
competitiveness of United States  AI and creative industries by protecting the core 
provisions of copyright law that offer technology -neutral protections to legitimate 
rightsholders and innovators.  
Restricting access to AI training data would create self -imposed barriers to innovation, 
positioning other nations to lead in innovation and encouraging developers to capitalize on 
more permissive regulatory environments. Indeed, some countries have adapte d their 
laws and environments to ensure AI training and models can flourish. For example, 


5 
Singapore and Japan both took significant steps to create cop yright laws favorable to AI 
development . Similarly, China is also considering more developer -friendly copyright laws, 
including not imposing restrictions on training, to provide a competitive edge in AI 
development.  
The introduction of new statutory licensing frameworks in the United States  could 
fundamentally alter the existing copyright system, creating significant obstacles to 
technological advancement. Any statutory licensing framework relating to AI training is not 
only inappropriate given fair use considerations, but it would also crea te unprecedented 
administrative burdens, harm small businesses and innovators, slow the advancement of 
scientific progress, and upend a nascent tool being used by hundreds of millions of 
Americans. While existing statutory licensing schemes may cover millions of works, a 
similar regime for works used for AI training purposes would need to administer royalty 
payments for billions  of works, including fractional, anonymous, and unclaimed works. It is 
unclear how such a framework is even possible . 
In addition, legislation forcing AI developers to disclose their training data would impair 
American companies’ ability to compete within the global marketplace and present 
genuine security and competition concerns. Revealing details about the inputs assoc iated 
with AI models may create opportunities for bad actors to exploit the models and their 
training programs. The selection of inputs, how those inputs are used during the training 
cycle, and the data preparation process represent the application of tech nical skill and 
know -how that model developers treat as confidential information. Forcing AI companies 
to disclose the contents of their datasets would gift their confidential business information 
to foreign AI competitors that  may not be subject to similar disclosure requirements. Such 
forced disclosure would effectively handicap United States  technology companies and 
benefit foreign competitors.  
Because overregulation risks disrupting United States  innovation, policymakers should 
prevent the enactment of burdensome regulations on American AI developers. Therefore, 
AI Progress recommends the following:  
•Reject the option of a new statutory licensing framework, related to AI training, as
unnecessary, unworkable, and anti -innovation; and
•Prohibit efforts by governments to compel companies to transfer, disclose, or
provide access to AI -related intellectual property, such as source code, algorithms,
and datasets.


 
 
 
 
6 
 
 
Conclusion  
 
As the United States  continues to lead in AI, it is crucial that policymakers recognize and 
embrace the strength and adaptability of existing United States  copyright law.  
 
United States  copyright law, particularly the fair use doctrine, already provides the 
necessary flexibility to address many scenarios likely to arise with generative AI. And 
courts have decades of experience in applying the fair use doctrine to new technologies. 
Introd ucing new statutory requirements or restrictions would create unnecessary barriers 
to progress, hinder economic growth, and weaken America’s competitive edge in the 
global AI landscape.  
 
We are grateful for the opportunity to provide feedback on this RFI and commend the 
administration’s dedication to maintaining American leadership in AI.  
 
To that end, it is vital to uphold the existing copyright framework, which has long supported 
technological advancement and  to resist efforts that would impose undue regulatory 
burdens on AI developers in this vital stage of innovation.  
 
We look forward to continuing to engage with t he Trump administration,  NSF, OSTP, and 
other agencies to ensure that United States  policy remains conducive to innovation, 
economic prosperity, and global AI leadership.  
 
 
 
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  


