AI Action  Plan : The  Arts and Technology and the  Creative Industries:  
  A Critical Driver for AI Innovation  
The purpo se of this response is to describe a targeted and specific focus  that is essential 
to the nation’s AI initiative.  We anticipate many  responses from other universities and 
industry that speak to the need for federal support for fundamental AI research, 
education, and workforce development.  We fully support those recommendations and will not focus this response to duplicate consensus input.  Rather, we write to advocate for the importance of the Arts in a National AI strategy to maintain US dominan ce in 
technology for the entertainment industry (music, motion pictures, video games, etc.; 
sectors that are growing at a rate often over 5% per annum) ; promote innovation and 
creativity in U.S. technology advances; and create the next generation of AI leaders 
though integration of AI and the arts.  Current trends in AI development suggest that the U.S.’s key competitors in the technology space are unlikely to take advantage of the arts as a lever and driver  for digital innovation  and paradigm shifts . A foc us on the  
intersection of art and AI therefore represents a unique opportunity for the U.S. to 
maintain and advance its leading position in this field.    
“The more creativity we bring to AI, the more our AI can bring to creativity .” 
Jensen Huang , Founder, N vidia Corporation . 
The Arts
1 are already a strategic resource for the AI  economy.  AI and the arts  are the 
drivers of  areas such as AR/VR/xR, immersive  and embodied simulation and training , 
and all aspects of UX  design .  Inexplicably, artists are often not at the table in setting 
direction for next generation AI . 
1 We understand the arts to include the fine and applied arts including but not limited to: visual art, time -
based media, animation, design, architecture, drama, performance, music, creative writing and other 
creative practices. 


Our re sponse to this RFI is based on the following national challenge : 
a) AI models and tools are centered on creative practices including creative
writing, visual and aural composition, and industrial design  and architecture ;
b)as described, the arts bring a depth of knowledge and craft that will advance
these tools and spur continued innovation  as well as emergent paradigm shifts
that have created companies  from Meta  (AI and social media) to Nvidia  (AI and
GPU s);
c) there is an increased demand for creative cross- trained workers,
entrepreneurs, and decision -makers  who can meet the needs of an AI -ready
workforce.
Our competitors are not likely to recognize and value  the role of the arts as national 
assets in the global contest, but we can and should.  
THE NATIONA L CONTRIBUTION AND ECONOMIC IMPACT OF THE ARTS  
“There are so many opportunities to do good work bringing the artistic perspective into business 
and technology. The future of innovation —and the future of humanity  lies at this intersection of 
arts and technology.” 
Domhnaill Hernon, former Nokia Bell Labs Director in Forbes magazine (2020). 
After WWII, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) integrated the arts on 
campus to contextualize the “why” and “for whom” of new technologies to augment the “how.”   Former MIT president, Jerome B. Wiesner (1971-1980), noted that “[t]aken 
together, the arts, science and technology form a triple anvil on which to forge a new kind of apprenticeship for a complex world” (Jerome B. Wiesner President of MIT 1971 -
1980). Tod ay’s world is no less complex than the one Wiesner inhabited. One of the 
greatest sources of that complexity is the advent of AI.   
Arts and design educational programs, colleges, and universities around the nation have driven the U.S.’s long history of innovation and experimentation in education, research, and creative practice. This is no less true with AI. Not only have we fostered innovations, but trailblazin g graduates who are actively contributing to the future of AI 
in the world. As previously mentioned, arts graduates can be found in leading U.S. firms from Apple, Microsoft, Google, Meta, Amazon to NVIDIA Capitol One , Boeing, 
Lockhead Martin, SpaceX,  and many, many, more. Our graduates are central to key 
sectors of American industry that collectively contribute more than $4 trillion to the U.S. economy. In particular:  


●Media  and Entertainment:  spans motion picture, television, streaming, music,
video, radio, books, and video gaming employed over 16 million workers in 2021
(trade.gov ) These industries added approximately $2.9 trillion to the U.S. economy
in 2021, accounting for 12.52% of the GDP. ( trade.gov ). This is projected to grow to
$3.4 trillion by 2028, far exceeding the average GDP. Companies like NVidia
●Creative Economies which include  gig work, freelance creatives, and individual
entrepreneurs. In California, five core creative industries employed over 1 millionfull-time employees and over 400,000 contract workers. ( dwt.com
) Globally, the
creative industries market was valued at approximately $2.78 trillion in 2023 and isprojected to reach $4.06 trillion by 2032. (
businessresearchinsights.com )
●Architecture:  127,300 architects / 105,847 licensed architects in the United States.
(en.wikipedia.org ). The broader architecture and engineering occupations
employed about 195,000 individuals in 2023. ( bls.gov ). The US architectural services
market was valued at approximately $73.01 billion in 2023 and is projected to growat a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 4.2% from 2024 to 2030.(
grandviewresearch.com )
●Arts and Design:  There are an additional  267,200 graphic designers employed
across various industries in the US  ( bls.gov ). The U.S. industrial design market was
valued at approximately $43.37 billion in 2023 and is projected to grow to $68.45billion by 2032, exhibiting a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 5.20% duringthe forecast period. (
marketresearchfuture.com ). In 2022, the arts and cultural sector
in the United States employed nearly 5.2 million workers. ( arts.gov ) The same year,
this sector contributed approximately $1.1 trillion to the U.S. economy, accountingfor 4.3% of the gross domestic product (GDP). (
arts.gov )
●Our graduates are key contributors to the Advanced Industries , which employ
around 12.3 million workers in the U.S. ( brookings.edu ). Their expertise in 3D
printing, robotics, creative technologies, digital and interaction design, digitalservices and advanced manufacturing are central to success and continued
innovation in AI.
At the Vir ginia Tech Institute for Creativity, Arts, and Technology (ICAT) , our  Science, 
Engineering, Arts, and Design  (SEAD)  teams have been innovating in immersive 
environments such as the Cube , to explore  AI areas ranging  from  the previously  
mentioned fields of gaming, AR/VR/xR to Cybersecurity , US infrastructure  
development, smart  agriculture, and cutting  edge  immersive  audio -visual  
environments  for simulation, training, and entertainment. This work pulls AI in 


direc tions that force unprecedented , emergent  solutions that incremental AI 
development often misses.  
By leveraging  this connected knowledge, we  are poised to innovate and lead by 
example. Holistic approaches to technology, that proactively consider potential risks 
and downstream impacts, are the most reliable route to economic growth and long- term 
technological dominance.  
“[Our] nation needs some of the most fiercely competitive and proudly autonomous global institutions in the United States to coalesce around the national interests of economic prosperity and economic security.” (McLaughlin and Guile, Issues in Science and Technology , 9/22/21).  
The arts are also essential to productively harnessing AI because they introduce 
teaching , research, and methodologies radically different from those already common 
in STEM. Closing the distance between STEM and the arts has exponential rewards, 
providing from the start “unfamiliar ways of thinking about concepts” (Stanich and Harp 2019), a catalyzing difference between modern historical modes of research and integrated approaches
2. 
Here we summarize the main benefits of forging new partnerships between the arts and other fields leading in AI development and deployment : 
1.For technology and business growth: Integrating the arts into the ways that we
approach AI -related science, technology, and business will drive innovation and
emergent paradigm shifts in these and other fields of inquiry.  The divide between
STEM and the arts is artificial and creates an impediment to national leadership.
2 As explored by organizations such as the International Network of Science of Team 
Science ( INSciTS ); the National Science Foundation’s (broader impacts criterion and its 
Advancing Research Impact on Society (ARIS); a2ru, the Center for Interdisciplinary 
Research, Collaboration, Learning, and Engagement (CIRCLE) at Michigan State 
University, among many others.  On the industry side companies from Apple to Pixar to 
Electronic Arts to the Movie and Entertainment industry, have innovated because of the 
leadership of both artists and STEM employees.  Therefore, for the US to lead the world in AI innovation, we must continue to advance this necessary partnership in ways that 
we can only imagine.  


SEAD t eams are  needed to thrive in a hypercomplex world (Root -Bernstein, 
SCIENCE, July 2018). The postwar enthusiasm for the union of the arts and 
technology yielded MIT’s Center for Advanced Visual Studies (CAVS), which served to “put technology in the hands of artists  and to reinvigorate the creativity 
and human values of scientists and engineers”  (Zacharias and Wisnioski, 2016). It 
also inspired the development of the remarkable Experiments in Art and 
Technology (E.A.T.) collective, which spawned numerou s arts and technology 
projects around the world and is now integrated into Nokia Bell Labs.  It is now  
nearly  impossible  to drive forward AI industry  in almost all areas of transportation, 
healthcare, entertainment, etc., without SEAD teams.  
2. For developing effective AI tools that  enhance human abilities and produce useful 
and even transformative results . The workforce needs integrated knowledge to 
understand the context in which science and technology solutions must be 
implemented. Arts -integrated education shapes more well- rounded and more 
employable citizens, better equipped to solve wicked, contemporary problems. The arts introduce and strengthen skills in critical thinking, comfort in ambiguity, and novel approaches to problem -solving. Recently , experts at the Institute for the  
Future created a “transformation map” to analyze trends in AI based on discussions from the World Economic Forum in Davos. Their rubric showed that discussion trends mirrored many global AI concerns: generative AI+; bias and fairness in AI 
algorithms; ope rationalizing responsible AI; geopolitical impacts of AI, and AI and 
jobs. In a brief related to the project, one of the experts writes: “[I]t will be critical to 
involve people and experts from the most diverse backgrounds possible in guiding this technol ogy in ways that enhance human capabilities and lead to positive 
outcomes.” (Hollister, McGill University, 2025). The AI impacts and possibilities we face are complex, interdependent, and systemic, and our solutions must reflect this complexity. As we trai n future leaders to recognize and meet these trends and 
concerns, training in the arts offers perspectives that will be critical . 
3. For humanity: Emphasizing human intelligence, creativity, and critical thinking 
that art and artists foster is and will be critical in the Age of AI . The practice and 
experience of the performing, visual, and design arts are deeply human and 
connective. As human -AI collaborations become more commonplace, harnessing the 
generative, creative nature of the arts lights the way to a better understanding of the 


human r ole in  AI.  Recent convenings3 of artists, engineers, technologists and 
experts in many disciplines explored how the arts are central to grappling with and 
leveraging the promise of AI. A report on the Creativity, Empathy, and AI summit  
at the National Academy of S cience  entitled `Centering the Arts in the Age of AI` 
summarizes in detail challenges and opportunities. The report documents an April 2024 summit co- convened by Virginia Tech, Carnegie Mellon, Penn State and the 
Alliance for the Arts in Research universities. Th ese recommendations are based on 
the input of 65 delegates from 17 states, representing 18 universities, schools, and colleges, 5 industry organizations, and 9 non -profit  organizations or government 
agencies. Recognizing these national needs, this coalition of higher education institutions have committed to shared action that will strengthen education and workforce development, create innovation and competition, and advanc e research 
and development of AI through the Arts. We are working to build pipelines and platforms to ensure our students are ready for the AI creative workforce. These efforts can be greatly strengthened through national and local policy.  
CHALLENGES A ND OPPORTUNITY: STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS IN ARTS & AI 
Federal agencies have funded essential  but limited  work to meet the  need of arts 
integration through the Research Labs program that emphasizes novel approaches to education, innovation and entrepreneurship. However, additional capacity is needed to fully realize the potential of arts graduates in AI. Cultivating partnerships and pipelines for educational research and innovations in workforce development this would help. 
The NSF’s TIP directorate is positioned to support this, bu t prioritizes STEM research 
and activities , unintentionally excluding the important contributions that arts, design 
and creative industries bring.   
3 Creativity, Empathy, and AI  (2024 Virginia Tech, Carnegie Mellon University, and Penn 
State University), Generate I Integrate  (Rochester institute of Technology), and Teaching 
the Arts in the Age of AI  (2025, University of Maryland)  


POLIC Y NEEDS AND RECOMMENDATIONS:  
The following policy recommendations and specific actions by the federal government 
will ensure American competitiveness in AI through the Arts . All of these actions have 
impacts that are clearly measurable:  
A) Ensure the arts is represented in the national dialogue, decision making and
funding of AI;
Action 1 - Engage Expert Advisors in the Arts: Compile a database of experts at leading 
research universities and in industry that have been collaborating at the nexus of arts, design, and technology. Utilize this expert pool to inform congressional caucuses and 
federally funded workforce development and research initiatives at NSF, DOD, and 
DOE. Timeline: Immediate  
Action 2 - Foster Arts Representation in Funding and Policy:  Incentivize and encourage 
the inclusion of expert advisors in the arts to ensure the representation of artists, designers, and creative practitioners in funding review panels, advisory decisions and policy decisions that concern AI and workforce development  and AI and innovation. In 
particular, we recommend augmenting the NSF’s TIP, CISE, and ENG advisory boards and their program’s merit review panels with cross -sector arts expertise. Timeline: 
Immediate  
B) Increase support for educational training and research in arts programs to ensure
workforce readiness for AI;
Action 3 - Dedicate Stronger Federal Funding Streams: Allocate additional 
appropriations to strengthen NEA’s grant programs in research, arts education, and 
media to fund practice and research at the intersection of arts and AI and add new 
programs to the NEA's portfolio that make strategic investments in innovation and creativity around AI and the Arts.  This would 1) Build on current NEA efforts integrating arts methodologies a part of the National Science Foundation’s Directorate for Technology, Innovati on, and Partnerships (TIP); Directorate for Engineering (ENG); 
and Directorate for Computer and Information Sciences and Engineering (CISE), ; and 2) create greater awareness of ongoing NSF/NEA technology collaborations such asAlgo Arts workshops and NSF funded ICC convenings at UCLA add new programs tothe NEA's portfolio that make strategic investments in innovation and creativity aroundAI and the Arts. Build budget and incentivize non -arts focused funding agencies, like
the NSF, DOD, and DOE to foster the role of the Arts in creating innovation across
disciplines and application areas in AI.   Allocate additional appropriations to
strengthen federal grant programs in research, arts education, and media to fund
practice and research at the intersection of arts and AI. Explore feasibility to add new


NEA p rograms that make strategic investments in innovation and creativity around AI 
and the Arts. 4 Additionally, build budget and incentivize non -arts focused funding 
agencies, like the NSF, to foster the role of the Arts in creating innovation across 
disciplines in AI. To bolster this effort, connect and convene research institutions, federal agencies  and entities such as CreativIT.  Timeline: 1 Year 
C) Incentivize cross -sector partnerships that strengthen K -16 training pipelines into 
industry and meet emerging needs for innovation through and with the arts.  
Action 4 - Incentives for Arts+AI Partnerships:  Provide a refundable tax credit for 
industry investment in regional arts partnerships to incentivize cross -sector and cross-
institutional partnerships that strengthen K- 16 pipelines for AI through and with the 
Arts.  Timeline: 2 Years 
Action 5 - Incentives for Workforce Development: P rovide a refundable tax credit for 
workforce development at the intersection of AI and the Arts, to include: recruiting interns from arts programs; artist- in-residency programs; fellowship programs that 
support artists, etc.)  Timeline: 2 Years  
D) Ensure innovation while protecting creative economies.  
Action 6 - Mandate disclosure of AI Use for government -supported work:  The 
government should be able to ask questions of AI’s benefit to the American people, 
especially when incumbents and their technologies are supported with funding from 
the government 
5. We recommend making all appropriations for federal grant funding 
contingent on an AI disclosure. The NEA, NSF and other federal funding agencies 
should require that proposals discuss what forms of AI is used within the work, the implications for artists,  designers, creative practitioners, and how responsible practices 
will be used and ensure that they protect artists' work and the economic prosperity of America’s creative economies. This will give the government an actionable tool to safeguard innovation,  as well as, the American creative economies. Timeline: 2 Years  
 
4 This would: 1) Build on current NEA efforts (integrating arts methodologies a part of 
the National Science Foundation’s Directorate for Technology, Innovation, and 
Partnerships (TIP); and 2) create greater awareness of ongoing NSF/NEA technology 
collabora tions such as Algorithmic Arts workshops and NSF funded Innovation, 
Culture, and Creativity convenings at UCLA add new programs to the NEA's portfolio 
that make strategic investments in innovation and creativity around AI and the Arts.  
 
5 "When a massive incumbent comes to us asking for safety regulations, we ought to ask 
whether that safety regulation is for the benefit of our people or for the benefit of the 
incumbent." JD Vance, AI Action Summit in Paris, France, on Tuesday, Feb. 11, 2025  


Action  7 - Promote AI Literacy : As a public service, create ways to train students across 
all of the SEAD disciplines, citizens, and workers on ethical and productive use of AI 
tools and the tools themselves; and the useful role of AI in creative practice, research, writing, etc.  in partnership with government, education and industry sectors . 
Timeline: 3 Years  
References   
Hollister, M. (2025) Published, 2025. “Strategic Foresight: AI and Machine Learning” 
World Economic Forum. 
https://intelligence.weforum.org/topics/a1Gb0000000pTDREA2 . 
“Arts and Cultural Production Satellite Account, U.S. and States, 2022: New statistics for 2022; 2017—2021 Updated (March 25, 2024) 
updatedhttps://www.bea.gov/news/2024/arts -and-cultural -production -satellite -
account -us-and-states -2022  
Submissio n by R. Benjamin Knapp, Executive Di rector of the Virginia Tech  Institute 
for Creativity, A rts, and Technology  
This docum ent is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused 
by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents 
without attribution.  


