AI Action Plan 
Attn: Faisal D'Souza 
National Coordination Office 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
Re: Memo to the White House on AI Action Plan 
Overview: AI Infrastructure 
To maintain the United States’ competitive edge in artificial intelligence, it is important to invest 
in the foundational infrastructure that powers AI development: advanced semiconductor 
manufacturing and materials for next-generation data centers. Traditional data center 
architectures are straining under the exponential growth of AI workloads, requiring a shift toward 
novel materials and cooling technologies that enhance energy efficiency and computational 
capacity. The U.S. must lead in developing new materials and autonomous manufacturing 
techniques that will enable AI systems to operate faster and more efficiently while optimizing 
resource use and impact. Expanding U.S. semiconductor fabrication capabilities is critical, not 
only to reduce reliance on foreign supply chains, but also to drive innovation in chip designs 
tailored for AI-specific applications to ensure the U.S. can position itself as the premiere global 
hub for next-generation AI infrastructure. Furthermore, the next frontier in semiconductor manufacturing lies beyond Earth’s atmosphere. 
Space-based manufacturing presents an opportunity to produce higher-purity materials and 
essentially defect-free chips by leveraging the ultra-high vacuum of space, unlocking 
breakthroughs in AI hardware performance. By utilizing high-cadence, reusable commercial 
space capabilities, U.S. industry can establish orbital semiconductor production facilities that 
push the limits of chip efficiency and durability. A national AI infrastructure strategy must 
prioritize investments in both terrestrial and space-based semiconductor manufacturing - an 
area the People’s Republic of China is already trying to gain advantage in - ensuring the U.S. 
remains a leader across the entire value chain of AI-driven innovations to promote economic 
competitiveness and underpin U.S. national security. 


WH AI Action Plan Recommendations: 
Advance AI-Specific Semiconductor Manufacturing in the U.S. 
●Expand government funding to support R&D in manufacturing next-generation
semiconductor materials with inherently higher thermal conductivity.
Invest in Next-Generation AI Data Centers 
●Fund research into alternative materials for AI training and inferencing workloads.
●Develop national AI data center standards to improve efficiency, optimize resource
management, and enhance cybersecurity.
●Partner with leading technology firms and energy companies to create durable,
high-performance AI data centers that integrate flexible energy sources.
Expand U.S. Leadership in Space-Based Semiconductor Manufacturing 
●Launch a national initiative to support orbital semiconductor manufacturing through the
creation of a coalition among private space companies, data center operators, chip
makers, and SIA members.●Fund pilot programs for orbital fabrication of AI chips, testing their performance and
scalability for commercial production.
Secure AI Supply Chains  
●Strengthen U.S. semiconductor supply chains through strategic stockpiling of critical
raw materials and rare earth elements.
●Recognize space-based semiconductor manufacturing capabilities are crucial to
strengthening the US Industrial Base, which includes the production of microelectronic
materials essential for advanced AI systems.
On behalf of the Besxar team, we are inspired by the White House leadership in developing an 
AI Action Plan and look forward to contributing however we can to ensure Am erican leadership.  
Submitted by:  
Ashley Pilipiszyn, Founder/CEO Besxar 
The Foundry 
1055 Thomas Jef ferson St NW 
Washington, D.C. 20007 


