From: Beth Haney
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, February 15, 2025 2:12:17 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Dear OSTP team,
First, I am thrilled that David O. Sacks is leading the discussions oncryptocurrency and AI - there is no one better to serve in this role. He hasbeen an amazing influence on many people and industries.
That being said, please remember to include the AI impact(s) on health
care and healthcare delivery. While there are important discovery,diagnostic, and outcome advances using AI in health care, the involvementof nurses, nurse practitioners (NP), and physicians is crucial to ensure thecompleteness of assessments and diagnoses. AI lacks the emotional andsubtle cue acknowledgment that only human interactions currentlypossess.
Nurse practitioners, physicians, and nurses should remain on the front
lines of any discussions relating to AI and health care. Nurses and NPsbridge the gap between patient care and technology.
 AI-driven clinical-
driven support systems can assist with early disease detection, riskassessment, and treatment planning, but they need input from nurses andNPs to ensure they align with clinical workflows and best practices. NPs,with their expertise in diagnosis and holistic care, can help train AI toprioritize meaningful alerts rather than overwhelming clinicians withunnecessary data.
Nurses and NPs are excellent at assessing patients for subtle cues due to
their training, clinical approach, and patient-centered care model.
 Nurses
and NPs are trained to assess the whole patient, not just the disease or
symptoms. They consider physical, emotional, psychological, social, andenvironmental factors that may affect health.
 This broader perspective
allows them to pick up on subtle changes in demeanor, non-verbal cues,or minor physiological shifts that could indicate an underlying issue.
Thank you for your consideration.
Beth Haney, DNP, FNP-C, FAANP, FAAN
Doctor of Nursing Practice, Nurse Practitioner
Founder, Luxe Aesthetic Center, Inc.Former Mayor and Councilwoman of Yorba Linda, California


www.luxemedspa.net  
www.yorbalindaca.gov  
This electronic communication and any files transmitted with it are intended for the named recipient(s) only and may
contain confidential, proprietary or legally privileged information. If you have received this message in error, pleaseadvise the sender by reply email, and delete this message and any attachments. Unauthorized individuals or entitiesare not permitted access to this information. Any dissemination, distribution, disclosure, or copying of this informationis unauthorized and strictly prohibited.
 
    
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


