From: BleedingHearts Admin
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 11:35:49 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
From Bleeding Hearts, an organization supporting humanitarian discourse, including
environmental and cultural sustainability:
While OpenAI treats educating its algorithm as a unique undertaking, US educational
institutions have long used copyrighted material through legal licensing to teach studentsacross the nation. Why should an AI company be an exception to these established practices &laws? Legal & financial recognition of intellectual property in the US has facilitatedinnovation, artistry, & expansive ideas that have revolutionized lives. While OpenAI claims todo the same, it also claims it cannot achieve its goals without theft—neither throughcollaboration nor legal licensing. While OpenAI seeks to add value to their product, they seemto seek to exploit the millions of creators & companies that have established their own valuewhile respecting the current trademark, copyright, and licensing laws. Why should thegovernment be responsible for OpenAI's failings? Considering OpenAI cannot achieve itsgoals within the means of the law, it suggests that the business and concept are not sufficientlydeveloped for its purported application. A government "bail-out" of ANY kind to START abusiness does not bode well for the future prospects of said business. 
We have shared these words with others in the hopes of encouraging discourse and comment
on this issue. However, we would like to add to this statement, addressing the USgovernment's concerns re: AI dominance in the global arena:
 
The current product touted as "generative AI" is as undercooked as cryptocurrency. TheEuropean Union has already recognized how current technology is poorly developed to sustainitself without cannibalizing industries and undermining market assets, including properfinancial exchange as well as conventional competition and innovation. While companies suchas Microsoft and Google have demonstrated interest in AI, their own established products(particularly search and mail clients) have demonstrated that their algorithms have sufficientaccess WITHIN THE TERMS OF THE LAW to not only adequately serve the populace, butinspire greater innovation and application on the developers' parts. In light of such a traditionof American engineering, the request from AI companies to preclude the law feels like arequest to the government to wipe their butts, to turn in incomplete work and get a pat on theback. If a company cannot afford a collaboration with an established library of works orindividual licensing agreements, then how is their financial mismanagement the government'sproblem? If the US wishes to achieve AI dominance, not indulging these companies andinvesting in labs that continue to pursue AI development within the means of the law insteadseems the best course of action.
Thank you,
Bleeding Hearts
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government


in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


