March 14, 2025 
NaƟonal CoordinaƟng Oﬃce 
AI AcƟon Plan AƩn: Faisal D'Souza 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
Dear Mr. Faisal: 
Bloom Energy respectfully submits the following comments for the Request for Information released 
February 6, 2025, in support of Executive Order 14179 (Removing Barriers to American Leadership in 
Artificial Intelligence). 
Bloom Energy fully supports policies that unleash American innovation in the development of AI. The 
United States must have a robust, resilient and modern electric delivery system to build the 
infrastructure needed to prevail in the AI Race against China. 
Success will require an “All of the Above” approach to energy delivery, incorporating innovative 
solutions such as onsite distributed energy resources (DER) like stationary fuel cells and microgrids. 
Any final AI Action Plan must address urgent and timely power needs, including traditional and 
innovative utility approaches alongside DERs and microgrids. Bloom Energy is a U.S.-based manufacturer of solid oxide fuel cell (“SOFC”) technology.  Our SOFCs 
utilize an electro-chemical process that uses natural gas and other feedstocks to generate electricity 
without combustion. Stationary onsite fuel cells can reduce load on the electricity system and provide 
much needed grid capacity.  In addition to avoiding line losses and other risks created by electric 
transmission, these distributed energy resources can simultaneously power critical facilities, like 
traditional data centers and larger hyperscale data centers, assets critical to winning the AI Race. 
Bloom Energy is committed to manufacturing in the United States and has invested heavily in 
capacity expansion. In August 2022, the company unveiled a state-of-the-art 164,000 square foot 
multi-gigawatt manufacturing facility in Fremont, California, which represents a $200 million 
investment, with the potential to create 400 new jobs. The company also operates a manufacturing 
facility in Newark, Delaware, where nearly 800 employees have assembled and shipped more than 
20,000 Bloom Energy servers since 2013. Key to both facilities are nearly one thousand U.S. suppliers 
of components and services. 
The fourth industrial revolution is underway, fueled by rapid advancements in AI and cloud 
computing. The rapid deployment of new data center capacity in the U.S. is a strategic priority, but 
there is a major bottleneck: power availability. Demand for power is only growing, while the electric 
grid is aging and new grid projects face permitting, transmission, distribution, and supply chain 
challenges. 


After 20 years of flat demand,1 U.S. power needs are predicted to rise by 83 terawatt-hours (TWh) in 
20252 – equivalent to powering an additional 7.7 million homes.3  The U.S. is expected to see the 
highest share of new data centers outside China. Since 2020, the U.S. colocation data center market 
has doubled, driven by digitization, cloud, and AI.4 To power this, data by 2030 could require 8-12% of 
the total U.S. demand compared to 3-4% today.5 
Utilities face bottlenecks with transporting power via transmission and distribution infrastructure. As 
a result, grid interconnection takes longer, and capacity is increasingly expensive. If the U.S. continues 
building high-voltage transmission at its current rate, it will take at least 80 years to deliver what we 
need over the next decade.6 In fact, investment in new transmission by investor-owned utilities 
decreased from 2021 to 2023 when capital expenditures dropped from approx. $9.2 billion to $8.8 
billion.7 
To meet energy capacity needs the U.S. must promote technologies that expedite delivery of power 
(“Time to Power”). Routine grid upgrades needed to provide the required capacity to run new data 
centers on average take 48-60 months, whereas SOFCs can be operational in a fraction of that. 
Onsite generators partner closely with utilities to reduce burdens on the collective power grid and 
transmission infrastructure. Historically, data centers have mostly used onsite power for backup. But 
data center and hyperscale developers have noted grid challenges and are increasingly turning to 
onsite power as a primary source. In January, President Trump highlighted his preference for onsite 
power to bolster AI infrastructure in a videoconference speech to the World Economic Forum. 
To remain competitive in the AI Race, we must increase and incentivize the use one of the nearest 
term, most reliable, resilient onsite sources: domestically manufactured stationary fuel cells and 
microgrids. The AI Action Plan should include this recommendation. 
SOFC Energy Servers provide mission critical reliability with no downtime for maintenance and are 
proven resilient through outages from hurricanes, earthquakes, winter storms, forest fires, other  
1 Grid Strategies, “Strategic Industries Surging: Driving U.S. Power Demand” 
2 International Energy Agency, “Electricity Mid-Year Update” 
3 U.S. Energy Information Administration, “How much electricity does an American home use?” 
4 Forbes, “Data Centers At The Heart Of The AI And Digital Economy Surge” 
5 Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, “2024 United States Data Center Energy”; Goldman Sachs, “Generational 
growth: AI, data centers and the coming U.S. power demand surge”; McKinsey & Company, “How data centers and the 
energy sector can sate AI’s hunger for power” 
6 U.S. Department of Energy, “National Transmission Needs Study”; Americans for a Clean Energy Grid, “Transmission 
Projects Ready to Go: Plugging Into America’s Untapped Renewable Resources”; C Three Group via Robert Bryce, “Out 
of Transmission” 
7 Edison Electric Institute, EEI Industry Capital Expenditures with Functional Detail (Oct. 2021, Sept. 2022, and Sept. 
2023). 


extreme weather conditions, and natural disasters.  In 2023, the average availability of Bloom 
Energy’s fleet was 99.995%. Bloom has deployed more than 160 microgrids to date and our systems 
rode through 436 power outages carrying a total of 122,171 MWh of energy demand over 597 outage 
hours in 2022 alone.8 Bloom’s technology provides substantial criteria pollutant, water, and 
greenhouse gas emission benefits, reducing bureaucratic delays associated with local air permitting. 
Federal policies such as a 30% Investment Tax Credit for the purchase of fuel cells have helped keep 
this technology cost-competitive with cheaper but inferior fuel cells made in China.  Unfortunately, 
efforts to ban the efficient use of natural gas from energy generation produced a regulation that 
made fuel cells ineligible for the ITC as of January 1, 2025. This is resulting in an unnecessary cost 
increase to deliver onsite energy for customers wishing to use U.S. natural gas as the feedstock for 
their domestically manufactured fuel cells. 
Any final AI Action Plan should recommend that the National Economic Council work with Congress, 
and the Departments of Treasury and Energy to ensure U.S. manufactured fuel cells that efficiently 
utilize our country’s vast supply of natural gas are part of a mix of onsite generation resources 
needed to secure American dominance in the AI Race. 
Our country is poised to enter a new era of technological innovation and transformation. But as with 
any opportunity, obstacles must be overcome. In this case, our challenge is to provide the electricity 
required to grow a new and dynamic sector of the economy, and to do so with American-made 
energy solutions that will not generate exorbitant utility bills for families. The United States has a 
history of capturing such moments. Rising to the occasion is part of our DNA. With the right policies in 
place, we can not only lead the AI/data center revolution ahead of China, we can power it as well. 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on this Request for Information. We appreciate your 
consideration of our submission and welcome follow-up discussions or clarifications. Please contact 
me directly for any questions or if additional information is needed. 
This document is approved for public dissemination as it contains no business-proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
Sincerely, 
James Roth 
Head of Global Policy 
Bloom Energy 8 Bloom Energy, How Bloom Reduces Emissions  (July 2024), https://www.bloomenergy.com/wp-content/uploads/bloom-
energy-how-bloom-reduces-emissions-technical-note.pdf. 


