March 14 , 2025 
W-ESMC-REG-25-KC-14
Mr. Faisal D’Souza 
National Coordination Office 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue Alexandria, VA 22314 
Subject:  National Science Foundation Request for Information on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
Dear Mr. D’Souza,  
This document is  approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
The B oeing Company appreciates the opportunity to provide comments to the Office of Science 
and Technology Policy (OSTP) and the National Science Foundation (NSF) on its “ Request for 
Information (RFI) on the Development of an Artificial Intel ligence (AI) Action Plan”. Boeing views 
the action plan as an important document that can solidify the United States' position as a leader in usable AI -based systems and address key problems for our country.  
While the development of AI methods and systems  for low-risk tasks and applications has 
proliferated over the last two decades, developing systems, models and methods that address high-stakes problems is complex, requires significant infrastructure, lacks clear regulatory guidance, and is difficult to validate.  
There fore, our proposal will be centered on technical, mathematical, and infrastructure ideas 
that will enable our country to reduce the complexity of developing safe and reliable AI -enabled 
aerospace systems. 
1. Real -world Environments for Advancing Research on AI-Enabled Aerospace
Systems
We pr opose the funding and development of real -world and surrogate environments in
which AI researchers and engineers can prototype, deploy, test and analyze and testtheir code, methods, techniques and sub -systems.
We pr opose the development of state-of -the-art real -world environments for:
-Aviation and aerospace - for advancing research in autonomy and advanced
advisory systems for pilots, air traffic controllers, and aviation operators for all
phases of flight , building on our experience in developing autonomous prototypeKara Charles  The Boeing Company  
Director , Regulatory Issues Management  P.O. Box 3707, MC 081-60 
Safety, Security & Airworthiness  Seattle, WA 98124- 2207 


aircraft that make decisions, advise and perform autonomously during taxi, 
approach, landing, take -off, and cruise. 
-Precision aerospace manufacturing – for advancing research and rapid testing  of
ideas of manufacturing processes that require high precision, interaction withhumans, validation, and certification. In particular, we are interested in integrating
perception and reliable human interaction into manufacturing processes for the
detecti on of small objects, advising on anomalous situations, and warning on safety
concerns that may occur.
2. Re al-World Challenge Problems
Solutions for tasks that require high -stakes decisions and execution in the real -world
show a significant acceleration an d maturation when challenge problems are set up in
the real -world and when the AI system developers are offered a setting in which their
systems compete against each other with no supervision from the developers. Real -
world problems allow researchers and engineers to test and deploy technologies beyond
simulated and lab environments, leading to robust and generalizable technologies thatwill be transitioned into value-added products.  The DARPA Learning Applied to Ground
Robots challenge tasks and the DARPA  Grand Challenges from the 2004-2008 period
opened a path to the development of autonomous cars, through a fast exposure of theresearch-hard problems that needed to be addressed (such as real -time perception and
planning under uncertainty).
In general, for advancing AI methods towards AI engineering methods, prototyping
advances much faster when a practically relevant challenge problem (and environment)is addressed, and the research focuses on optimizing constraints that matter for thatproblem.
We p ropose the development of challenge problems for decision making in flight, air
traffic control, as well as perception and decision making for manufacturing operations.
3.Reasoning for Semantic Understanding
Reason ing – logical or probabilistic – is an int rinsic component of any complex decision-
making system and it is central to human intelligence. Reasoning has been at the centerof AI research for decades, however, reasoning in high -dimensional spaces (such as the
ones that modern machine learning method s excel in) is inefficient.
Reas oning refers to the capability of deriving new information content based on existing
information and knowledge. Learned models and generative models alone, can inferconcepts only in the regions in which data/observations are available.
Meanw hile, safety critical operations and systems require reasoning and acting in
regions with low density data and regions of no data.


There fore, methods for computationally efficient reasoning are essential for high-stakes 
applications . Formal probabilistic and logical approaches for reasoning offer semantic 
interpretations and explainability, which is crucial to safety critical AI engineering 
applications. Current AI approaches are based on the data -intensive connectionist 
approach that lacks semantic understanding and rigorous reasoning. Techniques that combine fast (e.g. neural machine learning approaches) and slow reasoning (logical and 
probabilistic methods), following the approach pioneered by Kahneman [1,2] provide 
foundational elements for this challenge. Combining probabilistic, logic, and neural approaches, referred to as neuro -symbolic AI, offers the robust way to build semantically 
sound systems required in safety -critical domains.  
Proba bilistic reasoning and inference on situations and inputs for which little or no data 
is available, has received very little attention, and is an important requirement for robust operations of AI -enabled aerospace systems.  
We pr opose additional temporal event reasoning research. 
[1] Daniel Kahn eman (2011). Thinking, Fast and Slow. Macmillan.
[2] M. Bergamaschi Ganapini, L. Horesh, L. Lamb, A. Loreggia, N. Mattei, F. Rossi, B.Srivastava and K. B. Venable. Proceedings of Thinking Fast and Slow and OtherCognitive Theories in AI. Arlington, VA , AAAI 2022 Fall Symposium.
4.Long-term Me mory, Planning and Plan Execution
Insects, b irds, and animals with brains of several orders of magnitudes smaller than
human brains build nests and store food and return to them months or years after thefirst time at that location. In an AI -relevant way, these animals can plan and execute
plans to reach those locations with tens of millions of intervening and potentiallydistracting sensory inputs/tokens before recalling these locations and navigating to them.These living analogues compute and operate efficiently in a low -power regime. The
construction of such systems would lead to breakthroughs in low -power non -volatile
memory computing devices that would be efficiently deployed on edge applications.Further, researching on how to build long -term persistent memory devices that can plan,
and act in multi -agent scenarios is highly relevant to future strategic applications in
autonomous domains. These devices need to be available and operational in low -
connectivity, air-gapped, cloud-independent and constrained environments.
We p ropose additional research in AI -enabled aerospace systems that have such
capabilities.  Computationally, these systems will require:
a.Memory  – for efficiently summarizing and storing the history of past interaction into a
representation and employing it in context;
b.Planning – for devising a set of actions for reaching a long -range goal; and
c.Plan Execution – for choosing the next actions (or tokens) deliberately to achieve
the goal or goals safely.


5.Integration of Ge nerative Models into Systems, with Risk Guarantees
The la st decade has provided us a wealth of generative AI approaches. These methods
can be employed in the design and in the implementation of high-stakes systems, when
integrated with other perception and sensing, actuation, expert interfaces.
In particular, generative methods offer a unique opportunity for probabilistically
predicting intent and future states of the environment, a function that is required for
advanced automation and autonomous systems.
We pr opose addressing the fundamental research questions that will enable (A) the
design of systems that have generative sub-systems and (B) generative models to be
integrated int o high-stakes systems, such that risk guarantees can be estimated for the
performance of the system.
To add ress these goals, we propose research on extending and developing a formal risk
assessment of the system.
6.Robust Hum an-AI-Enabled System Teams
AI-ena bled aerospace systems support complex tasks in conjunction with a human
user/expert.
High Reliability Orga nization (HRO) research (published by Todd LaPorte, Gene Rochlin
and Karlene Roberts in the 1996 -1999 period) has analyzed and provided the base for
robust human team decision making. We can derive the goals for human -computer or
human – AI-Enabled System teams that are required to perform in safety critical
environments and execute high -stakes tasks.
As human -in-the-loop models become more prevalent in AI technologies, Robust
Human -AI systems, developed under the HRO principles can lead to improved
technologies for monitoring and oversight needed in complex decision-makingscenarios.
We p ropose additional research on the topics below to advance robust human-computer
teaming:
-Joint Situational Awareness
-Detecting and Handling Anomalies
-Detecting and Processing Near Misses
-Explaining Anomalies and Near Misses
-Improvising Solutions


7.New Mathematics and  Novel Fundamental Mathematical and Probabilistic
Approaches  for Handling and Analysis of Anomalies and Rare Events
Standard statistical methods and approaches currently employed for the analysis of the
performance of decision systems fall short in assessing the performance on anomalous
observations/situations and extremely rare events. Averages, means, PR and ROC
analyses are not sufficient.
We p ropose the development of a research track that develops novel mathematical and
probabilistic metrics and tools for anomalous events.
Thank y ou for your consideration of our input. Please direct any comments or questions to  
Sincerely, 
Kara C harles  
Director, Regulatory Issues Management  
Safety, Security & Airworthiness 


