From: Brad Duke
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 12:13:02 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by thegovernment in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
My name is Brad Duke. I am a professional artist working in the entertainment industry.
 
Allowing OpenAI and Google to train on anything is a breach of copyright, and will not, as the
plan claims, "secure a brighter future for all Americans." It will secure a profitable future forsome large tech companies, and some of their leaders, while the workers and generalAmericans suffer.
Allowing this to go forward will hurt workers like me, and will lead to even more layoffs
than
 are happening right now. With AI as it currently is, thousands of jobs are disappearing,
with layoffs affecting thousands of people, including many that I know. This isn't a joke. Peopleare losing their jobs because of this. Both on the artistic, and more technical side of things.Giving AI a blank check will have a much bigger impact, and will lead to many more jobsdisappearing.
 
Individuals have created magnificent things over the years, whether that's art, technology, orsomething else. Big tech companies have also boomed for years as many coders, artists,developers, and others have put so much effort into various companies, products,experiences, and art. Now AI tech companies want to be able to steal all of that withoutcompensating those who own what they take, and then use it to replace the very people thatcreated everything they stole. This is immoral technological predation. China may do that, butChina is not a nation "of the people, by the people, and for the people." China is predatory,and gives no concern to its people; it dominates its people, chewing them up and spittingthem out. Letting big tech companies have open range over everything is allowing blatantbreach of copyright--allowing theft of intellectual property. This will reduce jobs, breachintellectual property security, and be a kick in the teeth to anyone that has ever, or will evercreate something.
Do not allow this. AI should be carefully checked, monitored, and responsibly created. Big tech
using the fear of China to accelerate the means to trample everything in its path is deplorable.


Brad Duke
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


