From: Brandon Grove-Howard
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 6:39:15 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
To those it concerns,
I am not going to waste more  time on this than you likely will throwing this out. The United
States government as it is currently organized is clearly not interested in listening to the values
of the American people, despite the fact that their power comes from those same people. That,however, will not stop me from voicing my own oppositions.
AI and companies who program and produce mass learning software have no right to ignore
the law. "Burdensome" laws are there to protect the people, and progress has no place whenthe people are used as its stepping stones.
 
I implore you to cease all attempts to allow these groups to circumvent the laws in place,which are already outdated and allowing them to run rampant. It is the people who sufferwithout oversight on AI development, and the rampant scraping of data for machine learningsoftware without consent of those people is not only theft, but it will only cheapen the impactof artificial Intelligence in the long-run. Machine learning tends to a homogenization ofcontent, as it aims to boil down hundreds of thousands of points into a code-based system ofaverages.
This is not innovation, it is mere repetition. A system of averages that will only cause
stagnation in ideas. We have already seen it conflate true and false information into ameaningless mess of words, and replace art and photography with nonsensical masses of fleshand clashing non-ideas. If left unimpeded (as you are flagrantly proposing) endangers theentirety of the internet as a source of information and connection, reducing it to a sterile noiseof computer generated slop.
The death of the internet is the modern burning of the Library of Alexandria, and if you have
any remaining shred of integrity as a power in government, you will force these companies tobe responsible with their products and programs, as, let us be honest, they will not do so oftheir own accord.
My personal faith in the American government falls away with every day. I would love to be
proven wrong. Do what you were put into power to do, and protect people, not computerprograms or companies.
Best,
 
Brandon Howard  
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.


If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


