From: Brandon Kitterman
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 11:36:14 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
To policymakers and advisors at NITRD, NCO, NSF, and OSTP -
I am an independent musical artist in the composition, recording,  and performance fields. I am
also a music educator. My livelihood depends on my ability to compose, produce, and perform
original musical works, i.e. create intellectual property to which I retain rights throughout mylifetime.
That intellectual property, if appropriated and incorporated into AI models, would be
effectively stolen to train an algorithm to create similar works at a tiny fraction of the effort,cost, and time. The value of my original works would then necessarily diminish, as would thevalue of any further works I create in the future. That value would be unfairly transferred tolarge companies that own algorithms but not the content they trained on, as their AI can nowreplace my works with works generated from the bits of work they originally stole frommyself and my fellow creators. My livelihood and my life’s pursuits would be irreversiblydamaged if not destroyed entirely.
AI policy must, therefore, protect and fairly compensate those who made generative AI
models possible. Yes, this includes people who developed the algorithms and other technologynecessary for it to function. But how can it not include those whose intellectual property formthe basis for its training? If these creators are cut out of the deal then only the very few whodeveloped the technology will stand to gain on the backs of the very many whose property thattechnology exploits without compensation.
As a concrete policy I suggest that AI algorithms be disallowed from training on or otherwise
incorporating any intellectual property (a “work”) currently under copyright protection,without obtaining the consent of its creator and any other applicable rights-holders. Thisconsent should come with a guarantee and practical method of fair compensation for the use ofthe work in any AI-generated works at the time of generation, and royalties for any furtherdisplay, performance, or other use of the work - including use of a derivative work in furthertraining of AI algorithms. Admittedly this burden may be a large one, but it is necessary fortechnology developers to shoulder it. They are the ones that want to use and stand to gain fromthe intellectual property of others, so they must make it possible to do so in a fair way.
Furthermore, transparency is of great concern in this process. AI policy should require the
ability to track how a creator’s work was used, both in training a given algorithm and ingenerating derivative works. Without this transparency it will be all too easy for powerfulplayers (i.e. AI algorithm owners and even large intellectual property rights-holders) to takeadvantage of those less powerful, who will almost certainly be independent creators.
 
In the current culture and market of music, to disseminate music that I create necessitatesuploading my works to the internet via music streaming services, social media, and otherplatforms. I have done so many times with dozens of works that I created either alone or in


collaboration with my peers, and those have been streamed millions of times. My work has
also been synched with other works such as television shows that are uploaded and streamed. I
have no assurance that AI models have not already scraped and trained on my intellectualproperty. AI designers have a responsibility to account for and compensate intellectualproperty owners for what they have already taken without permission.
I have trained, studied, and practiced for years to be able to create art that is meaningful and
beneficial to others.
 I dedicate my time, intellect, and other resources to creating the best art I
can, and making it available and attractive to people for them to enjoy. My work is no lessvaluable than that of any other person who strives to contribute a good or service to others foruse and consumption. I deserve to be fairly compensated just as they do. Please don’t allowpoor AI policy to ring the death-knell on the careers and livelihoods of human creators.
With hope,Brandon Robert KittermanThis document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the governmentin developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


