To: Faisal D’Souza, NCO 
Office of Science and Technology Policy 
Executive Office of the President 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 2120 Fillmore St. #1007 
San Francisco, CA 94115 
www.brightband.com  
Re: Request for Information (RFI) on Development of an AI Action Plan - 3/15/25 
Summary  
Brightband strongly supports OSTP’s efforts to plan America’s leadership in AI. 
Weather forecasting is critical for national security, a stronger economy, and more 
competitive military. Europe’s weather forecasting model has become the most accurate 
global standard. AI for Weather Prediction (AIWP) is the biggest step forward in 
forecasting since satellites and supercomputers in the 1960s. China1 is planning an 
operational AIWP forecasting system and Europe already has one. The USA does not 
yet have an operational AIWP model, and needs one soon to lead in AI and Weather. 
To ensure America achieves global leadership in AI for Weather Prediction the 
administration should support an “AIWP Moonshot”: 
1.NOAA should deliver an operational AIWP model for global medium-term
forecasting, with performance competitive to ECMWF’s AIFS, by July 4, 2026.
2.NOAA should source the latest AIWP/data technology from private industry
partners via acquisition, licensing, or co-development.
3.NOAA, NASA, DoD, DoE, and other agencies should coordinate and leverage
the USA’s unparalleled Earth Observation capabilities to provide the world’s
leading real-time datastream of weather observations for AIWP modeling.
About Brightband 
Brightband is a leading AI weather forecasting model developer, an American startup, 
founded by a team of serial entrepreneurs in the AI and weather space. Brightband is 
the first private company to develop a global, operational weather modeling system 
forecasting directly from weather observations. Brightband is helping NOAA accelerate 
AIWP by re-processing weather observation datasets to be ready for the cloud and AI. Opportunity 
USA GDP fluctuates by >3% annually due to weather (almost $1Trillion)2. ⅓ of the USA 
economy is weather dependent3. Extreme weather caused $396Billion of damage in the 
3 Table 2, Opportunities and priorities in a new era for weather and climate services (Dutton, 2002) 2 US economic sensitivity to weather variability (Lazo et al, 2011) 1 Bloomberg, China's AI Weather Forecasting Goals Face National Security Test, 2025 
1 


USA in 20174. Weather forecasting is crucial for the military, national security, farmers, 
supply chain operations, space leadership, and saving lives amid disasters. 
As a global superpower fielding a military with global reach, the United States relies on 
having the fastest and most reliable weather forecasts as a critical pillar of safeguarding 
its national security. Our military history demonstrates weather forecasting's strategic 
importance. Fog helped conceal Washington's troops during the evacuation of Brooklyn 
and a nor'easter prevented the Royal Navy from entering the East River. President 
Eisenhower's decision to delay D-Day due to bad weather saved thousands of Allied 
lives and helped secure victory in World War II. Advanced forecasting of the 
unpredictable weather in the mountains helped save countless lives in Afghanistan. It 
was critical to predict sandstorms and heat in the Middle East. Weather significantly 
impacts modern military operations, affecting every aspect from planning and logistics 
to execution and outcomes, and can be leveraged for tactical advantage, such as 
influencing enemy behavior or delaying/canceling operations. From making logistics and 
operations resilient despite tropical cyclones in the Pacific to pinpointing when cloud 
decks will break for aerial reconnaissance and support, sustained improvement in 
weather forecasting through innovation and AI leadership is key to American military 
competitiveness and national security. Today the US Air Force – who are the primary 
provider of weather forecast data in support of the American warfighter – has built its 
current NWP capabilities on top of the UK Met Office’s modeling infrastructure, the 
Unified Model. Weather is also key to promoting America’s prosperity and commercial competitiveness. 
It is the most commonly cited external factor affecting changes in financial results, 
according to filed reports. The United States has 900 million acres of farm land that face 
a unique variety of weather extremes. Weather forecasting is key to optimizing 
agricultural productivity. Farmers need to know when to buy seeds, plant, fertilize, 
irrigate, and harvest, informed by predictions of sunshine, rain, frost, wind etc. to 
maximize efficiency. Energy infrastructure safety and efficiency are dependent on 
weather. Winds or temperature extremes can cause infrastructure to fail, wildfires or 
blackouts. Energy efficiency planning is largely informed by weather. Solar and wind 
generation depend on weather predictions, and energy demand varies with the 
heating/cooling required based on temperature changes. America’s supply chain and 
transportation safety and efficiency rely on aviation plotting safe trajectories through 
predicted clouds, ice, wind and weather hazards, trucks avoiding icy roads, and ships 
steering clear of big waves. America’s retailers rely on weather forecasting to know 
whether to sell hot apple pie or ice cream. For timing safe space launches, where 4 NCEI, U.S. Billion-Dollar Weather and Climate Disasters, 2025 
2 


America is the world leader, it is critical to have reliable forecasts of temperature and 
wind extremes, or lightning conditions. 
AI can reduce losses due to weather disasters. In September 2024 Helene rapidly 
intensified to a Category 4 hurricane and left a path of destruction 500 miles long across 
Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, and Tennessee, killing >230 
people, causing over $50Billion of damage. Historical improvements in forecasting just 
from 2007-2020, which enable earlier and more targeted predictions and preparations, 
are estimated to reduce each hurricane’s cost by 19% on average, about $5 billion per 
hurricane.5 We need further weather forecasting improvements to track hurricanes’ 
paths and intensity earlier and more accurately, to save lives and avoid damage to 
unprepared assets. AI has shown it can predict hurricane paths more accurately, 
forecasting that Hurricane Beryl would hit Texas not Mexico (as traditional NWP models 
predicted) 4 days out6, providing valuable extra time to prepare to save lives and reduce 
damage. AI Weather Prediction (AIWP) 
AI has brought a revolution in weather, and AI Weather Prediction (AIWP) is now faster, 
cheaper and more accurate than the traditional physics-based Numerical Weather 
Prediction. It is the biggest improvement in weather forecasting since satellites and 
supercomputers in the 1960s. The core of traditional weather forecasting is a 
technology called “numerical weather prediction” (NWP), which forms the foundation of 
nearly all weather products and services provided by both the government and private 
companies. Continuously developed since the 1950s, NWP models encode the physical 
and fluid dynamical equations which describe how our atmosphere works, and 
numerically solve them to predict how the weather will evolve. There has been steady 
progress in improving forecast skill such that today’s 4-day forecast is as accurate as 
the next-day forecast 30 years ago7. These improvements in forecast skill translate into 
hundreds of billions of dollars saved annually through improved industry resilience to 
hazardous weather, and value for national security interests operating globally. Still, we 
want to make better decisions from weather predictions which are more accurate, more 
confident, and provide skill at longer lead times. For example, uncertainty in hurricane 
intensity and track on the Florida coast can restrict the window available for local 
governments to mobilize evacuations and prepare their emergency responses to just 
1-2 days ahead of landfall, which makes large evacuations challenging.7 Our World in Data, Weather forecasts have become much more accurate; we now need to make them 
available to everyone, 2024 6 New York Times, Artificial Intelligence Gives Weather Forecasters a New Edge, 2024 5 Molin and Rudik, The Social Value of Hurricane Forecasts, 2023 
3 


NWP utilizes “data assimilation” (DA) to process observations from satellites, aircraft, 
weather balloons, and ground observation stations into a comprehensive state of the 
atmosphere. In addition to launching its own observation platforms and leveraging ones 
operated by other federal agencies (in particular, NASA and the DoD), NOAA acquires 
data for assimilation from private vendors through a Commercial Data Program8 (CDP). 
Over the past few years, tens of millions of dollars has been invested by NOAA into 
American companies to commercialize and deploy satellites and other platforms for 
weather observation, creating jobs across the country, and invigorating a competitive 
commercial weather observation industry. USA contributes ~25% of the meteorological satellite data that is shared by countries 
globally through the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), 3% of globally-shared 
land surface meteorological observations and 12% of upper air radiosonde profiles9. All 
countries rely on sharing others’ observations to know what weather is coming over the 
horizon. Not all of these data are leveraged for traditional NWP-based forecasting. For 
example, many satellite photos have clouds in them, and most of these are rejected for 
use by traditional DA and NWP. In contrast, the AI community is rapidly developing new 
techniques which will benefit from these observations and use them more efficiently. In 
addition, the USA has large and innovative commercial observation and data 
technology industries. American leadership in observational data availability and 
capability can drive AIWP leadership. One important way that NWP and DA are employed is to create historical replays of the 
weather called “reanalysis” – large (a few petabytes), 3D “video-like” datasets of dozens 
of important weather variables through the depth of the atmosphere. While NOAA has 
produced such datasets in the past, the most commonly used such dataset available 
today is the ECMWF Reanalysis v5 (ERA5). Reanalysis datasets are invaluable for 
calibrating weather forecast models; they are widely employed by the private sector to 
develop statistical or AI-based corrections to improve forecast skill, alongside real-world 
observations. But ERA5 highlights a concerning trend in the weather modeling world: 
that the costs to produce and run NWP systems as we chase ever-increasing forecast 
skill and model resolution are steeply, exponentially, and unsustainably increasing10. 
On top of its immense business and research value, ERA5 produced an unintended 
win. By compressing decades worth of details about the atmosphere into a video-like 
format, it presented to the AI community a unique dataset ideally suited for building a 
new type of AI-based weather forecast model. Previously, AI models had been used in 
limited ways for “nowcasting” or extrapolation of radar and satellite imagery. They 
10 ECMWF, What next for supercomputing in weather forecasting?, 2016 9 Phys.org, US 'vital' for forecasting global weather extremes: UN, 2025 8 NOAA Office of Space Commerce, NOAA Commercial Data Program 
4 


 
lacked an adequate training dataset to tackle NWP-like weather forecasting. ERA5 – 
which provided a high-quality and complete replay of the atmosphere – simplified the 
forecast problem into an AI engineering one: Given the last two “frames” of weather, can 
we predict the next one? Rolling this process forward in time by feeding the model’s 
predictions of the next timestep back into itself produces a forecast. 
 
Between 2018 and 2021, a few meteorologist-led efforts produced proofs of concept 
that AI models trained on ERA5 could emulate NWP forecasts. But in 2022, efforts from 
outside the weather community – by experienced AI model developers and AI research 
teams at large tech companies – started producing significant research advances. By 
2023, AIWP research models achieved (and sometimes outperformed) forecast skill of 
comparable, best-in-class NWP systems operated by NOAA and ECMWF. This 
technology has proliferated, with a vibrant commercial ecosystem building new AIWP 
research models. Almost all of these AIWP models rely on European re-analysis data - 
the ERA5 dataset. The leading operational AIWP model available today is ECMWF’s 
AIFS. 
 
AIWP promises not only a new way to forecast the weather, but also opens a new 
frontier for improving forecast accuracy. AIWP models are up to 10,000x faster to run 
inference (produce a forecast) while consuming a trivial amount of resources – one 
commodity GPU, rather than a large-scale High Performance Computing (HPC) 
super-computer system using tens of thousands of cores. With these tools, forecasters 
anticipating a devastating tropical cyclone blow to Florida can simulate hundreds or 
thousands of weather scenarios in just minutes, for about the price of a cup of coffee. 
And although training these models for this sort of task is costly, it is still several orders 
of magnitude cheaper than doing so for frontier Large Language Models (LLMs) and 
applications such as ChatGPT or DeepSeek. 
 
The next evolution in AIWP is forecasting directly from “raw” weather observations, 
bypassing traditional NWP and DA systems altogether. This will leverage orders of 
magnitude more observational data than traditional NWP, which only uses a small 
subset of data that has been assimilated with expensive DA. Such an AIWP system – 
powered by the federal government’s datastream of weather observations – will forecast 
faster and more frequently, providing more rapid updates to emerging hazardous 
weather scenarios and serving both public safety and efficient business operations 
Furthermore, this innovation will open up NOAA’s massive, petascale archive of 
historical weather data for training direct modeling applications. Forecasting directly 
from observations will bring unprecedented accuracy and utility – a vital tool for securing 
economic resilience in the face of extreme weather domestically and around the globe. 
 5 


Recommendations 
Through its AI Action Plan, the White House should coordinate an “AI Weather 
Prediction Moonshot” centered around two key areas - AIWP modeling and supporting 
observations data. The goal is American global weather forecasting leadership, with a 
new capability to produce the most accurate forecasts for the oceans and atmosphere 
anywhere in the world. 
1.NOAA should deliver an operational AIWP model for global medium-term
forecasting, with performance competitive to the ECMWF’s AIFS, by July 4th
2026.a.Europe’s AI forecasting model went operational in February 2025
(ECMWF’s AIFS) after a year-and-a-half of development by a team of ~ 15
people, iterating on leading technology from the private sector (Google
DeepMind’s Graphcast).b.China has a number of AIWP models and the China Meteorological
Administration is moving to put them in operation: Pangu-Weather and
Zhiji weather (Huawei), Baguan (Alibaba), FuXi (Shanghai Academy of
Artificial Intelligence for Science).c.American technology companies have produced a variety of leading AIWP
models, including GraphCast / GenCast (Google DeepMind), Aurora
(Microsoft), and FourCastNet / StormCast (NVIDIA). A vibrant technology
startup community is regularly producing competitive research models.d.Within NOAA, efforts with limited resources are underway to attempt to
build internal AIWP capacity for both global (GraphCast-GFS) and
regional (WoFSCast) applications for early evaluation, but these are only
small efforts to develop limited new in-house capabilities, likely to take
years not months.
2.NOAA should source the latest AIWP/data technology from private industry
partners via acquisition, licensing, or co-development.
a.Establish a new NOAA AI Strategic Plan to achieve leadership in AIWP.
NOAA’s pre-AIWP AI Strategic Plan expires in 2025. Efforts in AIWP need
to accelerate to catch up with Europe and China, and benefit from the
latest technology in private companies.b.Increase efficiency of AIWP modeling activities across the federal
government by centralizing them in a single line office within NOAA. There
are currently multiple AIWP R&D projects across the DoD, DOE, NOAA,
and NASA, which fragments resources.c.Contract AIWP development from the private sector. The staggering pace
of AIWP development is extremely difficult to replicate within federal
6 


agencies. Instead, NOAA and stakeholders/partners should prioritize 
working with the leading AIWP technology players, many of whom exist 
outside of the traditional “weather enterprise.” These players are likely 
better resourced for agile technology development, but more importantly 
bring in critical AI expertise and leadership poorly represented in the 
meteorology community. d.Use new types of public-private partnerships for developing AIWP
technology. Traditional collaboration mechanisms (Small Business
Innovation Research grants and Collaborative Research and Development
Agreements - SBIRs and CRADAs) provide insufficient incentives for
private companies to quickly build AIWP models in collaboration with
NOAA. NOAA needs to be able to quickly allocate $Tens-of-Millions in
budget to private partners developing the latest AI and data technologies.
The Commercial Data Program (CDP) has shown some success here,
aligning timescales, funding, and IP ownership with the needs of private
technology companies, to drive innovation.3.NOAA, NASA, DoD, DoE, and other agencies should coordinate and leverage
the USA’s unparalleled Earth Observation capabilities to provide the world’s
leading real-time datastream of weather observations for AIWP modeling.-As AIWP moves to forecasting directly from observations, the quantity,
quality, and real-time availability of weather observation data will become
a key competitive advantage for both training models as well as deploying
and running them operationally-The USA produces leading observational datasets and systems, and
invests in an increasingly innovative commercial observation industry
through NOAA’s CDP. These datasets should be built to directly support
the development of AIWP technology.-NOAA and other agencies should deliver the lowest-latency, most reliable
datastream of weather observations for AIWP innovation by continuing to
convert datasets to analysis-ready/cloud-optimized and AI-ready formats
and by bolstering capabilities to disseminate data in real-time, rather than
tied to the operational forecast modeling cycle.
Conclusion 
Becoming the global leader in AI for weather forecasting is a key pillar of enhancing 
America's broader AI leadership. Being the global leader in AI weather would further 
enhance our leadership in agriculture, energy, logistics, space, and in military theaters 
around the world. 
7 


 
The key to establishing and sustaining this leadership is to support vibrant public-private 
collaborations, closely working with a highly efficient and AI mission-driven NOAA. In 
addition to bolstering its modeling capabilities with AI, NOAA should deliver and make 
available the leading real-time operational weather observation data pipeline, which will 
drive further investment in novel and impactful forecast models by their private-sector 
counterparts. NOAA should contract with one or more American companies to build and 
deliver an operational and best-in-class global medium-term AI Weather Prediction 
Model (with competitive results to ECMWF’s AIFS model) in 12 months. When technology moves very fast in an area, as it is in AI Weather, it is important to tap 
leading-edge AI talent, often in startups and tech companies, or risk being left behind. 
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution. 
8 


