From: Bryce Follmer
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Monday, March 17, 2025 9:19:32 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
As someone who has been hameavuly interested in AI since it's debut, I think that AI will be a
technological revolution that changes the world.   The real changes this technology will make
will likely happen in the background.   I have already read many articles and believe that new
AI has already made significant strides to bolster our economy, specifically in medicalscreenings and shipping & manufacturing tables.
  The technology used there will no doubt be
a boon for our society, yet I worry about the more public facing aspects of this revolution.    AI
like ChatGPT have relentlessly cannibalized copyrighted content, and many businesses havec-suite executives looking to use this technology to replace real artists.
  Not only would this
put many workers out of a job, but the lackluster quality of AI's creative output would bedevastating to America's global entertainment industry.
  Failing to protect our own global
entertainment industry would allow foreign powers to permanently replace us, and we wouldlose one of our nation's biggest exports.
  I also worry about the spread of misinformation
already perpetuated by this technology, and worry that this issue could only grow if the U.Sinvests in AI without the proper caution.
  Beyond these problems, it is undeniable that AI will
change the world, but the revolution this technology will bring is much closer to that ofMicrosoft Excel than the smartphone.
  When the U.S does (and I'm sure it will) promote the
advancement of AI, I urge it to do so with a focus on industrial and medical uses.   Protecting
copyright will not harm these advancements, as the AI developed for these sectors is made in-house.
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


