From:
To:Cc:Subject:Date:Importance:budnik salomon
ostp-ai-rfi
[External] Quantum supercomputing/AI, quantum space telecom, cybersecurity for your investor conference  
Friday, February 21, 2025 11:55:50 AM
High
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
In re:  500,000 chips, nuclear energy to power one of world’s largest AI supercomputer
United Kingdom-based Fluidstack has signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the government ofFrance to build an artificial intelligence (AI) supercomputer.
 The company announced it at the ongoing AI Action
Summit in Paris. French President  Emmanuel Macron was present at the summit. It is a $10.3 billion (€10 billion)
project, as per Macron’s announcement.
Dear Sirs,
for electronics defense and create the quantum 3D space telecom amnd quantum energy AI
data centers beyond common chips, internet, GPS, satellites and nuclear energy, we offer youand investors our NextGen
 3D quantum harmonics and photonics, AI/VR/AR 3D space
telecom and quantum cybersecurity tech  with potential trillions or unlimited parameters of
our quantum space information and communication supersystems to secure cyberspaceinfrastructure for the internet, fintech, energy, healthcare, aerospace and defense.
We accordingly offer you
 and investors to jointly create the  Intl. Quantum Telecom Fund &
Trade Exchange  (IQTFTE) based on our project, bylaws, financial instruments and tech.
Said IQTFTE would issue its  NextEra telecom development bonds  that can be structured by
us based on my two new macroeconomics theories and models with new financial instruments.In quantum tech, we can substitute common semiconductors, PCs and telecom towers by our
3D quantum electronics in quantum photonics and virtual and augmented reality based onmy
 new theory and model of unified quantum field  and your financing, to conquer the
$Trillions consumer electronics and telecom market.
Our telecom presentation is available. AI data centers can be energized by  our modular
quantum tokamak  beyond AI energy competition.
In re: my  theories of quantum field gravity, augmenter reality in 3D imaging and quantum
harmonics in vacuum superconductivity  in Casimir effect and  quantum photonics  enable the
creation of a 3D quantum transmitter for space internet, TV and computing, quantum nanocomputers,
applications and space telecom  in quantum AI  based on photons interactions, as proven in physics and
enable the creation of over-horizon  quantum energy kinetic superweapon  in anti-gravity to make
enemies' ballistic and hypersonic missiles obsolete, with impregnable space, air, land and naval defense.
My book " NextGen Physics and Astrophysics"  comprising new theories of quantum physics and
astrophysics is available as well as my 18 pp. article on  quantum electronics  to create quantum
electronic nanodevices and nanocomputers for global customers in  quantum telecom and
cybersecurity.  Said my paper has been accepted for  IEEE-ICECEIC-2019 Conference in India.


I was the chair, 9th cession a t the ICP Prague 2016 18th International Conference on Physics and have now
received the speaker invitation for  Global Summit on Physics , September 27-28, 2018 in Madrid.   My recent paper
on quantum fusion has been published by  SciFed Journal of Nuclear Science and same concerns my book "Beyond
Einstein and the Big Bang, NextGen Physics".
Committees | Nuclear and Quantum Engineering
World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology
Prof. Dr. Solomon Budnik. UTG-PRI LTD. Department of Quantum Technology
Superstrings Theory
American Research Journals
Kind regards,
Prof. Solomon Budnik,
owner/president of UTG-PRI LTD.
Tel Aviv


