Business  Software Alliance Comments on the Networking and Information 
Technology Research and Development National Coordination Office’s  
Request for  Information on an  
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
March 12, 2025  
The Administra tion’s Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan is coming at a critical time. The 
policies created today will determine how AI is developed and deployed; where the 
technology will create the most jobs; and who will set the rules of the road. The Business 
Software Alliance (BSA)1 appreciates the opportunity to provide input into the Action Plan, 
aimed at strengthening US leadership on AI and advancing American competitiveness and security.  
We encourage the Administration to take the bold steps necessary to promote both the 
development and adoption of AI technology in the US. Broadly, we recommend that the Administration advocate one, harmonized, flexible, and workable standard for AI governance that will give companies in all industries confidence to adopt AI solutions to grow and create jobs. The potential for different rules from each regulatory agency and all 
50 states is confusing and inefficient for both developers and adopters.  
We also recom mend that the President lead like- minded trading partners on AI policy. In 
his first term, President Trump created digital trade deals that remain the gold standard for digital agreements. In doing so, he cemented policies on those issues that  bring other 
countries into commitments that will ultimately benefit everyone. The AI Action Plan should expand on this concept to incorporate AI policy leadership.   
We provide s everal specific recommendations below. The recommendations are 
consistent with Executive Order s (EOs) issued by President Trump on AI in 2019 and 
1 BSA is the leading advocate for the global enterprise software industry. We advocate policies that build 
trust in technology so that the government, every industry sector, and the public can benefit from 
innovation. BSA members are at the forefront of providing AI, cybersecurity, cloud computing, and other 
cutting- edge technologies. As a result, they have unique insights into AI’s tremendous potential to spur 
digital transformation and the policies that can best support the responsible use of AI.  
BSA’s members i nclude: Adobe, Alteryx, Asana, Atlassian, Autodesk, Bentley Systems, Box, Cisco, Cohere, 
Dassault Systemes, Databricks, DocuSign, Dropbox, Elastic, EY, Graphisoft, HubSpot, IBM, Informatica, 
Kyndryl, MathWorks, Microsoft, Notion, Okta, OpenAI, Oracle, PagerDuty, Palo Alto Networks, Rubrik, Salesforce, SAP, ServiceNow, Shopify Inc., Siemens Industry Software Inc. , Trend Micro, TriNet, Twilio, 
Workday, Zendesk, and Zoom Communications, Inc.  


2020. Among other things, these EOs promoted investment in science and technology, 
including research, workforce development, and preserving America’s advantage on AI against competitors and adversarial nations.
2 The focus on these issues was essential to 
maintaining US leadership on AI in 2019, and the same is true today.  
In fact, r ecent technological developments in other countries, including China, and the 
new global policy and regulatory landscape, only strengthen the need to act. We 
encourage you to use these priorities President Trump highlighted six years ago as guideposts in developing the AI Action Plan. We provide below recommendations that align with these priorities and identify specific ways to accomplish these objectives.
3 
Specifically, we urge the Administration to:  
•(1) Promote government efficiency by streamlining and strengthening federal
agencies’ trustworthy and secure adoption of AI;
•(2) Increase investment in research and development (R&D)  and AI infrastructure ,
including by expanding the National AI Research Resource (NAIRR) , creating a
dedicated technical initiative to advance AI science, and supporting open source;
•(3) Pursue strategic engagement in international AI initiatives, including promotingdigital  trade policies that preserve the competitiveness of American businesses,
promoting global interoperability on policy approaches, and facilitating  international
standards and scientific approaches that align with US insights and priorities ;
•(4) Strengthen educational and workforce development to create and protectAmerican jobs; and
•(5) Ensure continued American leadership on AI innovation by leveraging US
copyright law’s flexibility to enable AI training through the “fair use” exception ,
ensuring copyrightability of AI outputs where there is sufficient human creativity ,
and protecting software incorporating AI outputs.
Importantly , a key part of implementing these recommendations will be continued 
engagement with the private sector, which is a critical partner and can provide technical expertise, resources, and other insights on a range of relevant issues, including skills development, research priorities, and how best to leverage AI tools.  BSA stands ready to assist in this important effort. 
2 See Executive Order 13859, Maintaining American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence, February 11, 2019, 
available at https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/ai/executive- order -ai/.  
3 Pursuant to the instructions in the Request for Information, we provide the following statement: This 
document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action 
Plan and associated documents without attribution.  


I.Promote Government Efficiency by Streamlining and Strengthening
Federal Agencies’ Trustworthy and Secure Adoption of AI.
One important way to spur AI adoption, which would boost efficiencies across industr ies 
and provide significant economic growth, is for the government to lead by example  – 
increase adoption of AI to advance the government’s mission and implement governance 
practices that ensure trustworthy and secure AI use. President Trump previously 
recognized the importance of addressing government use of AI in his first term, issuing 
EO 13960 on “Promoting the Use of Trustworthy AI in the Federal Government. ”4  
BSA also supports this important priority . We encourage the US governme nt to increase 
its AI adoption to improve government efficiency, including by streamlining operations and reducing time to complete tasks , and provide better, more tailored  services to Americans , 
such as health care to veterans. Importantly, we also support efforts to ensure that 
agencies use AI  responsibly and securely in accomplishing these tasks. Indeed, 
responsible governance practices are key enablers of AI adoption  because they provide 
more streamlined and uniform approaches that make it easier for the government to use 
innovative technologies.  
As part of t he implementation of EO  14179 , “Removing Barriers to American Leadership 
in Artificial Intelligence,”5 the Trump Administration is reviewing how Office of 
Management and Budget (OMB) memos M -24-10 and M -24-18 on government use and 
acquisition of AI  should be revised  to align with the Adm inistration’s  policy. BSA recently 
provided input to OMB on considerations to take into account when conducting this review, emphasizing the importance of a whole- of-government strategy for spurring AI 
adoption and recommending improved approaches to remove barriers to AI adoption, 
improve AI governance, harmoniz e agen cy practices , and make acquisition p rocesses 
and requirements more efficient and workable.
6 
Specifically, BSA’s letter to OMB  recommends that the Administration: (1) strengthen AI 
governance; (2) advance AI innovation by modernizing IT infrastructure  to enable use of 
AI tools , including through the use of mult -cloud  environments  and digitizing government 
data maintained in usable formats , strengthening capabilities of the federal workforce, 
and making more non-sensitive government data publicly available  to power new AI 
insights ; (3) reset the government’s approach to risk management by establishing a 
4 See Executive Order 13960, Promoting the Use of Trustworthy AI in the Federal Government,” December 
8, 2020, available at  https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2020/12/08/2020- 27065/promoting- the-
use-of-trustworthy -artificial- intelligence- in-the-federal -government .  
5 See Executive Order 14179, Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence, Jan. 23, 
2025, available at  https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/01/31/2025- 02172/removing- barriers -to-
american- leadership- in-artificial- intelligence.  
6 See BSA Letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Russell Vought, Mar. 12, 2025, available at  
https://www.bsa.org/policy -filings/us -bsa-letter -to-office -of-management -and-budget -on-revisions -to-omb-
memos -on-government -use-and-acquisition- of-ai.  


uniform , risk -based  approach, such as by leveraging  the US National Institutes of 
Standards and Technology’s ( NIST ) AI Risk Management Framework , and tailoring the 
scope of agencies’ risk management practices to truly high- risk uses of AI that that are 
needed to ensure trustworthiness ; (5) implement more streamlined procurement policies 
that enable the government to leverage new technologies  more effectively , such as 
prioritizing the use of commercial products , making the Federal Risk and Authorization 
Management Program  (FedRAMP) more efficient , and ensuring regulatory consistency; 
(7)ensure procurement obligations for vendors protect the confidentiality of proprietary
information and can be operationalized in practice; (8) examine  the need for any new
incident reporting requirements , including by clarifying and harmonizing the scope of
reportable AI incidents, avoiding overlap with other incident reporting requirements,
providing reasonable time for reporting, and preventing public disclosure; (9) promote
transpar ency of AI -generated content through open technical standards for content
authentication and provenance; (10) revise testing requirements and risk mitigation
practices for generative AI, including clarifying the scope of risk categories and enabling
more effective mechanisms to legally implement safeguards , such as expanding access
to relevant, high- quality datasets ; and (9) ensure obligations are feasible to implement .
BSA’s letter to OMB, included in the references below, provides more specific
suggestions on how to accomplish these objectives.
Recommenda tion:  The Trump Administration should spur AI adoption by removing 
barriers to government use of AI, including modernizing IT infrastructure , digitizing 
government data and maintaining it in usable format s, and strengthening the 
capacity of the federal workforce; strengthening AI governance, including by 
leveraging the NIST AI RMF across agencies and focusing on high -risk uses of AI; 
and mak ing procurement policies more streamlined , efficient,  and workable,  
including prioritizing the use of commercial products, improving FedRAMP, ensuring regulatory consistency , protecting sensitive proprietary information, 
examining the need for any new incident reporting requirements, promoting the 
transparency of AI -generated content , revising testing requirements, including 
providing mechanisms to ensure that safeguards can be legally implemented, and 
making obligations for vendors feasible to implement . 
II.Increase In vestments in R&D and AI Infrastructure .
President Trump prioritized AI research and development in his first term, and the 
Administration should build on his previous successes  in this area.  Indeed, President 
Trump directed federal agencies to promote sustained investment in AI R&D in EO 13859, updated the National AI R&D Strategic Plan in 2019 to, among other things,  identify key 
topics for  future research, and established the first -ever national AI research institute.  In 
the last few years, there have been several other efforts to build on these efforts , leading 
to, among other things,  the launch of 25 AI research institutes that connect over 500 
funded and collaborative institutions across the country and around the world. But there is 
still more work to do . Global competition on AI has grown, not abated.  The Trump 


Administration should continue to prioritize multi -faceted ways to invest in  AI R&D an d 
infrastructure  including , for example, by increasing funding for basic research at the 
National Science Foundation and through universities, and by fostering investments in AI 
infrastructure nationally  to, among other things, strengthen  its resilience and updat e 
American connectivity infrastructure to enable use of AI tools . In particular, the  
Administration ’s AI Action Plan should also  prioritize two key initiatives : (1) advancing  AI 
science , including by designating a group of US government employees responsible for 
focus ing on this effort;  and (2) expanding the NAIRR pilot project.   
a. Advance AI Science to Maintain American Leadership on AI .
Advancing AI sci ence  is essential to responsible AI adoption.  The AI marketplace needs 
more  scientific  research on critical technical issues, including identifying effective 
measures for evaluating capabilities and risks  of both AI models and systems and 
establishing scientifically valid, systemized AI testing  protocols and benchmarks for 
acceptable outcomes . This is important not only for companies aiming to develop 
responsible AI, but also to their customers, including the public sector, to assure them that 
AI tools have been designed in ways that are reliable, secure , and function as intended . 
Importantly, the US government can aid in this effort . While it is important to maintain the 
long-standing US approach to an industry -led, multistakeholder process for developing 
standards, the US government has a critical role to play. In particular, it can conduct  or 
invest in pre-standardization research on these important issues and lay the foundation 
for adopt ion of  international AI standards  that align with US insights .  
These internat ional standards provide several benefits  to American companies.  First, they 
increase competition by enabling small businesses that may lack significant expertise and 
resources to adopt the same standards leveraged by larger companies. Second, they  
enable global interoperability  by establishing standards that can be used across 
jurisdictions, lowering the barriers of entry into global markets for American companies , 
including s tartups and small businesses , which is vital to maintaining American 
competitiveness . Third, they ensure development of evaluation and testing methods that 
work in practice by those who must use them , easing implementation burdens for 
companies and making tools more effective. Finally, they provide a common baseline for 
responsible AI development and assurance , fostering trust in the  global  AI ecosystem  
necessary to catalyze increased adoption of American AI products and services.  
In light of these benefits, the Trump Administration’s Action Plan should include key steps 
necessary to advance AI science and international AI standards,  including : (1) designating 
a dedicated group of US government personnel who are subject matter experts to focus 
on AI science issues , including research on AI testing; (2) clearly outlin ing objectives for 
the group that focus on technical, not policy, issues ; and (3) direct ing the group to 
collaborate with industry leaders to leverage insights on how potential technical solutions work in practice,  including initiating a public consultation on specific areas of research 
that are necessary  to enhance AI testing capabilities . We note that NIST, as part of its 


long-standing mission, has historically played a significant role in scientific research and 
facilitating industry -led development of international standards, including through the 
previous administration’s AI Safety Institute ’s initiatives . Consequently, the Trump 
Administration should consider leveraging NIST’s considerable technical expertise to 
advance AI science and standards , including the development and adoption of existing 
open techn ical standards for digital content provenance, as part of its reset of US AI 
policy and development of the Action Plan.  The importance of this effort cannot be 
overstated. Scientific breakthroughs in AI are a catalyst for continued American innovation 
and economic growth.  
But th is group of scientific experts cannot  focus on developments in the United States 
alone . As discussed below, the proliferation of  international  AI safety institutes and related 
initiatives around the world strengthen the imperative not only to unlock AI innovation in the United States, but also to lead the global conversations with other technical experts 
on similar efforts to advance trustworthy  AI development and use , which includes sharing 
amongst government and industry stakeholders of AI -specific security threats . Ensuring 
that there are US  government  (or funded) experts who are principally charged with 
developing scientifically valid approaches to enhancing AI development, including much-needed protocols for evaluation and testing, and that related global efforts align with the 
US government’s work, is paramount. As a result, th is new group of experts  that the 
Trump Administration designates should also facilitate the adoption of the group’s 
research outcomes by international standards organizations to establish US solutions as global practices, enabling America to lead the world on the future of AI.  Indeed, this is 
necessary to “ensure that American AI technology continues to be the gold standard 
worldwide,” as Vice President Vance outlined in his recent remarks at the Paris AI Action 
Summit, spur continued innovation fueling America ’s economic growth , and protect our 
national security , including from threats by foreign adversaries who exploit foreign AI 
models developed without robust testing protocols established by US researchers .  
b.Expand t he NAIRR .
President T rump’s EO 13859 also recognized the importance of increasing access to key 
resources, including data,  necessary to conduct AI research. The National AI Initiative Act 
of 2020, which Congress  enacted at the end of President Trump’s first term, directed the 
creation of a NAIRR Task Force to explore the feasibility of creating a shared national research infrastructure for educators and researchers to access the necessary 
computational, data, software, and educational resources to accelerate research and 
innovation.
7 As a result of the  implementation of these efforts, which began during 
President Trump’s first term, a pilot program for the NAIRR now exists, which is a small , 
but necessary,  step toward broadening access to critical resources that enable a wider 
range of people to contribute to AI research, expandin g the number of research topics 
7 See National Artificial Intelligence Initiative Act of 2020 (Pub.L. 116- 283) § 5106(a)(1)(A), 15 U.S.C. § 
9415(a)(1)(A).  


and different perspectives that result in more informed, robust solutions. Notably, NAIRR 
Secure, a part of the NAIRR pilot program  led by the Department of Energy and National 
Institutes of Health , is exploring new mechanisms to combine sensitive data in ways that 
preserve privacy and security, a critical step in increasing the breadth and utility of data 
that can fuel more  groundbreaking AI insights , such as advanc ing precision medicine to 
improve healthcare.  
Despite this  progress , the pilot project is  limited in scope and impact. The AI Action Plan 
should expand  the NAIRR pilot program  to transition it to a fully developed, permanent 
US government initiative with a broader scope , more participants, and sufficient  funding.  
In doing so, it can significantly advance AI R&D , enabling discoveries that improve the 
capabilities  of AI to learn and reason ; application across industry sectors , stimulating 
broad- based economic growth ; and acceleration of  research in other areas, including 
engineering and other scientific fields powering American innovation. Indeed, the use of 
AI to advance other research areas is well -documented. For example, AI’s ability to 
quickly analyze large volumes of data accelerates analysis of genetic sequences in drug 
discovery and simulation of complex engineering scenarios , speeding up research 
timelines  and quickly delivering critical insights.8 The potential for the shared research 
infrastructure to provide similar breakthroughs is immense , and the Trump Administration 
should seize the opportunity to amplify this effort  by expanding the NAIRR pilot project.  
c.Support Open Source.
Open source  is a critical component of the AI ecosystem. It expands the AI marketplace, 
enhances the diversity of product offerings, promotes transparency, and enables 
vulnerabilities to be identified and remediated. Importantly, it also enables widespread 
research on enhancing AI capabilities  and evaluation, which are key drivers for enabling 
new AI uses  and improving trustworthiness , resulting i n increased  adoption  and related 
economic growth. As a result, the Trump Administration should recognize the important  
role that open source plays in AI research and development  and adopt policies that 
support both open source and proprietary AI systems.  
Recommenda tion: The Trump Administration should invest in AI R&D and 
infrastructure to maintain American AI leadership by advancing AI science , 
including by : (1) designating a group of US government experts focused on this 
issue that, among other things, prepares pre -standardization AI research , in 
collaboration with external stakeholders; (2) make the NAIRR pilot project a 
permanent program to catalyze additional AI research ; and (3) support ing open 
source. 
8 See Gary Drenik, Forbes, How AI Is Accelerating Innovation in Research and Development,  June 18, 
2024,  available at  https://www.forbes.com/sites/garydrenik/2024/06/18/how -ai-is-accelerating- innovation- in-
research- and-development/ .  


III.Pursue Strategic Engagement on International AI Initiatives.
We also urg e the Administration to maintain its engagement in international initiatives . In 
his first term, President Trump helped establish America as a leader in shaping the global 
approach to AI, and he can now solidify this position. Indeed, the previous Trump 
Administration forged key international alliances  on AI , including launching the Global 
Partnership on AI, signing a bilateral agreement on R&D cooperation with the United Kingdom, and helping advance the publication of the OECD’s AI principles, which have influenced AI policy approaches around the world. It is crucial that President Trump 
continue similar efforts  to maintain American prosperity  for myriad reasons, including 
those highlighted below . In short, extensive engagement with foreign partners is 
necessary to promote the adoption of US approaches abroad that maintain American 
businesses’ competitiveness and protect  America’s national and economic security from 
growing threats  from foreign adversaries.  
First, US enga gement with foreign countries is necessary to advanc e trade policies that 
ensure other countries do not create barriers to market entry for American companies. Indeed, expanding access to foreign markets is a s ignificant potential growth opportunit y 
for American businesses . In 2023, US exports of digitally delivered services was $656 
billion,  64% of total services exports , and a 31% increase since 2018.
9  As these statistics 
illustrate, t he ability to sell digital products and services abroad  not only benefits American 
companies, but it is also critical to the stability and growth of the US economy.  The US 
government plays a pivotal role in protecting American companies ’ access to foreign 
markets by reducing technical barriers to trade, including requirements for data 
localization and source code disclosures , which limit insights of data -driven technologies , 
including AI , create compliance challenges for US companies operating globally, and 
undermine American companies’ ability to protect trade secrets and proprietary 
information, reducing their competitiveness.   
In particular , the Trump Administration should adopt a market -driven approach to export 
controls that  accomplishes two important goals – supports the global adoption of 
democratic AI systems  that protect U.S.- developed IP against state- sponsored industrial 
espionage and theft  and promotes the broad deployment of U.S. -developed compute, 
models, and other infrastructure to countries around the world.  As stated in the US 
Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security’s core mission statement, export controls must “not impose unreasonable restrictions on legitimate international commercial activity that is necessary for the health of US industry,” and must avoid “actions that compromise the international competitiveness of US industry without any appreciable national security benefits .” Sustained engagement with foreign trade partners 
9 Congressional Research Service, Digital Trade and Data Policy: Key Issues Facing Congress, Jan. 6, 
2025, available at  
https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/IF/IF12347#:~:text=Digital%20trade%20includes%20trade%20i
n,%2C%20streaming%20or%20cloud%20services ).  


is neces sary to protect the interests of American businesses  and their ability to create 
American jobs at home.  
Second, it  is critical that the US government ensure interoperability of policy and legal 
frameworks to , among other things, enable companies to compete globally  and avoid 
being shut out from operating in foreign markets because of cost -prohibitive compliance 
challenges  created by inconsistent requirements  across jurisdictions   This is particularly 
important for America’s small businesses, which may lack the resources to comply with 
burdensome and conflicting legal requirements . To avoid this result, strong collaboration 
with foreign partners is necessary to shape globally interoperable approaches.  For 
example, several multilateral initiatives are developing governance approaches for AI, 
including the G7 and the United Nations. We encourage the Trump Administration to 
maintain a seat at the table in these dialogues .  In doing so, it can  both protect the 
interests of American companies, including  from the creation of burdensome approaches 
that limit innovation and disfavor US approaches, and promote American frameworks, 
such as the NIST AI RMF , as an effective global approach, which provides US companies 
with consistent, predictable benchmarks that ease implementation of AI governance best 
practices.   
Third, levera ging US scientific research to inform international approaches and standards 
development , as discussed above , requires sustained bilateral and multilateral 
engagement to garner support among other countries to advance these technical contributions  among the broader scientific community and external stakeholders , obtain 
global standardization, and promote widespread adoption  and use to realize the benefits  
of standardization.  This includes, among other things, engagement with European 
standards bodies  implementing the EU AI Act , as well as the International Network of AI 
Safety Inst itutes, to avoid inconsistent  outcomes, impractical guidance, or unreasonable 
obligations for leading US AI innovators . US engagement  is also important to protect 
American interests by ensur ing participating organizations  focus exclusively on scientific 
research  and technical contributions that are not influenced by national policy approaches 
or geopolitical considerations.  
Fourth,  US eng agement with other countries, including developing nations, is critical to 
protect America’s national and economic security by stymying China’s  strategy to invest 
in, export its technology to, and forge alliances with developing countries to increase its 
global influence. Indeed, China’s chief administrative authority previously stated that it plans to become the “world’s premier [AI] innovation centre” by 2030, and it recently announced China’s intention to hold 10 AI capacity -building workshops for developing 
countries by  the end of 2025.
10 Further, b y 2023, China had secured investments across  
15 African countries to supply 10 times more power than US investments, which cover 
10 See The People’s Republic of China Ministry of Foreign Affairs, AI Capacity -Building Action Plan for Good 
and for All, available at 
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/wjbzhd/202409/t20240927_11498465.html#:~:text=%E2%80%94China%20is%
20ready%20to%20establish,AI%20technology%20and%20its%20applications.  


only three countries.11 Chinese companies, such as  Alibaba  and Huawei , have also 
expanded  their presence in Africa, offering cloud services and investing in data centers 
across the continent.12 In addition, China, largely through its Belt and Road Initiative, is 
exporting its technology to developing countries in Latin America , Africa, and Southeast 
Asia. These increased exports enlarge China’s market share  and, notably,  expand its 
access to data, including rich, unique local datasets enabling the creation of AI models 
that may perform better in foreign markets, increasing competition with American firms , 
which may lack access to similar localized data.13 China’s strategy to become the engine 
for economic and technological growth for  developing countries  could allow it to assert its 
influence on them in a range of critical settings , including defensive alliances  and 
economic partnerships. As a result, it is imperative that the US government increase its 
engagement with emerging economies to counter China’s growing influence.    
As Michael K ratsios, serving as the Chief Technology Officer in President Trump’s first 
term, wrote in 2020 , “[N]ations  face a stark choice about what vision of AI] will 
prevail.”14 Right now, countries can choose an American vision of AI that advances 
democracy  and aligns with US economic and national security interests, or China’s vision, 
which promotes authoritarianism and poses threats  to American leadership and security . 
US engagement with foreign partners is critical to ensuring countries make the right choice and to combat ting this intense competition for global economic, technological, and 
thought leadership. Indeed,  it is a key factor in determi ning not only whether America 
remains at the forefront of AI innovation, but also whether it maintains its standing as the 
world  leader on a range of other important issues  that will shape our  future . In short, our 
work abroad is a key driver of how we thrive at home.  As a result,  the AI Action Plan 
should prioritize engagement with foreign countries because it is how we keep America 
first. 
Recommenda tion:  The Trump Administration should engage with foreign partners 
to advance American AI innovation and leadership  and protect America’s economic 
and national security, including by promoting strong digital trade policies  that 
maintain American competitiveness , global interoperability  of AI policies, adoption 
of international  AI standards, and collaborati on with emerging economies.  
11 See Alberto Lemma, ODI Global, Will China’s Influence in Africa’s AI Revolution Undermine Its 
Soverignty?, available at https://odi.org/en/insights/opinion- will-chinas -influence- in-africas -ai-revolution-
undermine- its-sovereignity/ .  
12 For instance, Huawei has announced plans to invest $430 million in data centers in Africa, and Alibaba is 
already providing cloud services in South Africa.  
13 See Shaoyu Yuan, The Conversation, China leans into using AI – even as the US leads in developing it, 
Aug. 21, 2024, available at  https://theconversation.com/china- leans -into-using- ai-even- as-the-us-leads -in-
developing- it-236557#:~:text=Strategic%20exports,viable%20alternative%20to%20Western%20democracy . 
See Wilson Center, America’s AI Strategy: Playing Defense While China Plays to Win, available at 
https://www.wilsoncenter.org/article/americas -ai-strategy -playing- defense- while -china- plays -win.  
14 Michael Kratsios, Wall St. J., Artificial Intelligence Can Serve Democracy, May 27, 2020, available at 
https://www.wsj.com/articles/artificial -intelligence- can-serve -democracy -11590618319.  


IV.Strengthen Educational and Workforce Development to Create and
Protect American Jobs.
President T rump has adopted several measures to strengthen American workers. In 
addition to outlining steps to help American workers in EO 13859 in his first term, President Trump also issued Executive Order 13845 , establishing the National Council for 
the American Worker to train and retrain workers across high- demand industries.
15 We 
encourage the new Administration to continue similar  efforts to prepare our kids and 
American workers for future jobs created or changed by AI -enabled innovation. The 
acceleration of AI adoption across every sector of the economy  has made this priority 
even more urgent . Increasing access to STEM education, including in rural areas, is a key 
driver of economic growth, and countries all over the world are competing to ensure they have the AI talent to stay ahead. For example, in 2021, China  had about six times more 
engineering graduates than the United States.
16  We must close this gap.  
Generally, the Trump Administration’s Action Plan shoul d identify mechanisms that will: 
(1)inform the broader ecosystem how to prepare for the jobs of the future; (2) expand
access to digital skills ; and (3) ensure that education for K-12 students prepares them for
AI-enabled jobs upon graduation.  As an initial matter, t he Trump Administration’s Action
Plan should include action items that can enhance our understanding of the skills that
workforce training initiatives should address . For example, the Trump Administration
should establish a public -private partnership that improves the availability of real -time
labor data. Enhanced access  to real -time labor data could provide employers and workers
with better visibility into the skillsets  that are most in- demand in their markets, allowing
them to make informed choices about the types of reskilling efforts that will generate the
most opportunity. Real -time labor data would also improve the efficacy of federal, state,
and local employment strategies, program development, and  resource allocation to
address rapidly evolving workforce challenges, including supporting skills -based hiring
initiatives, which President Trump prioritized in Executive Order 13932 on “Modernizingand Reforming the Assessment and Hiring of Federal Job Candidates.”
Second, t he Action Plan should also include mechanisms for broadening access to 
training programs.  For example, the Trump Administration should work with industry and state and local organizations to create alternative paths to AI careers that enable workers 
to develop high- demand technology  skills without the need for a bachelor’s degree from a 
four-year university or graduate degree. Hands -on competitions and programs like 
apprenticeships,  partnerships with community colleges, “boot camps,” and public service 
15 See Executive Order 13845, Establishing the President’s National Council for the American Worker, 
available at https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2018/07/24/2018- 15955/establishing- the-
presidents -national -council -for-the-american- worker .  
16 See David P. Goldman, Insulating Ourselves from Chinese Tech and Talent Will Stifle American Industry, 
Newsweek,  Jan. 19, 2024,  available at  https://www.newsweek.com/excluding- chinese- military -engineers -
us-will-stifle -american- industry -opinion- 1862319.   


opportunities are all  important gateways helping new and mid- career workers develop in-
demand digital skills.  
Third, the A ction Plan should address how to ensure K-12 students are prepared for AI -
enabled employment opportunities . These efforts should include identifying mechanisms 
to improve access and support for STEM education, such as further collaboration with 
relevant stakeholders on developing appropriate curricula and increasing its use at 
schools across the country , and creation of high school student internship opportunities at 
technology and other companies leveraging AI and other emerging technologies.   
Recommenda tion:  The Trump Administration’s Action Plan should include 
measures to strengthen the American workforce by: (1) providing information to 
help understand future  needs of employers leveraging AI, including by releasing 
real-time labor data; (2) creating new opportunities to obtain access to digital skills , 
such as partnerships with community colleges and apprenticeships ; and (3) 
strengthening STEM education for K -12 student s and internships for high school 
students.  
V.Ensure Ame rican AI Innovation by Preserving Continued AI Training on
Copyrighted Information Under “Fair Use” Exception in Copyright Law .
President T rump recognizes the importance of the United States winning the AI race. To 
that end, the United States must enable its most innovative companies to conduct AI 
training and to recoup their substantial investments in computational analysis and 
infrastructure built here in the United States. BSA – whose members are major US 
copyright holders and AI developers – is well positioned to engage with the White House 
on these issues.  
Essential to AI development is access to a sufficiently large set of data so that 
computational analysis can reliably identify correlations, patterns, and other metadata to develop an AI model that can make predictions while minimizing risk of inaccuracy or error . Some of that data may be a component of a copyrighted work, but the use of the 
data for AI training is not related to the work’s creative expression.  US copyright law , 
through its “fair use” exception, enables this training where it includes copyr ighted 
material, and that flexible approach is critical to increasing AI adoption and preserving US 
leadership on AI innovation.  BSA encourages the AI Action plan to continue support for 
this approach.  
Copyright owner s should and do have full and effective remedies if the output of  an AI 
system infringes their rights. BSA has also encouraged Congress to consider a digital 
replica law to protect artists.   


Importantly, the copyrightability of AI outputs where there was sufficient human creativity 
and protection of software incorporating AI outputs are also essential to increased AI 
investment and innovation.  
BSA also enc ourages more work on consensus -based, machine- readable tools to 
indicate that a content licensor does not want a website used for training purposes , and 
can thereby opt -out of training . In fact, there is already a burgeoning ecosystem for such 
private collaboration between AI developers and deployers on the one hand, and licensors of creative content on the other.  
Large licensors o f commercial content, including Chinese- and other foreign- invested 
enterprises, lobbied the prior Administration to adopt measures that would benefit those companies at the expense of American AI -driven science, ingenuity, and creativity.  Such 
proposals jeopardize our AI competitiveness, improperly limiting scientific research and 
the generation of new IP in the United States more broadly.  
Recommendati on: We urge the Trump Administration to adopt a pro- innovation AI 
and IP policy that gives AI developers confidence to train AI models and systems in the United States. This means ensuring that the White House, Justice Department, and Commerce Department (and the US Patent & Trademark Office and the 
Copyright Office) advance innovation and IP policies that support US AI leadership and competitiveness. This includes standing up in support of longstanding US 
legal norms that treat non- consumptive uses of copyrighted content as a fair use in 
US law. It also means supporting similar norms, including statutory provisions enabling AI training, among US allies and partners.  
*** 
The steps highli ghted above are critical to achieving the EO’s goal to “solidify our position 
as the global leader in AI and secure a brighter future for all Americans .” As noted above, 
it is critical that the Administration partner with industry to leverage its expertise to 
achieve this goal , and BSA looks forward to working with you to help accomplish this 
objective. 
Respectfully submitted , 
Shaundra Watson  
Senior Director, Policy  


