  March 15, 2025  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. 
Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  From:  
C. Maine  
Artist, Author , Small Business Owner  
 
Re: Nation Science Foundation’ s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
 
As an artist and an author, I run a small business under threat of theft and loss of business and 
livelihood from Big Tech companies such as Google,  Microsoft,  Meta, OpenAI, Stable 
Diffusion, Midjourney, and other artificial intelligence  creators.  
As such, I would like to urge the Administration to think beyond the current “arms race” of AI 
and reject the proposals of these abusive companies built upon the theft, copyright, and privacy 
violations  of thousands of artists, creators, and common people whose information, photographs, 
art, music, writing, and more was used without consent, knowledge, and compensation . 
In creating an AI Action Plan, the Administration should build a better foundation that protects 
small creators  and publishers  and maintains copyright protections for all, not just Big Tech and 
other Big Business. It should also require transparency and disclosure of AI -generated content to 
all. 
My apologies if this letter is less polished and in depth  as I would normally craft. I only found 
out about  the RIF for Development of an AI Action Plan mere hours before public comment 
closing. Despite following AI in the news, this went under my radar as it likely did for many 
under the information censorship and control of centralized internet entities such as Google and 
Meta. I believe these companies may have even suppressed the news knowingly as shown in this 
Meta search . 
 
Copyright and Intellectual Property Must Be Protected And Respected For All  
AI Generated Content Should Not Be Capable Of Copyright  Or Royalties  
The creation of Generative AI models  and release to the public has threatened the livelihood of 
many artists and writers whose very creations were used without knowledge , consent , or 
reparation  to train the very AI models now being used to replace them  and others in a mass move  
to shift skill and wealth to the unskilled and the already wealthy. People without skill or training 
now have free  or subscription  access to a machine that grants them the abilities they never 
learned or possessed and to enter the market to compete for wealth  against the people who do 
possess these abilities. People whose abilities became the data sets of these AI models now being 
used against them.  
Case in point, freelancer websites offering artistic abilities are now flooded with AI “artists” 
capable of generating content faster and with little to no effort and skill against those who have 
trained for years for the abilities AI harvested through data scraping and offered to the unskilled. 


This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  2 These generative content creators  often undercut true artists and have amassed wealth from skills 
they do not possess . The current top commissioned artist on Etsy is an AI “artist” that does not 
clearly label or define that they use AI  for their works and have sold hundreds if not thousands of 
“paintings” to customers in the mere three years that their shop has existed.  
Additionally, Amazon is now flooded with AI generated books from a wealth of “authors” who 
were incapable of writing much of anything before being given access to a machine that will do 
it for them.  
Generative AI is not a tool , it is a cheat created by the theft of thousands of artworks to create a 
database for a machine to rearrange a s best it can to match the “prompt” of the creator. The 
creator themselves has little more than an idea they have no ability or skill to execute without 
this machine.  
Everything you see in this world was designed by some form of artist. From the bench on the 
street to the building across the way, to the car you drive, the couch you sit in, the books you 
read, the art on your walls, the plate you eat food from, the shows on your TV . Just about 
everything in existence has the influence of some creator . Art is a defining ability of humanity. It 
is what is remembered when we’re gone and all that remains in history is what we created . Even 
the cavemen’s first expression and m ark in history was the  art they left upon cavern walls.  
Even in the instructions to submit a comment to the Federal Register, it states that “…no 
business proprietary information, copyrighted information, or sensitive personally identifiable 
information be submitted as part of your response to this RFI.” This statement alone means this 
Administration already understands the value and import of copyright protection, yet Big Tech is 
urging the Administration to allow them to violate  and take away that right  it for the common 
people —the majority of this nation —while Big Tech and Big Business  will maintain and guard 
their own copyrights and proprietary information like watch dogs . See ho w quickly Stable 
Diffusion and Midjourney cried theft when their own images and data were thought stolen by the 
other  in this article , meanwhile they desire the ability to call their blatant copyright violation 
against artists “fair use”.  However , Big Tech’s usage of AI does not fall under fair use when their 
generated content competes against the original creators  of the content within the data set. 
Creating a machine to compete against the people it is training off of is the complete opposite of  
fair use.  
 
All Content Generated By AI Should Be  Transparent In Its Source And Labeled As Such  
To Prevent The Spread of Scams And Misinformation  
Generative AI is already capable of faking videos  and voices to a level that an alarming number 
of people are incapable of identifying as AI. In 2024 some videos of the LA fires went viral for 
their destruction and apocalyptic visuals . People across social media believed it to be real 
footage until it was verified as being generated by AI ( article ). This is only one example of the 
spread of misinformation caused by AI , but all you have to do is browse Instagram to find a 
multitude of mislabeled reels and videos spreading false information backed by AI generated 
videos.  


This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  3 Generative AI also allows for scammer to thrive in a new way. A perfect example is a Facebook 
business depicting a clearly AI generated man with a false personal backstory of how he’s been 
in the leatherworking business for forty years. Customers of this business have reported that their 
items come from a warehouse in China. Worse than this “business”  existing is the fact that when 
I personally reported the advertisements and page to Meta, they only checked out the business 
with their machine models which f ound nothing amiss and claimed the business did not violate 
any of their community standards when it violated more than a few. There was no way to follow 
up and provide a case and so the scam business remains active, luring in more unaware 
customers.  
This is far from the only scam out there. Watch any You Tube video and you’re bound to see an 
advertisement for some false get rich quick scam based off some secret AI  prompt.  
Creating a world filled with false informa tion will only create a sense of disillusionment with 
reality. If AI gets better and less detectable by the human eye, it will only become more difficult 
to seek out the truth  especially if AI generated content is not transparently labeled and identified.  
 
AI Should Also Always Be Verified And Kept In Check By Humans And Should Not Be 
Relied Upon Fully  As An Infallible Source  
AI is notoriously inaccurate and is known to “hallucinate” information that has led to numerous 
problems  to anyone using it as a source of information. This is despite the vast wealth of human 
knowledge that AI already has access to, stolen or otherwise. AI info and summaries on Google 
alone  are so inaccurate it has been called out in news  (article ) and even its own employees have 
been warned of the security and privacy threat of using their own AI ( article ). Big Tech 
companies also notably  stepped back  from allowing their A I chat bots to comment on the  2024  
US election due to major inaccuracies and misinformation  (as seen here.) 
Even the simplicity of AI call centers to redirect customers to the people and departments they 
need to speak to in order to solve a problem have not made it quicker for anyone to get their 
problem solved and it’s only increased the time to get things done  that would have been quickly 
solved with a human understanding.  
Education and learning is threatened by AI Chat Bots and their inaccuracies and misinformation. 
And with Generative AI capable of writing essay and performing research , human inadequacy is 
beginning to thrive. America’s education level is already embarrassingly low and AI in education 
has not improved the situation.  It doesn’t help that AI detection models for determining if an 
essay was written by an AI are also fallible. Many have put through their own articles and 
research written solely by their own abi lity and found that the machine flagged them as having 
been written by AI. It’s the same with art. AI is currently fallible even in its detection of itself.  
 
National Security Should Not Be Hinged On A System Incapable Of Fact Checking And 
Consistently Proven To Manufacture False Information  


This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  4 Chat GPT has been accused of generating false information on people and on  “hallucinating” 
imaginary cases as seen here. And as stated above, Big Tech companies stepped back from 
allowing their AI Chat Bots from commenting and answering questions on the 2024 US election 
because of known inaccuracy and misinformation.  
 
AI Should Not Be Allowed To Train Off Biometric Data  As It Creates A Major Security 
Risk  
With the existence of Deep Fake AI technology already in existence, allowing AI to train off the 
collected biometric data of the populace or on data collected from social media could create a 
dystopian horror of identity theft . This poses a major security risk not only to individuals, but to 
the nation as a whole.  
It is already possible for AI scammer s to train off an individual’s voice and create a false hostage 
phone call situation to extort money. This is a problem that can become far worse with increased 
access and allowance to train off biometrics and social media. With enough voice and video 
samples collected, AI generators may be able to create myriad of security threats by mimicking 
individuals . 
People should have the right to refuse their biometrics from being collected from all sources 
including airports and social media. Secondary methods of identity verification that don’t rely on 
biometrics should also exist as they have  for years. Hacking of biometric collection data centers 
are not an ‘if’ question , but ‘when’ and personal information is bound to be caught up in an 
attack by AI or human actors.  
People have already found ways to abuse AI in this short period of time since its public debut in 
2022. How much worse will it become with unfettered access to everything including videos and 
photographs on social media claiming it to be “fair use.”  
 
AI Should Never Receive Resource Priority Over Human Need  
AI Needs Environmental And Energy Protections And Regulations In Place So As Not To 
Further Exacerbate A World In Climate Crisis  
There Should  Also Be Deeper Research Conducted Into The Effects  On Environment And 
People Near Data Centers  
And There Should be Renewable And Non Destructive Sources Of Energy That Do Not 
Worsen The Climate Crisis  
AI data centers  consume as mass amount  of resources  to exist. Already at these early stages of 
existence, AI consumes as much energy as that of a small nation. It also consumes about 16 
ounces of drinkable water for every 20 -50 prompts . Google’s AI alone is estimated to have 
consumed about 550,000 gallons  per day in a nation where the average person’s withdrawal of  
water  per day is  132 gal lons. (article ). 


This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  5 Fresh water is a precious and limited resource necessary for human life on this planet . There are 
already millions of people living in countries with critical water  scarcity  while AI data  centers 
are being allowed to consume this limited resource in competition with  the people.  
One of the major changes the current climate crisis has caused on this world is drought and yet 
while people in California  (article ) and other areas are put under restriction for water 
consumption to preserve this precious resource, AI data centers are still allowed to withdraw 
mass am ounts of this resource despite the high threat level.  
Last summer alone, most of the world dealt with record high temperatures and places that rarely 
see 100  degrees Fahrenheit saw a multitude of days in the triple digits . Certain high heat areas of 
the globe be came uninhabitable by people when before it was simply considered an extreme. 
There have  been unusual weather changes shifting as the climate crisis continues , the most recent 
even t of a hurricane in the mountains of North Carolina  being the most note -worthy over here in 
the US . But there have been mass  shifts in climate globally without adding the threat of a 
machine that consumes the water and energy of an additional nation on this world on the brink of 
climate collapse.  
 
AI Should Be Kept In Check By People Without A Stake In Its Company And Without 
Monetary Gain From Its Profits  
The corporations at the forefront of the AI race are for -profit companies that have already 
violated the trust of many and continue to do so. Meta, Google, ChatGPT, and others fill the 
news with lawsuits and privacy violations galore. I don’t think I need to provide examples when 
a simple search will offer up a multitude.  
National Security should not be hinged on corp orations that consistently violate it. Google has 
lawsuits for listening in to phone conversations, for violating incognito mode, and scanning 
private emails. Microsoft implemented Recall despite backlash and its comparison to being 
spyware with its collection or personal and sensitive data. Meta recently updated their policies in 
2024 to force every user to allow its AI to scrape the data from their posts, photos, videos, etc 
without allowing a true option to o pt out. AI’s existence itself is proof of massive copyright 
violation that has been overlooked  and is now trying to be excused without cause.  
There is little public trust of the entities creating the AI  and in AI itself is low and declining 
(article ). Allowing AI to remain unregulated or giving it more power will only cause a full loss of 
trust. AI needs to kept in check by people without a stake in the company or in AI’s growth and 
creation, people who cannot be bought  at the very high cost of trust.  
 
In conclusion, while I don’t believe AI is a necessary step  to progress  and that better regulation 
on predatory and abusive corporations  seeking to centralize resources, information, and global 
wealth  would serve more benefit  to the world as a whole, AI is still a problem for now. But if 
properly regulated and thought out now instead of lighting the match and trying to put out the 
fires later, the Administration can prevent great future hardship.   


This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  6 I urge the Administration to think deeply on the future ahead and the problems that will 
eventually arise if not addressed early . I’ve listed a multitude in the few hours notice I was given 
to create this comment and I’m sure I did not get in as much depth or cover as much detail as I 
could have, but I hope this is enough to gain the Administration attention . 
We need to make a better world. It can start with this.  


