1 March  11, 2025  
Via Electronic  Submission  
The Honorable  Sethuraman  Panchanathan  
Director  of the United  States  National  Science  Foundation 2415 
Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria,  VA 22314  
Re: Docket  No. 2025 -02305,  Request  for Information  on 
the Development  of an Artificial  Intelligence  (AI) Action  Plan  
Dear  Director  Panchanathan,  
The Council  for Innovation  Promotion  (C4IP)  welcomes  the opportunity  to submit comments  in 
response  to the National  Science  Foundation’s  Request  for Information  on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (Docket No. 2025 -02305).  
C4IP  is a bipartisan  coalition  dedicated  to promoting  strong  and effective  intellectual property  rights  
that drive  innovation,  boost  economic  competitiveness,  and improve  lives everywhere.  Founded  and 
chaired  by former  directors  of the U.S. Patent  and Trademark Office  (USPTO)  from  previous  Democratic  
and Republican  administrations  — whose  board also includes  two retired  judges  from  the Court  of 
Appeals  for the Federal  Circuit  — our nonprofit  organization  aims  to be a valued  partner  to those  
considering  policies  impacting America’s intellectual property system.  
The strength  of the IP system  will play a defining  role in the future  of AI innovation; C4IP  believes  
that the United  States  should  ensure  that the Patent  Act clearly  allows for the patenting  of AI 
inventions  and should  otherwise  avoid  using  the patent  system  to 
overregulate  AI and inadvertently  stifle  innovation  in this technology  and its applications. In  other  areas  
of IP, the Administration  should  support  policies  that ensure  that the IP system  can perform  its role to 
appropriately  compensate  creators  for the use of their  works  or other  intangible  assets,  thus  ensuring  
that appropriate  incentives  remain  to nurture  future investment in creative activities.  
To ensure  that the patent  system  protects  and promotes  AI innovation,  C4IP  believes  that legislation  is 
needed,  which  the Administration  is well-positioned  to champion.  A series  of 
Andrei  Iancu , Co-Chair  
David  Kappos , Co-Chair  
Judge  Paul Michel  (Ret.),  Board  Member  
Judge Kathleen  O’Malley  (Ret.),  Board  Member  
Frank  Cullen , Executive  Director  


2 [1]Alice  Corp.  v. CLS Bank  International , 573 U.S. 208 (2014).
[2]Patent  Eligibility Restoration Act  of 2023, S.  2140, 118th Cong.  (2023).
[3]USPTO, 2024 Guidance Update on Patent Subject Matter Eligibility, Including on Artificial Intelligence, 89 FR 58128 (July
17, 2024), https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2024/07/17/2024 -15377/2024 -guidance -update -on-patent -subject -matter - 
eligibility -including -on-artificial -intelligence ; see also C4IP, Re: Docket No. PTO -P-2024 -0026, 2024 Guidance Update on Patent
Subject Matter Eligibility, Including on Artificial Intelligence (September 16, 2024), https://c4ip.org/wp -content/uploads/2024/09/
C4IP -Public -Comment -RE-PTO -P-2024 -0026.pdf  (also attached to this submission, as Appendix A).recent  Supreme  Court  decisions  — including  Alice  Corp.  v. CLS Bank  International  — has unfortunately  
created  significant  uncertainty  over  whether  AI inventions  are entitled  to protection  from  the patent  
system,  notwithstanding  this technology’s  centrality  to innovation at this critical  moment.1 These  
Supreme  Court  decisions  significantly  expanded  previous judicially -created  exceptions  to what  types  of 
inventions  can be patented,  resulting  in a judicial  test that is overly  subjective,  which  has translated  into 
restrictive  and inconsistent lower court rulings.  
This case  law is ultimately  undermining  confidence  in the U.S. patent  system  and discouraging  
investment  in AI and other  critical  technologies.  Meanwhile,  other  countries  
— including  China  — maintain  more  straightforward  patent  eligibility  frameworks  for AI and other  
computer -implemented  innovations.  This disparity  places  U.S. innovators  at a competitive 
disadvantage.  
To address  these  challenges,  C4IP  strongly  supports  legislative  solutions  like the Patent Eligibility  
Restoration  Act (PERA).2 PERA  would  restore  clarity  and predictability  to patent eligibility,  ensuring  that 
AI-powered  advancements  — as well as other  critical  innovations  
— are not improperly  excluded  from  protection.  It is important  to note  that the bill does not  
“expand”  eligibility  beyond  what  was historically  recognized;  rather,  it corrects  the restrictions  and 
uncertainty  created  by recent  Supreme  Court  decisions.  
C4IP  believes  that this Administration  could  play a critical  role in advancing  the AI leadership  of the 
United  States  by championing  meaningful  legislative  change  in this area  of patent  law and endorsing  
PERA.  The Administration’s  support  for PERA  would  help  restore a  stable,  innovation -friendly  patent  
system,  providing  the encouragement  and certainty needed  for continued  investment  in AI research  and 
development.  
Until  there  is further  clarity  from  the courts  or Congress,  however,  the Administration should  take  care  
to ensure  that Supreme  Court  guidance  is not over -interpreted  to preclude the patenting  of AI inventions  
more  than  is mandated.  For example,  the Office’s  July 2024 update  to its Section  101 guidance  for 
patent  examiners  over -interprets  binding  case  law 
in a manner  that unduly  restricts  the eligibility  of AI-based  inventions.3 Given  the ongoing  


3 [4]USPTO, Inventorship Guidance for AI -Assisted Inventions, 89 FR 10043 (Feb. 13, 2024), https://www.federalregister.
gov/documents/2024/02/13/2024 -02623/inventorship -guidance -for-ai-assisted -inventions ; see also C4IP, Re: Docket No.
PTO -P-2023 -0043, Inventorship Guidance for AI -Assisted Inventions (May 13, 2024), https://c4ip.org/wp -content/uploads/2024/05/
C4IP -Public -Comment -RE-PTO -P-2023 -0043.pdf  (also attached to this submission, as Appendix B).
[5]USPTO, Request for Comments Regarding the Impact of the Proliferation of Artificial Intelligence on Prior Art, the
Knowledge of a Person Having Ordinary Skill in the Art, and Determinations of Patentability Made in View of the Foregoing, 89
FR 34217 (April 30, 2024), https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2024/04/30/2024 -08969/request -for-comments -regarding - 
the-impact -of-the-proliferation -of-artificial -intelligence -on-prior .
[6]C4IP,  Re: Docket  No. PTO -P-2023 -0044,  Request  for Comments  Regarding  the Impact  of the Proliferation  of Artificial  Intelligence
on Prior  Art, the Knowledge  of a Person  Having  Ordinary  Skill  in the Art, and Determinations  of Patentability  Made  in View  of
the Foregoing (July 29, 2024), https://c4ip.org/wp -content/uploads/2024/07/C4IP -Public -Comment -RE-PTO-P-2023 -0044.pdf  (also
attached to this submission, as Appendix C).uncertainty  in this area,  the USPTO  should  avoid  imposing  additional  limitations  beyond what  is clearly  
required  by precedent,  ensuring  that AI-driven  innovations  are not excluded from  patent  protection  any 
more  than  absolutely  necessary.  C4IP  recommends  that the Administration  reconsider  and revise  the 
updates  to this guidance.  
C4IP  also urges  caution  against  the USPTO  promulgating  policy  proposals  that further impose  
unnecessary  barriers  on patenting  AI inventions  or inventions  made  with  AI assistance.  The USPTO’s  
February  2024  guidance  on AI and inventorship,  for example, effectively  creates  additional  disclosure  
requirements  for patent  applicants  who  used  AI as a tool in the invention  process  — something  not 
required  for any other  kind  of tool.4 This heightened  burden  placed  on the use of AI will unnecessarily  
deter  its use, whereas  the USPTO  and the U.S. government  should  be taking  every  step  to encourage  
the use of AI so that  this country  can benefit  from  the innovative  potential  that it could  unleash.  
Beyond  eligibility  and inventorship,  C4IP  also urges  the Administration  to refrain  from drafting  other  
patent  examiner  guidance  that unduly  burdens  the development  of AI or AI-enabled  technology.  For 
example,  last April,  the USPTO  requested  input  regarding  the impact  of AI on other  aspects  of patent  
examination  but has not yet issued  any specific guidance.5 C4IP  believes  the Administration  should  
avoid  premature  and potentially excessive  regulation  that could  inadvertently  stifle  future  AI 
innovation.6 
As the Administration  considers  the intersection  between  AI and other  areas  of intellectual property,  
C4IP  urges  policies  that support  appropriate  recognition  and compensation  to human  creators.  For 
example,  C4IP  supports  policies  and legislation  that would  require greater  transparency  into what  
copyrighted  material  is used  to train  AI models.  This would help  maintain  the integrity  of the copyright  
system  while  fostering  responsible  AI-driven innovation.  Appropriate  compensation  structures  and 
penalties  for unlicensed  use should  be established, protecting creators’ rights.  


4 [7]Nurture  Originals,  Foster  Art, and Keep  Entertainment  Safe Act of 2024,  S. 4875,  118th  Cong.  (2024).Likewise,  C4IP  also supports  legislative  efforts  like the Nurture  Originals,  Foster  Art, and Keep  
Entertainment  Safe  (NO FAKES)  Act, which  would  establish  important  protections against  the 
unauthorized  use of an individual’s  name,  image,  or likeness  in AI-generated content.7 Ensuring  that 
creators  and public  figures  have  clear  rights  in this rapidly  evolving landscape  is essential  to preserving  
trust  and fairness  in the digital  economy.  
C4IP  urges  the Administration  to champion  a balanced  approach  to AI — one that eliminates  
unnecessary  regulatory  obstacles  while  supporting  strong  patent  and other intellectual  property  
protections  that support  U.S. leadership  in innovation.  
We appreciate  the NSF’s  consideration  of these  issues  and welcome  further  discussion. Sincerely,  
Frank Cullen 
Executive  Director  
Council  for Innovation  Promotion  (C4IP)  


Appendix  to C4IP’s  response  to Docket  No. 2025 -02305, 
Request for Information on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Appendix A: Docket No. PTO -P-2024 -0026, 2024 Guidance Update on Patent Subject  Matter  Eligibility,  
Including  on Artificial  Intelligence  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........................  6 
Appendix  B: Docket  No. PTO-P-2023 -0043,  Inventorship  Guidance  for 
AI-Assisted  Inventions  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  12 
Appendix C: Docket No. PTO -P-2023 -0044, Request for Comments Regarding the  Impact of the 
Proliferation of Artificial Intelligence on Prior Art, the Knowledge of a  Person  Having  Ordinary  Skill in 
the Art, and Determinations  of Patentability  Made  in 
View  of the Foregoing ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............  19 
Table  of Contents  


6 Appendix  A 


7 September  16, 2024  
Via Electronic  Submission  
The Honorable  Katherine  K. Vidal  
Under  Secretary  of Commerce  for Intellectual  Property  and Director of the 
United States Patent and Trademark Office  
600 Dulany  Street  
Alexandria,  VA 22314  
Re: Docket  No. PTO-P-2024 -0026,  
2024 Guidance Update on Patent Subject Matter Eligibility, Including on 
Artificial Intelligence  
Dear  Director  Vidal,  
The Council  for Innovation  Promotion  (C4IP)  welcomes  the opportunity  to submit  comments in response  
to the U.S. Patent  and Trademark  Office’s  issuance,  on July 17, 2024,  of updated examiner  guidance  on 
subject  matter  eligibility,  including  new  examples  47-49 (Docket  No. PTO -P-2024 -0026) (the “July 2024 
Guidance”).  
C4IP  is a bipartisan  coalition  dedicated  to promoting  strong  and effective  intellectual property  rights  
that drive  innovation,  boost  economic  competitiveness,  and improve  lives everywhere.  Founded  and 
chaired  by former  directors  of the U.S. Patent  and Trademark Office  (USPTO)  from  previous  Democratic  
and Republican  administrations,  whose  board also  includes  two retired  judges  from  the Court  of 
Appeals  for the Federal  Circuit,  our nonprofit  organization  hopes  to be a valued  partner  to those  
considering  policies  impacting America’s intellectual property system.  
C4IP  welcomes  the USPTO’s  attention  to keeping  its subject  matter  eligibility  guidance  for the  Office  
current.  The July 2024  Guidance  helpfully  makes  clear  that there  is a path  to patentability  for some  AI in 
the United  States  — at least  from  the Office’s  perspective.  Yet, in some  critical  aspects,  the Office’s  
guidance  discounts  the revolutionary  ways  that artificial intelligence  (AI) allows  machines  to accomplish  
tasks  that only  humans  have  been  capable of performing until now.  
C4IP  urges  the USPTO  to reconsider  aspects  of the guidance  that directs  AI limitations to  be ignored  
— essentially  as nothing  more  than  a general -purpose  computer  — when  it 
Frank  Cullen , Executive  Director  
Andrei  Iancu , Co-Chair  
David  Kappos , Co-Chair  
Judge  Paul Michel  (Ret.),  Board  Member  
Judge Kathleen  O’Malley  (Ret.),  Board  Member  


8 is clear  from  the context  (the claim  or the specification  if it effectively  limits  specific  claim language)  that 
the advance  in AI is what  allows  for the automation  of tasks  that previously could  only  be accomplished  
by humans.  In addition,  while  the analysis  and output  of AI machines  may  seem  like human  “reasoning”  
(and  thus  susceptible  to categorized  as an abstract  mental  process),  they  are not. AI represents  
separate,  machine -based  processes that analyze  data  in new  ways,  producing  unique,  non-human  
outputs.  The innovation  and effort  required  to develop  such  automation  lies at the heart  of AI 
technology,  yet it is not consistently treated as such by this guidance.  
Concerns  about  the July 2024  Guidance  and Examples.  For instance,  the new examples  accompanying  
the guidance  ignore  limitations  reciting  the use of AI by characterizing  the claimed  step  of the process -
in-question  as being  capable  of being performed  in the human  mind.  This is the case  for steps  (d) and (e) 
of Example  47, Claim  
2.Those  limitations  recite  the use of a trained  AI (an artificial  neural  network,  or ANN) to  detect
anomalies,  analyze  them,  and generate  anomaly  data.  The direction  given  to examiners  is that the 
limitation  to a trained  ANN  “provide[s]  nothing  more  than  mere  
instructions  to implement  an abstract  idea  on a generic  computer.”  When  these  elements  are ignored,  
these  steps  are left with  only  “detecting”  and “analyzing,”  so the guidance  explains these  steps  could  be 
performed  by the human  mind.  But, this analytical  approach  overlooks the  value  of AI, which  is that 
training  AI on data  will lead  it to perform  “detecting”  and “analyzing”  differently  than  a human  would,  
involving  pattern  detection  and inferences  a human  would  not make.  Moreover,  the Office  cites  no 
source  for the proposition  that trained AI  should  automatically  be treated  like a generic  computer  for 
purposes  of this analysis,  and it  does  not seem  appropriate  that this inference  be made.  
The July 2024 Guidance’s new bullet -point examples of “mental steps” based on recent Federal Circuit  case  
law are also problematic.  (These  examples  are based  on Trinity  Info Media,  LLC 
v.Covalent,  Inc., 72 F.4th  1355  (Fed.  Cir. 2023),  In re Killian , 45 F.4th  1373  (Fed.  Cir. 2022), and PersonalWeb
Techs.  LLC v. Google  LLC, 8 F.4th  1310  (Fed.  Cir. 2021)).  Given  the way that the holdings  of these  cases  are 
described,  examiners  are invited  to ignore  concrete  claim limitations  and summarily  conclude  that claims  
amount  to nothing  more  than  collecting, analyzing,  and outputting  data.  There  is no guidance  given  in 
these  examples  on when  it is proper  to ignore  specific  claim  elements  that limit  the process  to machines,  
especially  when there  are clear  advantages  to having  machines  perform  the claimed  steps.  This is 
especially problematic  coming  in the context  of guidance  meant  to help  with  AI inventions,  where  data 
gathering,  analysis,  and output  are key elements  of this new  technology,  but which  turn  on meaningful  
advances  in how  these  functions  are achieved  by machines,  not by humans.  The 


9  
 [1] USPTO, Public Views on Artificial Intelligence and Intellectual Property Policy 8 (Oct. 2020), https:// www.uspto.gov/sites/  
default/files/documents/USPTO_AI -Report_2020 -10-07.pdf . 
[2] C4IP,  Re: Docket  No. PTO -P-2023 -0043,  Inventorship  Guidance  for AI-Assisted  Inventions  (May  13, 2024),  https://c4ip.org/  
wp-content/uploads/2024/05/C4IP -Public -Comment -RE-PTO -P-2023 -0043.pdf ; see also Andrei Iancu & David Kappos, New Patent 
Guidance on AI Could Quash Innovation , Wall Street Journal (July 11, 2024), https:// www.wsj.com/articles/new -patent -guidance - 
on-ai-could -quash -innovation -dd848ea4 . 
[3] In re Rudy, 956 F.3d 1379, 1383 (Fed. Cir. 2020) (“We are not . . . bound by the Office Guidance, which cannot modify or 
supplant the Supreme Court’s law regarding patent eligibility, or our interpretation and application thereof.”),  
[4] See id . (Fed. Cir. 2020) (“To the extent the Office Guidance contradicts or does not fully accord with our caselaw, it is our 
caselaw, and the Supreme Court precedent it is based upon, that must control.”).   
guidance,  therefore,  unfortunately,  may  serve  to make  obtaining  patents  on AI inventions unnecessarily  
difficult,  with  patents  being  issued  according  to the idiosyncrasies  of how  the guidance’s  gaps  are filled  in 
by individual  examiners.  
While C4IP has concerns with how the USPTO is discounting AI limitations, C4IP agrees with  the 
Office’s  approach  of treating  AI the same  as it would  any other  invention.  As the USPTO  wrote  
previously,  “the  USPTO  has been  examining  and issuing  patents  claiming AI  inventions  for years”1 using  
the same  eligibility  guidance  that applies  to all patent applications.  No case  law that we are aware  of 
would  dictate  a different  tact.  C4IP  continues to  believe  that this is also the correct  approach  for 
questions  of AI and inventorship,  in contrast  to the Office’s  current  approach,  which  we do not believe  
is required  by case  law.2 Instead,  AI should  be treated  the same  as any other  tool that human  inventors  
might  use in developing  an invention.  The Office’s  current  approach  unnecessarily  elevates  AI’s current 
capabilities  and threatens  to make  inventions  developed  using  AI vulnerable  to this side- show  question  
during  patent  examination  and court  proceedings.  
Legislative  Reform  of Patent  Eligibility  Is Needed.  Putting  specific  concerns  about  the July 2024  
Guidance  aside,  there  are larger  systemic  problems  with  our nation’s  approach to  patent -eligible  
subject  matter.  For example,  the Office’s  guidance  is not binding  on 
the courts,  which  have  the ultimate  say in how  binding  case  law is applied  to potentially invalidate  AI 
patents  when  they  are enforced.3 Having  a legal  system  where  there  may be discrepancies  between  
the flow -chart  approach  of the Office  and the case  law approach employed  by the courts  presents  
real harm  to the innovation  economy.  Arguably,  these discrepancies  are forced  on the Office,  which  
is trying  to ensure  consistency  among  9,000 examiners  (including  many  without  a legal  degree)  in 
light  of constantly  evolving  and unpredictable  case  law.4 Nonetheless,  the current  setup  gives  a false  
sense  of certainty  to 
patent  recipients,  particularly  those  lacking  access  to legal  expertise  that can advise  them on how likely 
a court is to enforce a granted patent.  
 
 
 


10 [5]David  Taylor,  Patent  Eligibility  and Investment , 41 Cardozo  L. Rev. 2019,  2054  (2020),  http://cardozolawreview.com/wp - 
content/uploads/2020/10/6. -Taylor.41.5.3.FINAL -1.pdf .
[6]A. Sasha Hoyt, The Impact of Uncertainty Regarding Patent Eligible Subject Matter for Investment in U.S. Medical Diagnostic
Technologies , 79 Wash. & Lee L. Rev. 397 (2022), https://scholarlycommons.law.wlu.edu/wlulr/vol79/iss1/8 .
[7]Letter from D. Geoffrey Vince, Ph.D., Chair, Biomed. Engineering, Lerner Rsch. Inst., Executive Director, Innovations,
Cleveland Clinic, to Sen. Chris Coons, Senate Judiciary IP Subcommittee Chairman and Sen. Thom Tillis, Senate Judiciary IP
Subcommittee Ranking Member (May 3, 2024); Letter from Laurie H. Glimcher, MD, President and Chief Executive Officer of
the Dana -Farber Cancer Instit., to Sen. Chris Coons, Senate Judiciary IP Subcomm. Chairman and Sen. Thom Tillis, Senate
Judiciary IP Subcomm. Ranking Member.
[8]See Kevin Madigan & Adam Mossoff, Five Years Later, the U.S. Patent System is Still Turning Gold to Lead , IPWatchdog
(Dec. 15, 2019), https:// www.ipwatchdog.com/2019/12/15/five -years -later -the-us-patent -system -is-still-turning -gold-to-lead/
id=116984/ ; Kevin Madigan & Adam Mossoff, Turning Gold to Lead: How Patent Eligibility Doctrine is Undermining U.S.
Leadership in Innovation , 24 Geo. Mason L. Rev. 939 (2017).
[9]S. 2140, https:// www.congress.gov/bill/118th -congress/senate -bill/2140 ; H.R. 9474, https:// www.congress.gov/bill/118th - 
congress/house -bill/9474 .The same  sort of whiplash  affects  investors,  who  might  see their  patent -backed  investments evaporate,  
leading  them  to hesitate  before  investing  in similar  areas  of technology  in the future,  as research  has 
borne  out: in a survey  of 475 venture  capital  and private  equity investors,  74%  agreed  that patent  
eligibility  is an important  consideration  in whether  
to invest  in companies  developing  technology.5 Other  research  has shown  a decline  in investment  
of $9.3  billion  in life science  diagnostics  in the years  following  the Mayo decision.6 Some  of the 
nation’s  premier  research  institutes  have  written  to Congress about  how  this case  law has forced  
them  to abandon  commercialization  of promising  
discoveries.7 The impact  of the change  in law in this area  accordingly  threatens  the national 
competitiveness  of the United  States  in innovation,  as we compete  with  countries  whose patent 
systems are not similarly constrained.8 
For these  reasons  and others,  C4IP  believes  that legislative  reform  to § 101 is needed  and urges  the 
Office  to take  a more  proactive  role in advocating  for such  reform.  In particular, C4IP  supports  the 
Patent  Eligibility  Restoration  Act (PERA)  — bipartisan,  bicameral legislation  that is the product  of years  
of Congressionally -led discussion  and negotiation.9 This bill would  address  the problems  set forth  in 
this submission  by providing  a single framework  for courts  and the Office  to employ,  promising  the 
increase  in predictability and  certainty  that the Office  has seen  since  it adopted  a more  streamlined  
approach  with its  Patent  Eligibility  Guidance  in 2019.  This bill would  also align  our patent  system  with  
that of our major  economic  competitors  (namely,  Europe,  China,  South  Korea  and Japan)  to ensure  that 
we do not lose innovative  individuals  and startups  to these  other  jurisdictions.  
* * * 
Ensuring  that the United  States  remains  the leader  in artificial  intelligence  is a vital objective  for our 
country,  and the primary  incentive  system  that drives  this progress  is the 


11 patent  system  administered  by the USPTO.  The Office’s  attention  to developing  specific guidance  on this 
important  area  of technology  is commendable,  but the particulars  of the guidance  may  have  an 
unintended  deterrent  effect  on innovation  in this field  and others.  
C4IP  urges  the Office  to revisit  the July 2024  Guidance  and accompanying  examples to ensure  that 
examiners  are not improperly  incentivized  to ignore  meaningful  claim  
limitations,  which  would  help  to guard  against  over -characterization  of AI inventions  (and others)  as 
nothing  more  than  mental  processes,  when  they  reflect  advances  being  performed by machines, and 
claimed only as such.  
Given  the state  of the case  law in this area,  C4IP  continues  to believe  that legislation  is needed  to 
ensure  a proper  scope  of patent  protection  on critical  areas  of technology  and to  ensure  that the 
Office  and federal  courts  do not unduly  diverge  in their  analysis  of this  issue.  C4IP  accordingly  urges  
the Office  to publicly  support  the Patent  Eligibility Restoration  Act, legislation  that would  do 
precisely  this.  
C4IP  thanks  the USPTO  for its work  on this critical  issue,  and stands  ready  to provide  any further input 
that may be requested.  
Sincerely,  
Frank Cullen 
Executive  Director  
Council  for Innovation  Promotion  (C4IP)  


12 Appendix  B 


13 May  13, 2024  
Via Electronic  Submission  
The Honorable Katherine K. Vidal  
Under  Secretary  of Commerce  for Intellectual  Property  and Director of the 
United States Patent and Trademark Office  
600 Dulany  Street  
Alexandria,  VA 22314  
Re: Docket  No. PTO-P-2023 -0043,  
Inventorship  Guidance  for AI-Assisted  Inventions  
Dear Director Vidal,  
The Council  for Innovation  Promotion  (C4IP)  welcomes  the opportunity  to submit  comments regarding  
the February  13, 2024,  Inventorship  Guidance  for AI-Assisted  Inventions  (Docket No. PTO -P-2023 -0043). 
This guidance went into effect immediately, although the Office solicited written feedback on or before 
May 13, 2024.  
C4IP is a bipartisan coalition dedicated to promoting strong and effective intellectual property rights 
that drive innovation, boost economic competitiveness, and improve lives everywhere. Founded and 
chaired by former directors of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office  from  previous  Democratic  and 
Republican  administrations,  our nonprofit  organization aims to be a valued partner to those considering 
policies impacting America’s IP system.  
C4IP is concerned that the Office’s artificial intelligence (AI) inventorship guidance will ultimately  hurt  
humans,  human  creativity,  and flourishment;  the very  opposite  of what  the Office  set out to do. The 
newly -announced  guidance  means  that inventors  who  use artificial intelligence to innovate and then 
seek patent protection will be faced with uncertainty throughout  the examination  process  and during  
any validity  challenges  afterward,  with  the possibility that their “human” contribution was not enough. 
This is because the guidance starts from  the premise  that use of AI by an inventor  or inventors  is 
different  than  the use 
Andrei  Iancu , Co-Chair  
David  Kappos , Co-Chair  
Judge  Paul Michel  (Ret.),  Board  Member  
Judge Kathleen  O’Malley  (Ret.),  Board  Member  
Frank  Cullen , Executive  Director  


14 1 To this end, the Office states “the USPTO recognizes that while an AI system may not be named an inventor or joint inventor 
in a patent or patent application, an AI system —like other tools —may perform acts that, if performed by a human, could  
constitute inventorship under our laws.” 89 Fed. Reg. 10043, 10045 (emphasis added). The Office cites to no authority that AI is 
currently capable of conception (and consequently invention). Case law abounds with descriptions of conception, in particular , as 
a fundamentally  human  activity.  See, e.g., Univ.  of Utah  v. Max-Planck -Gesellschaft  zur Forderung  der Wissenschaften  E.V.,  734 
F.3d 1315, 1323 (Fed. Cir. 2013) (“To perform this mental act, inventors must be natural persons[.]”). An assertion that mach ines
are already —or soon to be —capable of this functionality should receive more support and more explanation. Indeed, later in the
Federal Register notice, the Office states, “Because conception is an act performed in the mind, it has to date been understo od as
only performed by natural persons.” 89 Fed. Reg. at 10046.
2 See USPTO, AI -related Resources, https:/ /www.uspto.gov/initiatives/artificial -intelligence/artificial -intelligence -resources  
(providing links to two examples of application of the Office’s AI inventorship guidance all involving human activity); see a lso 
Thaler  v. Vidal,  43 F.4th  1207,  1209  (Fed.  Cir. 2022)  (AI system  allegedly  solely  responsible  for invention  yet a human  applied  for 
a patent application).  
3 Implicitly this means that only AI made a significant contribution. This stands in contrast to the potentially distant 
hypothetical  noted  earlier  of an invention  made  solely  by a machine,  without  the need  for human  involvement  in the form  of 
prompts or anything else, for example.  
4 35 U.S.C. §  103. 
5 See Thaler,  43 F.4th  at 1212  (The  last sentenced  of § 103 describes  “how”  an invention  is made  rather  than  “who”  is an 
inventor).  
6 Life Techs.,  Inc. v.  Clontech  Labs., Inc.,  224 F.3d  1320,  1322 (Fed.  Cir. 2000).  of any other tool. This premise is simply incorrect.1 To date, the possibility that AI can act as an 
inventor, absent any human involvement, remains a hypothetical, not an issue that warrants  a 
significant  overhaul  of existing  rules,  as the Office  proposes  to do here  — indeed, all the examples 
crafted by the Office describe varying degrees of human involvement.2 
Yet, under the guidance’s reinterpretation of case law on conception and inventorship, no one will be 
entitled to a patent where no human made a “significant contribution” to the conception  of the 
invention.3 But this test was developed  to answer  a different  question  
— namely, to decide who invented something first or whether someone was improperly listed  or 
omitted  as an inventor.  It is in this context  that the significance  (or lack thereof)  of particular 
contributions becomes relevant.  
The context  of a human  or humans  using  AI is fundamentally  different.  The proper  analytic framework  
for considering  use of AI should  be the same  as what  patent  law has always  used to consider tools or 
other input used by inventors. The law here is clear, as set forth in the last  line of § 103:  “Patentability  
shall  not be negated  by the manner  in which  the invention was made.”4 Inventors’ use of AI merits no 
further consideration in the patentability analysis  than  the use of any other  tool,  such  as a computer,  for 
example,  under  fact patterns more analogous than those considered by the Office. This is because the 
Office is properly considering “how” the invention is made, not “who” the inventors are.5 
For example, in Life Technologies, Inc. v. Clontech Laboratories, Inc. , two scientists were attempting to 
develop an altered version of an enzyme lacking one of its two biological activities. They ultimately 
found a published computer analysis that predicted where  these  two activities  were  located.6 The 
scientists  focused  on the indicated  section  for the 


15 7 Id. at 1323.  
8 Id. at 1323 -25 (notably,  the computer  analysis  reference  itself  was disclosed).  
9 Life Techs.,  Inc. v.  Clontech  Labs., Inc.,  224 F.3d  1320,  1325.  
10 Id. 
11 Silvestri  v. Grant, 496 F.2d 593, 600 (C.C.P.A.1974); Heard v. Burton, 51 C.C.P.A. 1502, 1506 (1964); see also Invitrogen Corp.  
v. Clontech Labs., Inc., 429 F.3d 1052, 1064 (Fed. Cir. 2005) (“[T]he court must identify when, during an emerging recognitio n
that a particular  invention  includes  something  new,  the inventor’s  understanding  reaches  the level  needed  for appreciation.  In the
appreciation analysis, the relevant uncertainty relates to the emerging recognition of something new.”).
12 Silvestri,  496 F.2d at 600. 
13 USPTO, Example  1: Transaxle  for a  Remote Control  Car, https:// www.uspto.gov/sites/default/files/documents/ai -inventorship - 
guidance -mechanical.pdf.  undesirable activity, eliminated it, and sought a patent on the result.7 They were accused of  inequitable  
conduct  for failing  to disclose  that the computer  analysis  had motivated  them to investigate that 
location to alter the enzyme.8 The Federal Circuit found no inequitable conduct, explaining that “the 
inventors’ reliance on the [computer analysis reference] and the motivations that they derived from it 
have no bearing on the issue of patentability. It does not matter whether the inventors reached their 
invention after an exhaustive study  of the prior art, or developed their [ ] enzymes in complete 
isolation.”9 In other words, per the last sentence of § 103, “the path that leads an inventor to the 
invention is expressly made  irrelevant  to patentability  by statute.”10 The use of AI by inventors  is not 
functionally different than the use of computer analysis in this case — the motivation or inspiration to 
the inventors from a non -human source is irrelevant to patentability.  
Analytically separate is the question of whether invention happened at all. To this end,  the line of case  
law identified  by the Office  as “accidental  conception”  is instructive,  though not relied upon for this 
purpose by the guidance. This case law concerns whether a human appreciated the results of a process 
that produced a potentially novel and useful outcome. For example, under a frequently -occurring fact 
pattern in the case law, scientists created chemical compounds from a set of reactions and the 
operative question was whether an individual had appreciated the existence and significance of a 
specific chemical species resulting from that experiment.11 As the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals 
described the test, “the critical question is whether there was contemporaneous recognition and 
appreciation  of the new  form.”12 This framework,  asking  whether  a human  appreciated a 
potentially inventive output from the “black box” of a chemical reaction, is factually analogous to a 
human considering the output of AI.  
Applying this logic to the fact pattern presented in Example 1 of the Office’s guidance13 would 
potentially allow the two engineers to be inventors. In that example, the engineers prompted  an AI 
system  to provide  a transaxle  structure,  resulting  in a proposed  schematic. The relevant inquiry under 
the case law described above would be whether the engineers recognized and appreciated this 
proposed schematic’s significance as an invention, understanding that there was possibly something 
unique or especially useful — facts not provided  in the scenario.  Absent  a dispute  on inventorship  
between  the human  inventors,  


16 14 See Invitrogen, 429 F.3d at 1064 (explaining that analysis of appreciation “requires objective corroboration of the inventor’s 
subjective beliefs.”).  
15 89 Fed. Reg. at 10047.  
16 Example  1, supra  note 10. however, there would be no reason to inquire into the appreciation of the inventors at the time they 
learned of the AI’s proposed structure.14 For examination purposes, the regular patent law inquiries of 
whether the proposed schematic was new and non -obvious (details also not provided in the example) 
would be relevant to the transaxle’s patentability, as would compliance with § 112. But the 
“contribution” of AI, as compared to the engineers, would not be.  
On these facts, however, the Office’s guidance points to the opposite conclusion. The guidance states 
that “a natural person who merely recognizes and appreciates the output of an AI system as an 
invention, particularly when the properties and utility of the output are  apparent  to those  of ordinary  
skill,  is not necessarily  an inventor.”15 This is affirmed  by Scenario 1 of Example 1, where the Office 
concludes that the AI’s output is not patentable because the engineers have merely asked AI to solve a 
problem.16 The Office’s reasoning, however, is precisely an inquiry into the manner of invention that is 
prohibited by § 103. The  Office’s  guidance,  moreover,  borrows  the concept  of the level  of ordinary  skill 
in the art, an element of the obviousness analysis, and makes it part of the question of inventorship. 
This even more explicitly illustrates what the Office’s guidance is doing in this passage: conflating 
inventorship and obviousness.  
The Office devotes no consideration to the inevitable policy implications of its approach and 
conclusion, which will leave new potential inventions, such as in Example 1, without inventors. Lack of 
patent protection will mean that no one has an incentive to turn a potentially new schematic into a 
viable new commercial product — building prototypes, factories, developing marketing, or any of the 
other steps involved in taking patentable innovation  to market.  No investment  of resources,  time,  or 
money  can rationally  be spent  to develop an idea when the final product can be readily copied.  
The guidance also provides no definition of what constitutes “AI,” which leads to this heightened 
machine -versus -human -contribution analysis. When is an innovator using an advanced  computer  
program  and when  is he or she using  AI? As this inventorship  disclosure requirement for AI is effectively 
a new one on top of the disclosures required by § 112, the lack  of definition  is troubling.  No such  
disclosures  are required  for use of computers  as a tool in general (unless necessary for compliance with 
§ 112).


17 17 See 89 Fed. Reg. at 10050 (“Given the ubiquitous nature of AI, this inventorship inquiry could include questions about whether 
and how AI is being used in the invention creation process.”).  
18 For these reasons, it is also concerning that the USPTO made this guidance effective immediately without the benefit of a 
round  of public  comment.  It has the potential  to prejudice  current  and future  patent  applicants  and would  have  benefited  from  a 
thorough review before be widely relied upon by patent examiners.  The concerns  about  disclosure  are compounded  by the Office’s  clear  warning  that inequitable conduct 
may result from a failure to adequately investigate inventorship when AI is used as well as from a 
failure to disclose such information if it is material to patentability.17 Moreover, even where innovators 
and their counsel have attempted to carefully follow the Office’s  guidance,  they  are likely  to be 
challenged  on their  reasoning  and conclusions  if they ever have to enforce a resulting patent. Whether 
AI was used and whether the inventors have  contributed  “enough”  as a result  is likely  to be a new  
flavor  of invalidity  challenge in most lawsuits going forward. Regardless of success, it will add more 
complication and expense  to lawsuits,  burdening  innovators  and providing  an unwarranted  boon  to 
infringers.  
In sum, the inquiries that the Office’s guidance may now make routine for AI -assisted inventions  add a 
troubling  layer  of unnecessary  complexity  to the patentability  inquiry.  Just as asking if a computer 
analysis motivated an inventor too much or if too much unknown happened  in a chemical  reaction  to 
claim  the result,  asking  if too much  AI was used  is not an appropriate patentability inquiry. Trying to 
discern the significance of human versus non - human contributions during examination, as this 
guidance does, will lead to the rejection of claims and patents that are properly patentable under the 
law and will lead to needless additional validity challenges to issued patents.  
Without definitive guidance from either the courts or Congress that this is the path the USPTO  must  
follow,  the USPTO  is doing  a disservice  to would -be inventors  and innovation more  generally  by chilling  
incentives  for use of AI by anyone  who  does  not want  to bear  the uncertainty  that it could  be used  to 
reject  their  patent  application  or invalidate  their  patent.18 Or, such entities may be incentivized to turn to 
trade secret protection where they can, to the detriment of the storehouse of common knowledge. As 
a result, this guidance is likely to  harm  human innovators  and discourage  use of AI as a new  and 
promising  tool. This  will put American inventors and American innovation leadership at a distinct 
disadvantage to our  economic  competitors,  such  as China,  who  are not hampering  their  intellectual  
property system with these limitations.  
* * * 
Ensuring  a robust  and reliable  patent  system  in the face of ongoing  technological  advancement is a crucial 
component of the USPTO’s mission. Yet, missteps in accommodating such development  can have  
unintended  but substantial  chilling  effects  on further  progress.  C4IP believes this guidance on AI and 
inventorship, by effectively assuming too much about AI and  too little  about  humans,  has the 
potential  to do just that.  The solution  is fortunately  


18 simple: treat AI just as patent law has treated other new tools and allow relevant case law to be 
developed by the courts or for Congress to act. Until then, C4IP respectfully suggests that the USPTO 
consider rescinding or substantially revising this guidance.  
C4IP  thanks  the USPTO  for their  work  on this important  issue  and stands  ready  to provide any further 
input that may be requested.  
Sincerely,  
Frank Cullen 
Executive  Director  
Council for Innovation Promotion (C4IP)  


19 Appendix  C 


20 July 29, 2024  
Via Electronic  Submission  
The Honorable  Katherine  K. Vidal  
Under  Secretary  of Commerce  for Intellectual  Property  and Director of the 
United States Patent and Trademark Office  
600 Dulany  Street  
Alexandria,  VA 22314  
Re: Docket  No. PTO-P-2023 -0044,  
Request for Comments Regarding the Impact of the Proliferation of 
Artificial Intelligence on Prior Art, the Knowledge of a Person Having  
Ordinary  Skill in the Art, and Determinations  of Patentability  Made  in 
View of the Foregoing  
Dear  Director  Vidal,  
The Council  for Innovation  Promotion  (C4IP)  welcomes  the opportunity  to submit  comments in response  
to the U.S. Patent  and Trademark  Office’s  request  of April  30, 2024,  on 
how  the emergence  of artificial  intelligence  (AI) technology  might  impact  the Office’s determination  of 
whether  a patent  application  is patentable,  with  particular  attention  to issues  relating  to prior  art and 
the person  of ordinary  skill in the art (PHOSITA)  (Docket No. PTO -P-2023 -0044).  
C4IP  is a bipartisan  coalition  dedicated  to promoting  strong  and effective  intellectual property  rights  
that drive  innovation,  boost  economic  competitiveness,  and improve  lives everywhere.  Founded  and 
chaired  by former  directors  of the U.S. Patent  and Trademark Office  from  previous  Democratic  and 
Republican  administrations  whose  board  also includes  two retired  judges  from  the Court  of Appeals  for 
the Federal  Circuit,  our nonprofit organization  hopes  to be a valued  partner  to those  considering  policies  
impacting  America’s intellectual property system.  
Artificial  intelligence  (AI) is a promising  new  technology  with  the potential  to accelerate human  
innovation  and prosperity.  But whatever  AI might  be able  to do in the future,  right now,  we confront  it 
as a powerful  new  tool.  Even  one of the leading  providers  of generative AI  has characterized  AI’s 
abilities  as being  several  steps  away  from  being  capable  of 
Frank  Cullen , Executive  Director  
Andrei  Iancu , Co-Chair  
David  Kappos , Co-Chair  
Judge  Paul Michel  (Ret.),  Board  Member  
Judge Kathleen  O’Malley  (Ret.),  Board  Member  


21 [1]Rachel Metz, OpenAI Scale Ranks Progress Toward ‘Human -Level’ Problem Solving , Bloomberg (July 11, 2024), https:// www.
bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024 -07-11/openai -sets-levels -to-track -progress -toward -superintelligent -ai.
[2]Benj  Edwards,  OpenAI  Reportedly  Nears  Breakthrough  With  “Reasoning”  AI, Reveals  Progress  Framework , Ars Technica
(July 12, 2024), https://arstechnica.com/information -technology/2024/07/openai -reportedly -nears -breakthrough -with -reasoning -ai- 
reveals -progress -framework /.inventiveness,1 and to put this in context,  these  statements  were  viewed  as overambitious “hype”  by 
others.2 Looking  at AI from  this perspective,  it is not a unique  challenge  to the patent  system,  which  has 
had to regularly  accommodate  the emergence  of new  technological tools in the past.  
Accordingly,  C4IP  is concerned  that too much  regulation  of AI could  be counterproductive and  result  in 
stifling  this emergent  technology,  as well as the development  of other technologies  that will benefit  
from  it. We believe  that it is largely  premature  for the Office  to have AI -specific guidance at this time.  
For that reason,  we believe  that if the USPTO  issues  guidance,  it should  adopt  policies  that increase  
innovation  in the AI space,  including  innovation  in all areas  generated  with  AI tools.  In doing  so, the 
Office  should  consider,  if anything,  setting  forth  explicit  procedures for  examiners  to seek  guidance  in 
difficult  or novel  cases.  Identifying  and focusing  on such cases  will allow  for the Office  to take  positions  
in light  of concrete  facts  and will help  to crystallize  key disputes  for the courts.  Any additional  examiner  
guidance  should  be limited to  what  is strictly  necessary  for routine  examination  rather  than  addressing  
the most extreme hypothetical cases.  
Focusing  on process  is also appropriate  given  that the legal  issues  posed  by the Office’s request  can only  
be answered  definitively  by case  law or legislation.  By issuing  guidance that  is too prescriptive  prior  to 
such  legal  developments,  the USPTO  risks  denying  patents that  it should  have  granted,  potentially  
directly  harming  innovation  dependent  on AI. By imposing  unnecessary  new  “duties”  related  to AI, the 
USPTO  risks  creating  routine  bases for inequitable  conduct  allegations  for patents  relating  to AI (or even  
patents  unrelated  to AI, which  could  face  challenges  that they  might  have  used  AI). This will weaken  the 
value  of all patents,  especially  AI-related  patents,  hurting  incentives  to invest  in these  promising  areas.  
While  the ongoing  development  of the AI field  may  present  many  sweeping  changes,  such as the 
accelerated  proliferation  of art and greater  synthesizing  abilities,  these  developments are not without  
precedent  in the patenting  space.  Moreover,  such  developments  have  the potential  not to crowd  out 
human  invention  but rather  aid in its effectiveness  in improving the  human  condition.  Accordingly,  AI 
— like any new  technological  tool — should  be encouraged  rather  than  stifled  for fear of what  it will 
bring.  


22  
 [3] Beckman  Instruments,  Inc. v. LKB  Produkter  AB, 892 F.2d 1547,  1551  (Fed.  Cir. 1989).  
[4] Geo M. Martin  Co. v. Alliance  Mach.  Sys. Int’l LLC,  618 F.3d 1294,  1302 -1303  (Fed.  Cir. 2010).  
[5] In re Borst, 52 C.C.P.A. 1398, 1403 (1965) (“[T]he criterion should be whether the disclosure is sufficient to enable one ski lled 
in the art to reduce the disclosed invention to practice. In other words, the disclosure must be such as will give possession  of the 
invention to the person of ordinary skill. Even the act of publication or the fiction of constructive reduction to practice w ill not 
suffice if the disclosure does not meet this standard.”).   
In light  of these  general  points,  we offer  the following  more  specific  responses  to the questions 
provided in the USPTO’s RFC:  
A. The Impact  of AI on Prior  Art 
 
1. In what  manner,  if any,  does  35 U.S.C.  102 presume  or require  that  a prior art  disclosure  be 
authored  and/or  published  by humans?  In what  manner, if  any,  does  non-human  authorship  
of a disclosure  affect  its availability  as prior art under 35 U.S.C. 102?  
The relevant  part of the statute  appears  silent  on this issue.  Section  102(a)(1),  which provides  the 
requirements  for non-patent  prior  art, does  not say anything  about  authorship, having  instead  a timing  
requirement  (before  the filing  date  of the application)  and a 
public  availability  requirement  for any printed  publication,  prior  use, or sale.  Whatever clarification  
courts  may  add to the statutory  text in the future,  there  seems  to be no current basis  for the Office  to 
assume  that there  is an implicit  exception  for AI-generated  prior  art. 
Treating  all prior  art the same  would  also ensure  that if an invention  were  already  publicly available,  it 
would  not be improperly  removed  from  the public  domain,  aligning  with  the core  functions  of the 
novelty  and non-obviousness  inquiries.  It also may  not be knowable whether  a given  reference  was 
partially  or completely  AI-generated,  and accordingly,  trying to formulate  a test based  on this distinction  
may  be unworkable.  
2. What types of AI -generated disclosures, if any, would be pertinent to patentability  
determinations  made  by the USPTO?  How  are such  disclosures currently  being  made  available  
to the public?  In what  other  ways,  if any, should such disclosures be made available to the 
public?  
Governing  law should  apply  here:  an AI-generated  disclosure  should  be considered  for “for all  that it 
teaches”  if it qualifies  as prior  art under  § 102.3 Thus,  it could  form  the basis  of an obviousness  rejection  
even  if its examples  are inoperable,4 though  this would  prevent  the disclosure from being anticipating.5 
 
 
 


23 C4IP  does  not have  firsthand  knowledge  about  how  AI-generated  disclosures  are being  made public  but 
believes  that the USPTO  should  ensure  that examiners  have  access  to the same sources  of prior  art that 
would  be readily  available  to people  working  in that field.  These efforts  are especially  important  for non-
patent  literature  before  there  is a larger  storehouse of AI -related patents.  
3. If a party  submits  to the Office  a printed  publication  or other  evidence  that the party knows
was AI -generated, should that party notify the USPTO
of this fact,  and if so, how?  What  duty,  if any,  should  the party  have  to determine
whether a disclosure was AI -generated?
The Office  should  create  no new  duty  on applicants  to make  affirmative  representations about  prior  
art references  beyond  simply  disclosing  them  to the Office  under  the existing duty  of candor.  
Applicants  currently  do not provide  supplemental  information  about  such disclosures  unless  they  are 
material,  and they  should  not now  have  to disclose  anything new  about  AI authorship.  It is unclear  
what  benefit  such  a duty  would  provide  since  this information,  as discussed  above,  would  not affect  
a reference’s  status  as prior  art. 
The Office  also should  not create  a new  duty  to investigate  whether  a reference  was 
AI-generated.  As noted  above,  it may  not even  be possible  to know  if a reference  is solely  or partially  AI-
generated,  even  after  a diligent  inquiry.  Imposing  such  a duty  is likely  to lead to  a raft of inequitable  
conduct  charges  should  a patent  ever  be asserted,  even  if applicants made  a good -faith  basis  to 
comply  with  the requirement.  
4. Should  an AI-generated  disclosure  be treated  differently  than  a non-AI- generated
disclosure for prior art purposes? For example:
a.Should  the treatment  of an AI-generated  disclosure  as prior  art depend  on the  extent of
human  contribution  to the  AI-generated  disclosure?
b.How  should  the fact that  an AI-generated  disclosure  could  include  incorrect information  (e.g.,
hallucinations)  affect  its consideration  as a prior  art disclosure?
c.How  does  the fact that  a disclosure  is AI-generated  impact  other  prior  art considerations,
such  as operability,  enablement,  and public  accessibility?
As discussed  above,  AI-generated  prior  art should  not automatically  be treated  differently than any 
other prior art.  


24  
 [6] See In re Cronyn, 890 F.2d 1158, 1161 (Fed. Cir. 1989) (“[T]he three student theses were not accessible to the public because 
they had not been either cataloged or indexed in a meaningful way.”).  
[7] In re Morsa, 713 F.3d 104, 110 (Fed. Cir. 2013) (“When a reference appears to not be enabling on its face, a challenge may 
be lodged  without  resort  to expert  assistance.  Here,  Morsa  identified  specific,  concrete  reasons  why he believed  the short  press 
release at issue was not enabling, and the Board and the examiner failed to address these arguments.”).  
[8] See In re Antor Media Corp., 689 F.3d 1282, 1289 (Fed. Cir. 2012) (“[A]n examiner is entitled to reject claims as anticipated by 
a prior art publication or patent without conducting an inquiry into whether or not that prior art reference is enabling.”).   
That  some  or all of the reference  was AI-generated  might  be introduced  in prosecution,  if at all,  if an 
applicant  believes  it is relevant  in responding  to an examiner’s  objection,  consistent with  current  
practice.  This approach  would  allow  appropriate  consideration  of the relevance of  AI-generation  on a 
case -by-case  basis  as it relates  to the factual  issues  underpinning  the relevant  legal  doctrine.  For 
example,  an applicant  could  argue  that a reference  is not truly public  because  it is functionally  
inaccessible  due to being  unindexed.6 References  relied  upon by the examiner  that have  apparent  
defects  would  not necessarily  require  more  than  an argument  for rebuttal,  though  evidence  may  be 
necessary  in other  cases.7 
This approach  would  also allow  applicants  to challenge  legal  doctrines  if an applicant believes  that the 
doctrine  should  be refined  to account  for whether  some  or all of the prior art is AI-generated.  For 
example,  if an applicant  wishes  to challenge  the legal  presumption that a prior  art reference  should  be 
deemed  enabled  if it was generated  by AI, then  the 
AI-generated  status  of the prior  art reference  would  be relevant  and need  to be identified.8 
 
5. At what point, if  ever, could  the volume  of AI-generated  prior  art be sufficient  to create  
an undue  barrier  to the patentability  of inventions? At what point, if  ever, could  the 
volume  of AI-generated  prior  art be sufficient  to detract  from  the public  accessibility  of 
prior  art (i.e.,  if a 
PHOSITA  exercising  reasonable  diligence  may  not be able  to locate  relevant disclosures)?  
C4IP  does  not believe  there  is any need  at this time  to be concerned  with  the volume  of AI -
generated  materials  that will be produced.  There  is already  a tremendous  volume  of prior  art that 
can only  be fully  surveyed  with  machine -assisted  searches.  AI seems  likely to  increase  both  the 
volume  of prior  art and search  capabilities,  but regardless,  this is a 
problem  that patent  law already  confronts  and is able  to address  with  its current  doctrines,  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


25 [9]See, e.g. , In re Wiggins, 488 F.2d 538, 543 (C.C.P.A. 1973) (discussing enablement for purposes of whether a reference was
anticipating) (“The mere naming of a compound in a reference, without more, cannot constitute a description of the compound,
particularly when, as in this case, the evidence of record suggests that a method suitable for its preparation was not develo ped
until a date later than that of the reference. / If we were to hold otherwise, lists of thousands of theoretically possible c ompounds
could be generated and published which, assuming it would be within the level of skill in the art to make them, would bar a
patent to the actual discoverer of a named compound no matter how beneficial to mankind it might be. In view of the fact that  the
purpose sought to be effectuated by the patent law is the encouragement of innovation, such a result would be repugnant to th e
statute.”);  cf. In  re Baird,  16 F.3d  380, 383  (Fed. Cir.  1994) (“A  disclosure of  millions of  compounds does  not render  obvious a  claim
to three compounds, particularly when that disclosure indicates a preference leading away from the claimed compounds.”); see also
LKQ Corp. v. GM Glob. Tech. Operations LLC, 102 F.4th 1280, 1296 (Fed. Cir. 2024) (en banc) (“The analogous art requirement
reins in the scope of prior art and serves to guard against hindsight.”) (holding that the analogous art test applies to desi gn
patents).
[10] See In re GPAC  Inc., 57 F.3d 1573,  1579  (Fed.  Cir. 1995).
[11] Sam Altman, Who Will Control the Future of AI? Washington Post (July 25, 2024) (“Systems such as ChatGPT, Copilot and
others  are functioning  as limited  assistants  – for instance,  by writing  up patient  visits  so nurses  and doctors  can spend  more
time with the sick, or serving as more advanced assistants in certain domains , such as code generation for software engineering.”)
(emphasis added), https:// www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2024/07/25/sam -altman -ai-democracy -authoritarianism -future /.including  whether  the art was available  to the public,  enabled  or operable,  or from  an analogous 
field.9 
B.The Impact  of AI on a PHOSITA
6. Does  the term  “person”  in the PHOSITA  assessment  presume  or require that the “person”
is a natural person, i.e., a human? How, if at all, does the  availability  of AI as a tool affect
the level  of skill of a PHOSITA  as AI becomes  more  prevalent?  For example,  how  does  the
availability  of AI
affect  the analysis  of the PHOSITA  factors,  such  as the rapidity  with  which innovations are made and the
sophistication of the technology?
Answering  whether  a PHOSITA  is a natural  person  seems  unnecessary  given  that the PHOSITA  has 
already  been  deemed  to have  many  features  no real human  could  have,  such as  knowledge  of all 
relevant  prior  art in the field,  combined  with  limitations  that a human faces,  such  as only  having  access  
to a universe  of prior  art subject  to reasonable  limits, based  on the doctrines  of analogous  art and 
public  accessibility.10 
Given  that the PHOSITA  is an existing  legal  framework  that the Office  cannot  unilaterally change,  yet a 
framework  that is sensitive  to evolving  facts,  the critical  question  set forth  in the RFC is the impact that 
AI as a tool will have on a PHOSITA. AI, as a tool, is likely to help  a PHOSITA  in many  ways  that will 
effectively  increase  a PHOSITA’s  level  of skill.  For example,  AI may  make  it more  practical  for a PHOSITA  
to consider  prior  art from  a wider range  of fields.  The way in which  AI will impact  a PHOSITA  is likely  to 
vary  significantly by  technology  area,  at least  at the moment.11 The ways  in which  AI will evolve  and be 
used in  different  fields  are currently  unclear  and rapidly  changing.  


26  
 [12] USPTO,  Manual  of Patent  Examining  Procedure  (MPEP)  (Ninth  Edition,  Revision  07.2022)  [hereinafter  “MPEP”]  § 2141.03.  
[13] USPTO, Patent Examiner Technical Training Program , (last visited July 24, 2024), https:// www.uspto.gov/patents/initiatives/  
patent -examiner -technical -training -program ; Kathi Vidal, Latest Updates on Artificial Intelligence and Intellectual Property , 
Director’s Blog (Sept. 29, 2023) (“In fiscal year 2023, through PETTP, we held over 200 AI training courses, which were viewe d 
over 8,000 times by our examiners. These programs keep patent examiners up to date on the latest technological developments, 
emerging trends, and recent innovations, including in AI.”), https:// www.uspto.gov/blog/latest -updates -on-artificial -intelligence .  
The current  ways  in which  examiners  infer  a PHOSITA’s  level  of skill — from  prior  art references  and 
from  an examiner’s  own  expertise  in the technology  area  — are likely  to be the  best  way to ensure  that 
assumptions  about  a PHOSITA  remain  current  and account  for changing  advances  in AI.12 These  sources  
can be reinforced  by educational  seminars  on how AI  is currently  being  used  in different  technology  
areas  through  programs  like the USPTO’s Patent  Examiner  Technical  Training  Program  (PETTP),  as it 
appears  the Office  is already doing.13 
To the extent  guidance  is issued,  the USPTO  could  encourage  examiners  to set forth  their 
understanding  of a PHOSITA  with  particular  attention  to what  is being  attributed  to AI, especially  if 
such  an assumption  is critical  to the rejection,  for example,  to establish  why a  reference  from  a 
seemingly  unrelated  field  of technology  is appropriate  as part of the examiner’s  rejection.  Stating  
these  assumptions  explicitly  will also allow  the applicant  to 
respond  with  its own  assessment  of a PHOSITA  and for the prosecution  history  record  to be developed 
on this issue.  
7. How,  if at all, should  the USPTO  determine  which  AI tools  are in common use and whether 
these tools are presumed to be known and used by a PHOSITA in a particular art?  
The rapidly  changing  nature  of AI and the varied  ways  it is used  in different  fields  counsel against  
Office -wide  guidance  on a PHOSITA’s  presumed  use of AI. Too prescriptive  of a formulation  will result  in 
examiners  assessing  a PHOSITA  of too high  a skill in some  patent applications  and too low in others.  C4IP  
reincorporates  its answer  to Question  6, explaining why  current  doctrines  account  for AI’s use and how  
corps -wide  education  on AI could  help set  a relevant  shared  understanding  for examiners  that is 
appropriately  technology -specific.  
8. How,  if at all, does  the availability  to a PHOSITA  of AI as a tool impact:  
 
a. Whether  something  is well -known  or common  knowledge  in the art? 
 
b. How  a PHOSITA  would  understand  the meaning  of claim  terms?  
 
 
 
 


27 [14] See K/S HIMPP  v. Hear -Wear  Techs.,  LLC,  751 F.3d 1362,  1366  (Fed.  Cir. 2014)  (“Although  a patent  examiner  may rely on
common knowledge to support a rejection, that is appropriate only in narrow circumstances.”).
[15] See In re Sneed, 710 F.2d 1544, 1548 (Fed. Cir. 1983) (“[C]laims in an application are to be given their broadest reasonable
interpretation  consistent  with  the specification,  and that claim  language  should  be read in light  of the specification  as it would  be
interpreted by one of ordinary skill in the art.”) (internal citation omitted).AI may  expand  the common  base  of knowledge  available  to a PHOSITA,  but this impact  will be  best  
assessed  on a case -by-case  basis  with  examiners  using  already -established  methods to  define  a 
PHOSITA.  The caution  urged  by current  case  law on when  an examiner  may properly  rely on well-
known  knowledge  in the art as part of a rejection,  without  citation  to any source, should apply here.14 
AI may  also have  an impact  on how  a PHOSITA  understands  a claim  term.15 AI might accordingly  be 
informative  to the examiner  when  construing  claims,  but caution  should  be used  if and when  referring  
to these  sources.  For example,  a dictionary  that is published after  the filing  date  of a patent  application  
would  not automatically  be a relevant  source  of information  about  a term’s  likely  meaning,  and neither  
should  a publicly  available  source  of generative  AI, whose  output  may  be informed  by materials  created  
after  the filing  date  of the application being examined.  
9. In view  of the availability  to a PHOSITA  of AI as a tool,  how,  if at all, is an obviousness
determination affected, including when:
a.Determining  whether  art is analogous  to the claimed  invention,  given  AI’s ability  to search
across  art fields?  Does  the “analogous”  art standard  still make sense in view of AI’s
capabilities?
b.Determining  whether  there  is a rationale  to modify  the prior  art, including the  example
rationales  suggested  by KSR (MPEP  2143,  subsection  I) (e.g., “obvious  to try”)  or the
scientific  principle  or legal  precedent  rationales (MPEP 2144)?
c.Determining  whether  the modification  yields  predictable  results  with  a reasonable
expectation  of success  (e.g.,  how  to evaluate  the predictability of results  in view  of the
stochasticity (or  lack of predictability)  of an AI system)?
d.Evaluating  objective  indicia  of obviousness  or nonobviousness  (e.g., commercial
success,  long  felt but unsolved  needs,  failure  of others, simultaneous invention,
unexpected results, copying, etc.)?


28  
 [16] See MPEP § 2128(E), (F) (discussing how the examiner should document time stamps associated with references obtained 
from the Wayback Machine or social media, and how applicants can rebut the accuracy of whether the reference was publicly 
available at the relevant time).   
AI, as a tool,  is likely  to have  some  degree  of impact  on each  of the legal  doctrines  set forth in  this 
question,  but exactly  how  it will do so will be fact-specific  and should  be determined on  a case -by-case  
basis,  as it is for all other  tools  and technologies  that are also changing  all the time.  
As AI may  be expected  to increase  the number  of suggestions  in the prior  art to combine existing  
elements,  to combine  prior  art from  disparate  fields,  or to suggest  sometimes random  “results,”  to the 
extent  that the Office  issues  guidance,  it might  be helpful  to reiterate  the role of the various  legal  
doctrines  that provide  limits  to obviousness,  including whether  prior  art is enabled,  whether  it is from  an 
analogous  field,  and how  to weigh objective indicia of non -obviousness.  
10. How,  if at all, does  the recency  of the information  used  to train  an AI model or  that  ingested  by 
an AI model  impact  the PHOSITA  assessment  when  that assessment may focus  on an earlier  
point in  time  (e.g., the  effective  filing date  of the claimed  invention  for an application  
examined  under  the First - Inventor -to-File provisions of the America Invents Act)?  
Examiners  must  constantly  be wary  of hindsight  bias infecting  their  analysis  when  they  are using  any 
technology  to assist  in the examination  process.  This is why it is appropriate  for examiners  to base  their  
rejections  on art that is readily  identifiable  as prior  art — publicly available  references  having  some  
indication  that they  were  available  before  the priority  date of the patent  application,  as the Office  
currently  encourages  for certain  internet  sources.16 Ongoing  development  of AI models  likewise  counsels  
against  their  use directly  by examiners to suggest  that claims  in a patent  application  must  have  been  
obvious  (for example,  by entering  prompts  into a publicly  available  AI model).  
11. How, if  at all, does  the availability to a PHOSITA of  AI as  a tool  impact the enablement  
determination  under  35 U.S.C.  112(a)?  Specifically,  how  does  it impact  the consideration  of 
the In re Wands  factors  (MPEP  2164.01(a))  in ascertaining  whether  the experimentation  
required  to enable  the full scope of the claimed invention is reasonable or undue?  
 
 
 
 
 
 


29 [17] In re Wands,  858 F.2d 731, 737 (Fed.  Cir. 1988)  (factors  to be considered  in assessing  enablement  “include  (1) the quantity  of
experimentation necessary, (2) the amount of direction or guidance presented, (3) the presence or absence of working examples ,
(4)the nature  of the invention,  (5) the state  of the prior  art, (6) the relative  skill of those  in the art, (7) the predictability  or
unpredictability of the art, and (8) the breadth of the claims.”) (emphasis added).The capabilities  of a PHOSITA  inform  the enablement  inquiry.17 Because  AI likely  
will effectively  increase  the capabilities  of a PHOSITA,  use of AI should  factor  into the enablement  
analysis  in appropriate  cases.  But given  the wide  disparities  in where  AI is most  developed,  in 
conjunction  with  its varied  usage  across  different  fields  of technology,  it is not possible  or advisable  to try 
to make  blanket  statements  about  AI. The relevance  of AI to  a PHOSITA,  and in turn,  analysis  of 
enablement,  should  be done  on a case -by-case  basis following existing law.  
C.The Implications  of AI That  Could  Require  Updated  Examination  Guidance and/or Legislative
Change
12. What  guidance  from  the USPTO  on the impact  of AI on prior  art and on the knowledge  of a
PHOSITA,  in connection  with  patentability  determinations made by the Office, would be
helpful?
C4IP  believes  that AI-specific  guidance  would  largely  be premature  at this time.  If guidance is  issued,  C4IP  
urges  it to explain  how  existing  legal  doctrines  are capable  of handling  
AI-related  changes,  to avoid  creating  new,  unneeded  duties  on patent  applicants  that may lead  to 
spurious  future  inequitable  conduct  allegations,  and to provide  guidance  on how examiners  can seek  
assistance  in difficult  or novel  cases.  While  not strictly  necessary,  C4IP also  believes  that guidance  could  
reiterate  that examiners  should  consider  existing  legal limitations  when  assessing  anticipation  and 
obviousness,  such  as whether  the art is enabled, from  an analogous  field,  and how  to weigh  objective  
indicia  of non-obviousness.  
13. In addition  to the considerations  discussed  above,  in what  other  ways,  if any, does  the
proliferation  of AI impact  patentability  determinations  made  by the Office  (e.g.,  under  35 U.S.C.
101,  102,  103,  112,  etc.)?
C4IP  believes  that this question  is best answered  through  the development  of law in individual cases  before  
the Office  and before  the courts,  absent  any change  in the law from  Congress.  
14. Are there  any laws  or practices  in other  countries  that  effectively  address any  of the questions
above?  If so, please  identify  them  and explain  how  they can  be adapted  to fit within  the
framework  of U.S. patent law.


30 [18] See, e.g., Javier Espinoza,  Europe’s Rushed  Attempt to  Set the  Rules for  AI, Financial  Times (July  15, 2024).C4IP  reiterates  that it is primarily  concerned  with  overly  prescriptive  regulation  related  to AI. Such  efforts  
have  been  criticized  in other  jurisdictions.18 
15. Should title 35 of the U.S. Code be amended to account for any of the considerations  set
forth  in this notice,  and if so, what  specific  amendments do you propose?
C4IP  is not advocating  for legislative  changes  at this time.  
* * * 
C4IP  again  thanks  the USPTO  for the opportunity  to provide  its input  in response  to this  request  for 
comments  and would  be pleased  to provide  any further  input  that may  be requested.  
Sincerely,  
Frank Cullen 
Executive  Director  
Council  for Innovation  Promotion  (C4IP)  


