Respon se to the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National 
Coordination Office (NCO), National Science Foundation Request for Information on the Development of 
an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Submit ted by:  
Simon Szykman, Ph.D.  
President  
Cambio Digital Transformations  
1278 Woodbrook Ct.  
Reston, VA 20194  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan 
and associated documents without attribution.  
Moore’s  Law and the Future Economics and Bifurcation of the AI Market  
Bottom  Line Up Front : The trends associated with computing power and the accompanying history of the 
computing industry tell a compelling story that is highly relevant to the emerging AI  market . It is essential for policy 
makers, funders of R&D, corporate technology leaders, and investors to make decisions based on an 
understanding of these trends, and a recognition that the evolution of AI technology will , if anything, accelerate 
more rapidly than it did with traditional computers.  Failing to recognize the inflection point that lies ahead could 
result in policies or investments that incentivize suboptimal behaviors, decisions that are misaligned with where the market is going, or placing bets that fail to capitalize on the true potential of AI technologies.  And here’s why…  
Intel co-founder Gordon Moore’s most famous observation -turned -prediction was that the number of transistors on 
a microchip was doubling and would continue to do so approximately every two years . Now known as Moore’s 
Law, this trend has evolved and is often referenced in ways that are more general than just referring to quantity of 
transistors, but has nevertheless turned out to be a consistently effective characterization of the exponential 
growth of computing power.  (For the curious, at the high end of performance, Top500.org shows trends of 
supercomputer speeds for the past 3+ decades at https://top500.org/statistics/perfdevel/ .) 
In the domain of AI, we are now  in an era where AI performance, across varying measures of performance 
ranging from the practical (cost) to the technical (training floating point operations per second) to the abstract 
(“intelligence”), appears to be increasing at a rate that exceeds that of Moore’s Law.  I am by no means the first 
person to note this trend – it has been publicly discussed by academic researchers, OpenAI CEO Sam Altman, as 
well as NVIDIA CEO Jensen Huang, who referred to the trend as with a catchy term: “ Hyper Moore’s Law ”. This 
rapid pace of change has led to important outcome s, such as significantly greater AI compute capacity, more 
complex and sophisticated (i.e., “intelligent ”) AI models , increasing efficiencies and decreasing costs for a 
unit/fixed amount of AI capability , and increasingly rapid development/training/release cycles for new and more 
capable models . As a result of these improvements, AI technology has become far more accessible, leading to 
new use cases,  and applications of AI in ways that had not been previously contemplated.  
On the research side of the computing industry, investments continue to be made in the development of new 
technologies to sustain further advancements.  Just as GPUs evolved into the foundation of many AI systems 
when traditional CPUs could not support increasingly high AI workloads, new types of specialized hardware are 
being developed to support modern and future needs.  These include things like t ensor processing units, 


neuromorphic chips, other new technologies still under development, and almost certainly future ones that have 
not yet been conceived.  
There i s little doubt that AI will have transformational impacts on society by driving improvements in virtually every 
sector of the economy.  These changes will contribute to significant economic growth as well as evolution of 
entirely new types of value creation.  The untapped potential has yielded massive jumps in valuations of 
companies in the AI market, a nd has led to planned investments on the scale of tens of billions of dollars for 
hardware and data centers to support this rapidly accelerating market.  Some reporting suggests that the trending 
of these infrastructure  investments is heading to ward  trillions of dollars  (though conversely, there are also early 
indications that the market may have overestimated the future demand for AI datacenter capacity) . 
But interestingly, while there is plenty of talk about growth in the AI market, there is not much in the way of 
analytical projection s of the economics of this market viewed through the lens of Moore’s (or perhaps more 
accurately Hyper Moore’s) Law . The history of the computing market has important implications for the future of 
the AI market.  More specifically, past computing trends suggesting a future time where there might be a 
downward inflection in some of the AI -driven economic trends, or when the market might s plit into two separate 
paths – one for commodity and another for high-performance – as it has with the traditional computing market.  
It has  been said that the modern smartphone has more processing  power than the computers that landed people 
on the moon or that were in the space shuttle.  This was already true for  earlier generations of smartphones that 
existed years ago, so  let’s look at comparisons with some more modern commodity hardware.  One variant of t he 
new Qualcom m Snapdragon 8 Elite processor used in some of today’s flagship smartphones has a GPU 
benchmark speed of over 3.6 trillion floating point operations per second (teraflops, or TFLOPS) . Twenty years 
ago, fewer than 100 of the fastest supercomputers in the world had the processing power that people can now 
hold in their hands . The high- end NVIDIA GeForce RTX 5090 graphics card has a benchmark speed of 314 
TFLOPS. Ten years ago, fewer than 220 of the fastest supercomputers in the world had the processing power that 
consumers can now buy for their gaming computers . I acknowledge that not all benchmarks are the same, so 
please grant me some literary (or should I say numerical) license, since it would take only a shift in the number of 
years cited for the general point to remain valid.  
Let me off er some thoughts on what this mean s for the AI market  of the future. S upercomputers existed twenty 
years ago , but the needs driving the market for the fastest supercomputers in the world were not driving the 
consumer market for computers.  The same was true ten years ago, and still today  the market for supercomputers 
exists, but is not driving the consumer computer market.  There is an extremely wide span between the economics 
of (both investments required for and profits  emerging from ) building com puters at the highest of the high end vs. 
the commoditized market where the average consumer makes purchases.  I believe we will see very similar trends 
in the AI market.  Numerous companies today have built AI capabilities that the average person can access via 
their computer or smartphone.  Massive investment has gone into making this possible, and one needs only an 
internet connection to reach the massively -powered (and costly) infrastructures  that deliver these capabilities.  
Follow ing a Moore’s Law trend for AI technologies that parallels the trend of computers , one could reasonably 
assume that in 10 years people may have the same capability running locally on their desktop computers with 
consumer -level investment , and in 20 years those capabilities may run locally on a smartphone at a cost point 
that is absorbed into the cost of a phone ( just as you don’t pay extra for a GPU when you buy a smart phone  
today ). Now take note once again that the AI technology trends have followed the so-called Hyper Moore’s Law 
trajectory – faster than Moore’s Law – and consider that the progression from massive computational 
infrastructures to PC cards to chips on a smartphone might happen much more quickly for AI technologies.  
A handful  of years from now, there will almost certainly continue to be a need for computing infrastructures that 
run uniquely high- end AI workloads  (analogous to the specialized applications that drive the need for today’s 
supercomputers), and there may be significant investment going into those systems.  But that market will be an 
offshoot that splinters off from a much larger commoditized consumer- driven market for AI.  Just as today’s 
consumers have no need for the power of today’s supercomputers  (at least not at the price point they come with) , 
there will be a time not too far off when the vast majority of people don’t need more than what they have available 
from a machine on their desk, or in the palm of their hand.  And as was the case with the computing market, the 
bulk of the investment and profits will be driven by the consumer market rather than the most capable of the high-
end systems.   


Today, there is a race to achieve faster, more accurate, more “intelligent” AI systems.  But once AI becomes fast 
enough and intelligent enough, the market will reach an inflection point, and the race will shift to one that aims to 
commoditize “good enough”, make it less expensive, put it on a PC card, and then put it on a chip. In the long 
term, there will continue to be companies that make massive infrastructure investments to stay at the bleeding 
edge – the top 10 or top 100 fastest , most accurate, most intelligent AI systems.  But those are not necessarily the 
companies that will reap the bi ggest rewards  from the market.  The companies that do will be the ones that identify 
when the point of “good enough” has been reached, and instead work to drive the cost of AI to where it becomes 
a significant feature that is accompanied by a modest if not negligible cost.  
Reiter ating the bottom line (now at the bottom): The trends associated with computing power and the 
accompanying history of the computing industry tell a compelling story.  It is essential for policy makers, funders of 
R&D, corporate technology leaders, and investors to make decisions based on an understanding of these trends, 
and a recognition that the evolution of AI technology will , if anything, accelerate more rapidly than it did with 
traditional computers.  Failing to recognize the inflection point that lies ahead could result in policies or 
investments that incentivize suboptimal behaviors, decisions that are misaligned with where the market is going, 
or placing bets that  fail to capitalize on the true potential of AI technologies.  
Govern ment thought leaders involved in drafting the AI Action Plan  should not only anticipate that this change 
will occur at some point, but should draft a plan built around the expectation that it will, and should be designed in 
a way that can rapidly react to both evolving technologies and a changing market for AI.  
About the Author  
Simon Szykman, Ph.D.,  is the co -Founder and President of Cambio Digital Transformations, where he is 
leveraging nearly 30 years of technology and business leadership experience to carry out leading- edge 
technology -enabled transformations of how clients deliver their mission and services to stakeholders.   
Prior  to founding Cambio, Simon served as the Senior Vice President for Client Growth at Maximus, where he 
was responsible for leading a 45+ person growth team and enabling the go- to-market strategy for the company’s 
Federal Services Segment.  He joined Maximus when the company acquired Attain, where Simon was a Partner 
and Chief Technology Officer .  
Prior  to joining Attain, Simon spent nearly 20 years in diverse government technology roles . His previous positions 
include serving as the Chief Information Officer (CIO) of the U.S. Department of Commerce, CIO of Commerce’s 
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), two stints at  the White House Office of Science and 
Technology Policy  (including serving as the Director of the National Coordination Office for Networking and IT 
R&D) , and the first Director of Cyber Security R&D at the Department of Homeland Security.   
About the Company  
Cam bio D igital Transformations is a team of visionary technologists, strategic consultants, and government 
innovation experts who empower our clients to imagine the art of the possible, and then bring their imagination to 
reality. Building on years of digital transformation experience, Cambio synthesizes a fusion of leading -edge 
technical capabilities, and an intense focus on customer experience, and human-centered design, to help fundamentally transform how our clients do what they do.  


