2/25/2025 via FDMS  
Caryn Gibson  
I am starting by quoting this statement from the WhiteHouse.gov website: "prevent unnecessarily 
burdensome requirements from hindering private sector innovation." I have a problem with this, 
because what leadership considers "unnecessarily burdensome" woul d be the guardrails 
protecting the American public from misery. AI development and deployment needs guardrails. I 
know that leadership does not care and will never care, but I am still going to say this: Stop 
trying to "move fast and break things." Governm ent is not and should never be run like a 
business. The point of businesses is to make money for individuals or small groups of people. 
Any service it provides to the public is not even secondary, but tertiary. Government is a separate 
entity from business  for a reason. The people deserve and require protections and services that a 
business is never going to offer them. When leadership pretends like the government is not only 
a business, but a start up, it is knowingly creating situations that will cause in efficiency for the 
government and misery for the people. Start -ups are not efficient so much as a negligent bet 
people with money place in the hopes that the risk pays off. They hope that they create enough 
capital to be "forgiven" if they don't pay people  properly, have a high rate of injury at their 
facilities, or damage the municipal property of locations they use to launch their products. They 
hurt people, make a mess, and leave the cost of clean -up to other parties. It is shameful to do that 
in the fir st place, but anyone who would run our government like this is unsuited for office 
(including unelected positions). I understand that AI is here, and it's here to stay, and I have no 
problem with reasonable AI use in a narrow set of circumstances. What is not appropriate is 
allowing the American people (or people from other nations) to suffer the inevitable chaos 
unfettered AI development and deployment will create. We don't need or want you to break 
government, healthcare, education, justice, the law, the arts, etc. with insufficiently tested AI 
technology. We don't have any desire for someone without any care for ethics to grind us into the 
dirt while a handful of you enjoy your gilded existence. Thank you for your consideration.  


