From: Cash Hartzell
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Cc: Cash Hartzell
Subject: [External] AI comment
Date: Sunday, March 16, 2025 11:31:39 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening  
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
My name is Patrick Cash Hartzell. I work in the creative fields as a producer of television and  
film as well as a writer for many genres and mediums. This act would threaten my  
employment and the employment of my peers. It also threatens to disrupt the passive royalties  
that has allowed the industry to exist. Also the people that own and develop this technology  
are for the most part, assholes and don’t deserve any success. Their continued success has  
marked the end of a time of prosperity in America. To have a class that doesn’t just not  
contribute anything but actually sucks the work of others like blood to make themselves richer  
is anti American and frankly anti-evolutionary. 
I also worry that in disemploying the entire creative class and forcing them into poverty would  
make a violent revolution much more palatable to the American people. And since the names  
of the people running this scam, both on the government side and the private sector, are in the  
public, I’m fairly sure some of you may be signing your own death/torture/dismemberment  
warrant. Some of history’s worst monsters and torturers were stymied creators. Just one  
individual not getting into art school led to million and millions dying in the holocaust. Can  
you imagine what an entire generation might get up to? I hope we never get there. By allowing  
copyright to stand and shutting down this proposal, I believe that we might avoid this great  
evil. 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government  
in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
Also if the s^&* I just wrote can be used without attribution, why did you need my name?
Sent from my iPhone


