From: Chelsea Winfree
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 11:10:59 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Hello there,
I am writing to express my great concern with the expedited journey into AI for the American
Government. AI typically is trained on stolen and unreliable information. Without the propervetting, AI can guide us to bad outcomes, unreliable narratives, and incorrect information.Further than that, it steals information from others without their permission in order to growand profit from it. This would become a legal nightmare for anyone and everyone involved. 
There should be extreme guardrails around the use and development of and with AI, and my
suggestions start here:
1.The building of an AI should be extensively moderated and managed.  It cannot be
trusted for anyone or anything to build and train an AI. Any data it has access to can resurface
whether desired or not.2.AI is not fully understood by the majority of people who use it.  Many folks are not
aware that they should approach the information being presented cautiously. AI can be usefuland help expedite things but one must be an extreme skeptic when engaging with it's content.AI has an incredibly hard time telling the truth. When interacting with the AI, it canhallucinate and attempt to
  come up with an answer to satisfy the query rather than answer
honestly. How can we prove the AI is reliable and truthful? Again, it must be moderated andmanaged careful.3.Anything an AI has been used to create must and should be vetted by a human. In
some cases, an AI can expedite a process; however, much like a great coding practice, allitems should be reviewed by a respected and trusted peer. This means that any time adocument is created or a decision is made it must not be acted upon with a human expert'seyes reviewing it. This means if a writer uses AI a separate unrelated writer should review thatwork.4.AI is expensive and could reduce some resources but will create new, worse, more
expensive problems. Many Americans have interacted with various AI chat bots, and many ofthose same Americans can tell you the various hilariously bad outcomes with these bots. Botscan confuse customers, create frustration, give incorrect information, and more. Through thelens of the American government, we can see these same sorts of bots and suggestionspropagating into
  larger more prolific and dangerous issues compared to a silly company chat
bot sending the customer bad or incorrect information. What if the result of an AI bot suggestdangerous actions to a citizen? What if it suggested unconstitutional or illegal actions? Wouldthe government official understand the full weight of that?5.AI will hurt Americans by stealing from them and then hurt more Americans by lying
to them. Companies, technologies, code, art, books, articles and more will train these AImodels and cause American entrepreneurs, small & large businesses, and organizationsdamage.
We do not know the full effects of the AI fad wave right now -- but we are already seeing


companies pulling away from their AI efforts as well. It is dangerous, It is untested, and
without proper guardrails we will see extensive damage to the people, the government,   & the
trusted relationship between both.
These are the most surface level of issues I can see; however, we have not yet begun to dig
into the security issues that can and will arise from such actions. Once the AI has been trainedon confidential information within the government? What protections will we have that theproper people with the proper clearance will have have access to the data that they should?Take the time to understand the full gravity of what training an AI model entails. How do youensure safety and security of who is using that information? Can you guarantee that the modelcan "forget" information it shouldn't have access to?
There has not been enough time to study and learn the ramifications of these sorts of actions.
Once the dangerous and scary information is out there -- there's no going back.
AI must be integrated with slowly, carefully, and with an extremely watchful eye. I want to
urge you to not rush into this and to ensure proper protections are in place for the Americanpeople and the government as well.
Thank you,Chelsea Winfree
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


