From: Chelsea Chung
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Monday, March 17, 2025 9:21:23 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
I would like to submit my comment on a potential AI Action Plan as a private citizen and
party directly impacted by the use of AI in creative fields.
I firmly believe that a large investment in AI,  specifically  in regards to AI's free access to both
copyrighted and public material available online and elsewhere, is overall detrimental to the
American workforce and people. I can only comment from the perspective of an individualwhose employment does not use AI in their workflow, but sees AI usage everyday. Withregards to the line "With the right governmental policies, continued U.S. AI leadership willpromote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security":
 
1. Promotion of human flourishing - I most commonly see AI in my daily life withinapplications such as Chat GPT and google search, as well as AI made art and writing withinmedia such as film and advertisements. This is arguably the most common way the averageAmerican sees AI being used. These usages outright discourage critical thinking, meaningfulsearches for knowledge, and creativity, but more importantly put humans at risk of losing theirjobs and right to their work. I am aware that OpenAI have been sued by newspapers andwriters for the unfair data scraping of their published works. Creatives are being cast aside bypotential employers in favor of AI tools that were egregiously trained on the writing and art ofothers. This has been seen in comic covers, film, even Youtube videos. This is not lettinghumans flourish, this puts human workers at risk in favor of AI-made work with none of thenuance, skills, and professionalism of a human being.
2. Economic competitiveness - I understand that the rest of the world is investing in AI at an
astonishing rate, but like I stated above, I believe that this ultimately puts human workforces atrisk. A few select companies and individuals may have better profit margins by using AI, butthis would come at the expense of thousands if not tens of thousands of jobs across manyfields. The creation of jobs within the energy sector would not account for the fact thatworkers across creative fields, education industries, medical fields, and more would losetheirs. Again, I believe AI-made work does not and cannot have the naunce of work made by askilled professional. I would not want AI to be used to educate our children nor be used insuch an important field as medical research.
3. National security - The usage of private data by private companies is already a huge
concern, and excarbated by AI. AI has already encroached on public online information andcopyrighted creative work, continued unrestricted access should not be encouraged.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on this issue. As a private citizen, I'm onlyconcerned by the direction AI is taking, and hope there can be more protections for theindividual rather than the companies that profit from unfettered data and AI usage.
 
Chelsea Chung


All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


