March 15, 202 5 
Submitted vi a the Federal eRulemaking Portal:  http://www.regulations.gov  and via email 
to: ostp -ai-rfi@nitrd.gov   
Faisal D’Souza  
National Coordination Office  
National Science Foundation  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
RE: Request for  Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan  
Dear Mr. D’Souz a: 
The College of H ealthcare Information Management Executives (CHIME) appreciates 
the opportunity to comment  on the Request for Information on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan , as published in the Federal Register  on February 
6, 2025 (Vol. 90, No. 24 ). We look forward to continuing to be a trusted stakeholder and 
resource to President Trump, his new Administration – and continuing to deepen the 
long- standing relationship we have shared.  
Background  
CHIME is an executive organization dedicated to serving chief information officers 
(CIOs), chief medical information officers (CMIOs), chief nursing information officers 
(CNIOs), chief innovation officers (CIOs), chief digital officers (CDOs) and other senior 
healthcare IT leaders. With more than 3,000 individual members in 58 countries and two U.S. territories and 200 CHIME Foundation healthcare IT business and professional service firm members, CHIME and its three associations provide a highly interactive, trusted environment enabling senior professional and industry leaders to collaborate, exchange best practices, address professional development needs, and advocate for 
the effective use of information management to improve the health and care in the communities they serve.  
Key Recommendatio ns and Takeaways  
CHIME applauds President Trump’s Executive Order 14179 – Removing Barriers to 
American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence – to establish U.S. policy for sustaining 
and enhancing America’s AI dominance in order to promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security. As noted in the Request for 


Information (RFI), this Executive Order directs the development of an AI Action Plan to 
advance America’s AI leadership, in a process led by the Assistant to the President for 
Science and Technology, the White House AI and Crypto Czar, and the National Security Advisor.  
CHIME app reciates that t he Trump Administration recognizes that with the right 
government policies, the United States can solidify its position as the leader in AI and secure a brighter future for all Americans. The Office of Science and 
Technology Policy ( OSTP ) is seeking  input on the highest priority policy actions that 
should be in the new AI Action Plan.  
We commend P resident Trump’s commitment to positioning America as the global 
leader in AI – ensuring a future of innovation, economic prosperity, and national 
security. CHIME  appreciates that the Administration recognizes the pivotal role that 
sound government policy plays in unleashing AI’s full potential and securing America’s leadership in this critical domain.
 By fostering direct engagement with key 
stakeholders through this RFI – particularly experts in healthcare information 
technology (IT) – the Administration is ensuring that the new AI Action Plan is 
informed by real -world expertise and aligned with national priorities.  
CHIME me mbers believe that any AI policies under consideration should provide clear 
and consistent guidance, eliminate redundancies, reduce regulatory burdens on providers, and create an environment that incentivizes responsible AI innovation. These princi ples are essential to driving confidence, investment, and sustained leadership in 
AI-powered healthcare solutions.  
We recogniz e that implementing AI at scale through hospitals and healthcare 
systems will require thoughtful and iterative policymaking, and we are 
encouraged by the Administration’s emphasis on reducing bureaucracy and fostering a pro- innovation regulatory environment. This is a pivotal time, which 
represents a generational opportunity to modernize healthcare, improve patient outcomes, lower costs, and position America  at the forefront of AI -driven 
advancements in healthcare. CHIME looks forward to continue d collaboration to 
ensure that AI policies reflect these objectives and serve the best interests of patients, providers, and the nation as a whole.   
Highest Pr iority Feedback for President Trump’s New AI Action Plan  
Healthcare del ivery organizations (HDOs) are under significant  pressure to meet a 
growing number  of federal and state policies that often are duplicative, 
unnecessary, and do not add value to their primary mission – which is patient 
care. There are significant cost -savings  – perhaps as much as a quarter of trillion 
dollars – that could be saved with greater administrative efficiencies.  CHIME  therefore is 
pleased that  President Trump’ s “Massive 10 -to-1 Deregulation Initiative,” as announced 
through his Executive Order “ Unleashing Prosperity Through Deregulation ,” could 
unlock some of these efficiencies . 


An overarching theme and concern CHIME members are facing right now is 
regulatory uncertainty. Some are concerned that we may be at a tipping point for 
healthcare organizations and their ability to meet, maintain and sustain regulatory 
requirements. Given this, many are extremely hesitant to move forward investing in 
and purchasing AI tools and solutions  without a better understanding of the regulatory 
landscape, which  has been challenging under the Biden administration. Uncertainty in 
healthcare drives up costs, disrupts our members financial planning, and undermines 
efforts to improve health and wellness for all Americans.  
Navigating an uncertain  regulatory and legal landscape makes it significantly 
more challenging for our members to invest in AI technology which helps 
America keep pace with innovation and the ever -growing cybersecurity threats 
from hostile nation states, including the People’s Republic of China (PRC). 
Cybersecurity, data protection, clinician education, initial costs and return on investment, and most importantly – patient safety – are all challenges our members are 
facing as they approach the responsible use of AI in their hospitals and healthcare systems. Hospitals and healthcare systems are also facing crucial competing 
priorities such as cybersecurity needs, expenses that directly support patient care, and operational costs like repairing essential infrastructure. These competing demands make it chal lenging to allocate resources effectively while 
still advancing technological innovations.  
Even the larges t and most resourced health systems – who have already invested 
countless hours and hundreds of millions of dollars into AI tools – list concerns with 
regulatory compliance as a top challenge. One such member noted that navigating rapidly evolving regulations surrounding AI in healthcare is arduous and costly. Further –members must balance high initial investment costs for AI implementation and
developing methodologies to quantify the return on investment for AI projects.
CHIME mem bers are currently navigating the complexities of AI adoption amidst 
an already intricate , complex  regulatory landscape  in healthcare . The uncertainty 
surrounding future regulations further complicates their efforts. We are eager to 
collaborate with the Administration and provide much- needed clarity and stability 
through the AI Action Plan.   
Our members bel ieve that any future policies, frameworks, and the AI Action Plan 
should be driven by a clear understanding of the purpose (why) and the methods (what) of using AI in healthcare. This approach ensures that AI development is effective and it 
safeguards  patient data, while enabling innovation. In other words, the primary 
considerations for any future policies should be the intended use and benefits of the AI technology.  Policies  should be flexible and adaptive, ensuring they protect 
patients witho ut stifling technological advancement. This will promote the 
innovative use of AI, ensuring it can improve healthcare delivery while 
maintaining patient safety and privacy, as well as data security.  
CHIME me mbers wish to convey that the usage of the term “AI” is extremely broad. AI 
is a language in itself – varying from  natural language processing ( NLP) to data 


aggre gation tools. Importantly, there are differences between “predictive AI” and 
“generative A I” which must be recognized, as they are two distinct types of AI, each with 
different functionalities and applications. Additionally, they are used in two very separate 
and distinct areas of a healthcare organization – administrative and clinical. It is 
important to ask our members what they are using, and why they are using it.  
CHIME memb ers have voiced excitement – and concerns – about the speed and 
promises of AI tools. They, however, recognize that innovation could quickly devolve into a situation of “haves” and “have nots.” The “have nots” cannot afford 
to implement AI solutions and will continue to lag behind their more well -resourced 
counterparts. While the work of “the haves”  are, of course, of great import, they will 
continue to invest in AI tools and  are currently doing so in a thoughtful and cautious 
manner, while staying alert to the inherent risks that accompany AI being introduced into their organization.  
Due to the cost of implementing an AI tool within a hospital or healthcare system, many 
of our members are simply unable to afford them – and the state of AI in hospitals and 
healthcare systems is currently directly dependent upon the size and type of organization. Larger, more resourced hospitals and health centers are at the forefront of 
the AI frontier in healthcare, using it in innovative ways to do things we didn’t think were possible a few years ago.  
Our members who are currently utilizing or planning to utilize AI tools have or are 
working to put a level of governance and oversight in place for both the clinical and operational processes . However, this too, brings challenges, including addressing 
compatibility issues with legacy healthcare IT systems such as their electronic health 
record ( EHR) , and overcoming challenges in standardizing data across different 
systems and departments to be used in AI solutions.  
Additionally , our members are deeply committed to ensuring the highest standards of 
data security in AI model training and development, recognizing the critical role that secure and trustworthy AI plays in the healthcare sector. Given their extensive 
expertise and direct operational experience, CHIME members  are uniquely 
positioned to provide valuable, real -world insights into the practical implications 
of any AI Action Plan. We welcome the opportunity to engage with you throughout the development of this plan, leveraging our members' knowledge to help shape policies that are both effective and implementable.  
We also wish  to acknowledge that the work done by  President Trump’s 
Administration and the AI Action Plan can help bridge the digital divide that will 
grow for providers serving American  patients  living in  rural, small, and under -
resourced communities .  
Application and Use  
AI tools and solutions require our members to contract with vendors as third- parties, 
which inherently introduces risk into their ecosystem. Often, these  third-parties are 


unwilling to sign Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act ( HIPAA) busi ness 
associate agreements (BAAs), and/or resist acceptance of appropriate levels of liability 
that recognize the great amounts of data and protected health information (PHI) they process and maintain. The current landscape of consumer AI applications remains 
largely unstructured, creating a highly unpredictable environment with significant data security and sovereignty implications.  
In the abs ence of clear direction from this Administration,  there is a substantial 
risk that consumer data may be stored, processed, or transmitted in jurisdictions with inadequate protections or misaligned regulatory standards. This includes the potential for sensitive data to reside in offshore data centers, including those located in regions such as China, where data access and oversight mechanisms does not align with U.S. privacy and security expectations.  
Addressing t hese vulnerabilities requires a more structured approach to ensure data 
integrity, security, and compliance with established legal and ethical standards. If we 
are to make meaningful improvements in our sector, this responsibility must be equally shared with those selling AI tools and solutions, and cannot be borne alone by providers.   
A primary concern for members is related to where the data goes when a hospital or 
healthcare system engages the AI engines – does it just stay within the specific 
process, or does it get captured and included within the algorithm to help improve the 
models? We have heard that some vendors have tried to use existing language in their 
contracts to essentially steal our members’ data sets to pilot their AI models.  The 
existing legal framework is not sufficiently equipped to address the complexities of AI -
driven data security challenges, particularly in cases of data theft and unauthorized access.  
As AI tec hnologies continue to evolve, the absence of clear legal parameters creates 
significant uncertainty regarding liability, enforcement, and redress mechanisms. Accordingly, an AI Action Plan that provides clarification on the limitations and 
legal implications of data theft could serve as a critical step toward establishing 
greater regulatory certainty, enhancing risk mitigation strategies, and ensuring the responsible development and deployment of AI systems.  
Further, wh en negotiating contracts with AI companies – or restructuring existing 
contracts – some of our members have found that they have had to undertake 
substantial risk management, data governance, and data hygiene efforts, and then reexamine existing contracts. Many offerors of AI tools and solutions do not give them 
the option to “opt -out.” This limits innovation by placing unnecessary restrictions on the 
use of potentially valuable tools, preventing their safe and responsible integration. As a resul t, it hinders technological progress and the ability to fully leverage these tools to 
improve outcomes while maintaining security and compliance.  
For example,  there have been ongoing issues with being unable to completely turn off a 
chat-powered AI assistant within a hospital because it’s part of the overall software 


pack age. They are concerned that if an AI tool is capturing their data, and that data  
leaves  their organization – they have no method of knowing where it is going, how it is 
being used, and/or if it might be re- released for other (potentially non- HIPAA compliant) 
purposes.  The current regulatory landscape heavily penalizes the provider in these 
situations that are difficult  for them to control.  
AI has bee n an integral component of healthcare technologies for decades, 
playing a critical role in enhancing clinical decision -making and operational 
efficiencies.  One notable example is its longstanding application in radiology, where 
AI-driven algorithms assist healthcare professionals and clinicians by  augmenting 
diagnostic accuracy, streamlining workflows, and improving patient outcomes.  These 
advancements underscore AI’s established presence as a supplementary tool 
that enhances, rather than replaces, the expertise of clin icians and medical 
practitioners.   
With the advent  of large language models ( LLMs ), there has been a proliferation of new 
AI tools  to the market as well as increased marketing claims and hype.  While  many 
organizations do model validation on their own data for vendor supplied tools , we have 
heard a wide array of concerns from members regarding predatory sales practices of AI 
vendors’ tools and solutions . For example, a common sales tactic/selling point is that 
the tool will “save 10 minutes of time per patient,” or guaranteeing “more clinician time with patients” ; often these claims are made without proof of concept.  
When it com es to purchasing an individual AI tool, everything is proprietary . Hospitals  
could simply, as one member stated, “be buying a bill of goods.” There is a 
considerable gap between companies that claim to have AI capabilities and those that actually show real, AI -powered outcomes.  
CHIME members  find that many of the sales and marketing teams of AI tools will not 
offer demonstrations of the capabilities of their tools, and are often unwilling to bring the engineers into meetings. Further, as one example, a member noted that the 
“development” sales teams will market to the physicians or others in their organization in an attempt to go around the governance structures that have been created to protect the organization  and limit risk.  
There are – of course – many pressing issues that CHIME members face as they 
approach the appropriate use of AI in their hospitals and healthcare systems. Change 
management involves overcoming resistance to AI adoption among healthcare professionals and managing the cultural shift required for successful AI integration.  
They encounter significant challenges in ascertaining when modifications to software by vendors may have downstream implications for the responsible deployment of AI —such 
as instances where a coding tool integrates AI functionality through an update without adequate disclosure.  
Furthermore, they face substantial network bandwidth constraints and heightened 
cybersecurity risks, particularly when AI -enabled tools are introduced into an 
organization's ecosystem without proper oversight (i.e., when they are used 


unknowingly by patients and/or healthcare professionals) . Notably, there have been 
documented cases in which such AI tools have served as the attack vector for 
cybersecurity incidents, underscoring the necessity of rigorous governance and risk management frameworks.  
 Our members who are using AI are moving deliberately to establish guardrails to encourage thoughtful evaluation and implementation of AI technology in the appropriate use cases in which they can understand the potential risks and benefits . CHIME 
members must continually address concerns surrounding AI decision- making in 
healthcare and manage patient trust and consent in these AI-assisted care  
situations .  
 Hospitals and healthcare systems at the forefront of AI in healthcare must prioritize use cases, which involves identifying high- impact areas for AI application and balancing 
clinical and operational AI use cases. Our members  are dedicated to developing 
comprehensive AI education programs, including prompt training,  for and with their 
medical staff, and must balance technical knowledge with practical application in these 
clinical settings.  
 Without any significant reduction in burden on clinicians across the care continuum, the current urgent clinician burnout and workforce shortage that our country is facing will continue to grow.  Our members are dedicated to best practices 
in EHR and AI implementation, prioritizing safety and effectiveness. They take their 
responsibility to protect the privacy, security, and accuracy of patient data – and, most 
importantly, the overall safety and well -being of their patients – very seriously.  
 Additional Recommendations  
 The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and Office of Inspector General (OIG) could consider further amending the regulations to the Stark Law and the Anti -Kickback Statute and Beneficiary Inducement Civil Monetary Penalty 
Law to include permitting donations  of AI tools, and further ease the 
cybersecurity technology and related service donations provisions.  
 While the Cybersecurity Exception and Safe Harbor and the EHR Exception and Safe Harbor offer hospitals and other donors a valuable pathway to protect their systems through donations to connected recipients – further updating these regulations should 
be considered to enhance their effectiveness and adaptability.  We believe this would  
help to bridge the innovation and implementation across the care continuum, and across the “have and have nots. ”  
 The Cybersecurity Landscape and National Security  
 The Health- ISAC 2025 Health Sector Cyber Threat Landscape
1 highlights a continued 
escalation of cyberattacks, with the top impact on HDOs reported as: “Disruption in the 
1 Annaloro, J. (2025, February 21).  Health- ISAC 2025 Health sector Cyber threat landscape. Health- ISAC - Health Information 
Sharing and Analysis Center.  https://health- isac.org/health- isac-2025- health- sector -cyber- threat -landscape/  


norm al operation of medical technology, including such things as loss of diagnostic 
technology or loss of access to electronic medical records which may cause delay and 
disruption to patient care, such as diversion of patients and ambulances, canceled 
surgeries, or the need to revert to manual procedures.”  
Hostile nat ion states have grown increasingly aggressive with their tactics, 
attacking hospitals and other healthcare stakeholders daily. This poses an imminent risk to our national defense.  Put simply, cybersecurity is national 
security.  We must continue to move away from a mentality that punishes those 
that have been victimized by malicious actors and criminals.    
Privacy of  healthcare data is not possible without security. Hospitals and healthcare 
systems are spending an increasing amount of time, energy and resources navigating this highly challenging and evolving environment.  Our 2024 Digital Health Most Wired 
(DHMW) Survey  (DHMW) survey shows that over the past several years, security 
has maintained the position as the highest priority for digital investment – with 
99% of respondents stating that “Security” is essential or high priority.  The 
survey encompasses nearly 48,000 facilities, including acute care, ambulatory, and long- term/post -acute care settings.  Organizations surveyed are also 
increasing their financial commitment to IT, with average budget allocations for IT systems and initiatives nearly doubling year over year.  
Therefore, C HIME respectfully requests that the Trump Administration consider the 
increasingly complex cybersecurity landscape hospitals and health systems must navigate, and we are hopeful that you will keep this in mind when crafting the AI Action Plan. CHIME members are focused on safeguarding against AI -specific 
cybersecurity threats. AI holds significant promise in ways it can assist the sector to take a more proactive posture against cyber threats. However, we are aware that cyber criminals are also u sing these tools to their advantage – and 
weaponizing AI.  
With these t ools, cyber criminals can make phishing attacks look more authentic, and 
custom malware code will become available to more criminals, expanding their capabilities. We are on notice and have been warned that AI/ML systems can be 
manipulated by malicious actors who can confuse or “poison” AI systems to make them malfunction and several attacks against healthcare applications have already happened.   
Hospitals a nd healthcare systems are spending an increasing amount of time, energy 
and resources navigating this highly challenging and evolving environment.  
Cybersecurity challenges and threats that our members are facing are what those who have been active in the cybersecurity landscape have known for years – healthcare is 
under constant threat and more resources are needed for healthcare providers.  
The budget and resources our members would need to allocate to comply with 
any new regulations are valuable funds and assets that could otherwise be directed toward critical investments to enhance hospital and healthcare systems’ 


cybersecurity posture and innovation. Any relief of regulatory burden or 
investm ents in cybersecurity and AI, for or by the healthcar e sector, will be an 
investment not just in patient safety – but also national security. 
Conclusion 
CHIME deeply appreciates the opportunity to respond to this RFI. We are hopeful 
that the Trum p Administrati on carefully consider s the following critica l priorities in the 
development of the AI Action Plan: ensuri ng patient sa fety and privacy,  reducing 
regulatory burden, establishi ng clear and consistent r egulatory oversight, f ostering 
responsibl e innovation, maintainin g affordability,  strengthenin g cybersecurity,  achieving 
administrative  efficiencies,  and advanci ng workforce  education. Additionally , we 
emphasize the importance of leveraging the AI Action Plan to bridge the widening 
digital d ivide, particularl y for provider s serving rural, small, and under-resourced 
communities. 
As the Administratio n solicits and evaluates public input to shape the AI Action 
Plan, CHIME and its members stand ready to serve as a strategic resource. Our 
members—co mprise d of executives and senior healthcar e IT leaders —bring decades of 
expertise  at the intersecti on of healthcar e and technology, i ncludi ng firsthand 
experienc e managin g the complex implications of AI adopti on and respondi ng to 
cybersecurit y threats. Their insights  are invaluable in crafti ng policies that balance  
innovation with risk  mitig ation and operational feasibility.  
We welcome ongoing collaborati on and look forward to serving as a trusted 
stakeholder and resource to the Administrati on throughout a nd beyond the 
development of t he AI Action Plan.  
Should you have any questions or if we can be of assistance, please contact C helsea 
Arnone, D irector, F ederal Affairs.  
Sincer ely, 
Russe ll P. Branzell, CHCIO, LCHIME 
President a nd CEO  
CHIME 
NOTE: This document i s approve d for public dissemination. The document 
contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document c ontents 
may be reused by the government i n developi ng the AI Action Plan and 
associate d documents without a ttribution. 


