1 
March 15, 2025 
90 Federal Register 9088 
Docket No. NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479 
Re: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan 
The next few years will be a defining period for future development of AI. The actions this administration 
takes in this time period will have lasting effects. I have conducted a literature review on regulation on 
AI. I am deeply interested in the future of the field, and I strongly support action taken to further 
development of AI while minimizing risks. Below, I offer some thoughts (based on review of current 
research as well as the recent EU AI Act) regarding what I consider to be most important in future policy 
developments. Clarity of Regulations 
The Office of Science and Technology Policy has shared concerns that poorly designed regulations may 
hamper the private sector’s ability to innovate in AI. I agree that terms which are too broad and rely on 
interpretation will likely not help, or even hinder, innovation.1 I believe that future regulation should 
implement measurable safety standards and clearly define the responsibilities of AI companies, deployers, 
and end users. 
Transparency and Public Awareness 
AI will only become more capable and ubiquitous in the future, and are already widely used for 
processing job applications,2 for example. Often, many are unaware of the extent to which AI is used. I 
believe that people should have the right to know whether tasks are being performed by an AI or a human, 
so that they are able to make informed decisions accordingly.  
Monitoring 
The field of AI develops rapidly, with new breakthroughs often rendering previous work obsolete. I 
believe that it would be beneficial to establish a new agency responsible for carefully monitoring and 
evaluating new developments in AI, in order to respond to them effectively. 
Sincerely, 
Christopher Bao 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
2 https://www.cmu.edu/news/stories/archives/2024/june/ai-tools-reshape-job-application-process 1 See https://www.anthropic.com/news/the-case-for-targeted-regulation for a more detailed argument. 


