 
 
Charles Yang 
Founder and Executive Director 
Center for Industrial Strategy 
@industrialstrat  
 About  
The Center for Industrial Strategy is a bipartisan think tank focused on developing 
policies and strategies to build US industrial power.  
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents. 
 
1 


Scaling AI into the Physical World 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) has made tremendous advances in the past several years, 
driven largely by U.S. innovation. However, impressive scores on AI benchmark 
tests alone will not secure strategic competitiveness or build national power. The 
Trump Administration should prioritize ensuring the US is a leader in not just developing 
AI models, but scaling AI into the real world,  integrating AI systems in key domains 
relevant for strategic competition. 
In this response, we identify three key areas where this administration can focus 
attention to accelerate the diffusion and adoption of AI systems to support US 
leadership: next-generation AI chip designs, autonomous power grids, and accelerating 
real-world scientific discoveries.  
2 


Next Generation AI Chip Designs 
The CHIPS and Science Act helped onshore advanced semiconductor manufacturing 
capabilities and bolster a key gap in the American supply chain. However, China 
continues to advance in its domestic development of semiconductor manufacturing 
through SMIC and chip design capabilities through Huawei and other companies. Not 
only does China aim to close the gap in semiconductor manufacturing, it is also seeking 
to erode U.S. leadership in chip design. Since the first chip export control rules limiting 
PRC access to Nvidia GPUs, there has been a proliferation of new Chinese AI chip 
companies and PRC funding to develop new designs of AI accelerators. Today, China is 
the world leader in high quality and top-cited research on AI chip design1 and is 
continuing to use public capital to support new AI chip startups. The US should take steps to avoid strategic surprise in AI hardware design. 
Export controls may, as a second order effect, create conditions for our competitors to 
invest in and explore different technological paths towards a next-generation AI chip, 
potentially co-designed with new AI model architectures, and leapfrog US capabilities. A 
robust “compute industrial base” is needed to avoid strategic surprise, not just in terms 
of advanced semiconductor manufacturing, but also in terms of a multi-vendor AI chip 
ecosystem.  The US government can play a crucial role in supporting adoption of AI technologies to 
accelerate chip design iteration and innovation. This will not only boost US leadership in 
AI chips, but also help support the development of more energy efficient and performant 
AI chips, which can reduce the energy requirements and cost for AI training runs.  
Finally, there are a number of proposals to impose security requirements onto AI chip 
designers. Many of these proposals promise that such requirements come at “no cost to 
the government”, eliding the fact that such requirements would impose enormous costs 
on chip design companies, hurting US chip competitiveness while also adding 
surveillance technologies onto these chips that jeopardize global trust in US-led AI 
development. The Trump administration should carefully balance security concerns with 
the importance of global competitiveness and be mindful of imposing burdensome 
regulations that inhibit technoindustrial development. 
1"The state of global chip research," Emerging Technology Observatory, March 3, 2025, 
https://www.eto.tech/blog/state-global-chip-research/.   
3 


Key recommendations: 
●Support Department of Energy national lab AI testbeds2, which serve as a
customer-of-first-resort for many early stage AI chip companies, such as
Cerebras, Sambanova, and Groq. These testbeds also give our national labs and
other US scientists early access to advanced AI hardware to run novel scientific
AI models●Leverage the Department of Defense’s varied mission requirements as an early
market for leveraging AI to develop domain-specific chips. For instance, DIU3 and
DARPA4 have released solicitations in the past year to design new
high-performance, mission-specific chip chips. DARPA could replicate their
self-driving car Grand Challenge5 to create a competition for AI designed chips
that meet certain mission requirements.
5 "The DARPA Grand Challenge: Ten Years Later," DARPA News, March 13, 2014, 
https://www.darpa.mil/news/2014/grand-challenge-ten-years-later.   4 Sydney J. Freedberg Jr., "DARPA's OPTIMA Program Seeks Ultra-Efficient AI Chips," Breaking Defense, 
March 20, 2024, 
https://breakingdefense.com/2024/03/darpas-optima-program-seeks-ultra-efficient-ai-chips/.  3Cal Biesecker, "DIU Seeks Digital Platform to Help Speed Design and Validation of Analog Chips," 
Defense Daily, February 10, 2025, 
https://www.defensedaily.com/diu-seeks-digital-platform-to-help-speed-design-and-validation-of-analog-ch
ips/advanced-transformational-technology/.  2"Artificial Intelligence Testbeds at DOE," U.S. Department of Energy, 
https://www.energy.gov/cet/artificial-intelligence-testbeds-doe.  
4 


Autonomous Power Grids 
Building frontier scale AI models in the US increasingly requires the rapid deployment of 
domestic AI training data centers, which often require 1GW+ of power. While the US 
benefits from deep capital markets that are willing to invest in data centers and the 
powerful AI chips in them, the US power market has been sluggish to respond to the 
addition of large-scale power loads. While CIS has written about steps the Trump 
Administration can take to scale Federal Hydropower to realize Energy Dominance and 
support load growth6, AI can also play a role in helping meet the very load growth it 
creates. A growing grid is key to a growing economy. Part of China’s success in 
industrialization is their dynamic power grid, which has grown at over 6% every year7, 
compared to the U.S. which is struggling to maintain a new pace of 2% in year over 
year growth8 in power demand over the past several recent years. Power is critical not 
only for data centers, but also smelters, refineries, and manufacturers critical to building 
U.S. industrial dominance.  
Key bottlenecks in adding new power generation include federal permitting9 and a 
sluggish interconnection process for connecting new power10. AI can help accelerate 
every part of grid processes, down to the physics models used to operate the grid. 
New utility industry alliances11 are already beginning to form to support adoption of new 
grid technologies that incorporate AI. While AI data centers are driving load growth, AI 
can also help solve the very problems it creates by creating a modern, autonomous 
power grid.  
11 "Orchestrating the Grid to Deliver the Energy Transition," TGO Alliance, https://tgoalliance.org/.  10 Dan McCarthy and Maria Virginia Olano, "Chart: The US Clean Energy Backlog Is Getting Bigger and 
Bigger," Canary Media, April 19, 2024, 
https://www.canarymedia.com/articles/transmission/chart-the-us-clean-energy-backlog-is-getting-bigger-a
nd-bigger.  9 Thomas Hochman, "The Energy Permitting Reform Act Doesn’t Go Far Enough," Foundation for 
American Innovation, October 29, 2024, 
https://www.thefai.org/posts/the-energy-permitting-reform-act-doesn-t-go-far-enough.  8 “EIA publishes its first energy-sector forecasts through 2026”, Energy Information Administration, 
January 14, 2025. https://www.eia.gov/pressroom/releases/press564.php  7
 Lin Boqiang, "New developments in the recent low-carbon transition of electricity in China," World 
Economic Forum, January 15, 2025, 
https://www.weforum.org/stories/2025/01/low-carbon-transition-of-energy-electricity-china/.  6 Charles Yang, "Trump’s National Energy Dominance Council Should Appoint a ‘Hydropower Czar’," 
Utility Dive, February 25, 2025, 
https://www.utilitydive.com/news/trump-national-energy-dominance-council-hydropower/740801/.   
5 


Key recommendations: 
●The DOE can leverage remaining funding through the Grid Deployment Office to
support commercial deployment of AI to accelerate grid interconnection
processes.12 Interconnection queue timelines are one of the primary barriers to
more rapidly deploying all-of-the-above energy generation; DOE can help derisk
adoption of new AI tools to address this key bottleneck.
●The Council for Environmental Quality (CEQ) can accelerate the deployment of
AI for permitting tools, like Pacific Northwest National Lab’s PolicyAI13, across
federal regulatory agencies. These tools help augment the environmental
permitting workforce and can help streamline approvals for permits.
13 "PolicyAI," Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, https://www.pnnl.gov/projects/policyai. 12 "AI for Interconnection (AI4IX)," U.S. Department of Energy, November 25, 2024, 
https://www.energy.gov/gdo/ai-interconnection-ai4ix.  
6 


Bringing AI into the Lab 
AI will be a key accelerant for scientific discovery. However, current models today are 
unable to realize or actuate in the physical world. In a world where inference and 
ideas are cheap, testing and verification become the bottleneck for scientific 
progress. The bottleneck to discovering new semiconductor materials, new cancer 
drugs, and new high-performance ceramics for hypersonics in the age of AI is no longer 
ideas, but rather the ability for scientists to test and verify predictions in the real world.  
Autonomous experimentation infrastructure is the linchpin to bring AI into the lab. 
Combining robotics, automation, and AI-driven predictive models, autonomous 
experimentation enables closed-loop cycles of hypothesis testing, synthesis, and 
characterization of new materials. Tech companies are already beginning to recognize 
the importance of so-called “self-driving labs” in advancing AI for science: Meta worked 
with University of Toronto to autonomously test hundreds of catalyst designs through 
their self-driving labs, after they had already developed an AI materials model trained on 
simulation data. However, autonomous experimentation is high capital intensity and still 
nascent - public R&D investment will be required to scale this linchpin technology to 
realize AI-accelerated science. 
Key recommendations: ●The Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) can coordinate through the
interagency Material Genome Institute (MGI) to create a consortium for
self-driving labs, bringing together scientific equipment providers, robotics
manufacturers, scientists, and AI developers, to develop a roadmap for “Grand
Challenges in Autonomous Scientific Discovery”. MGI can leverage responses tothe recent Request for Information the Department of Energy released on
autonomous experimentation  to develop this roadmap.
●The Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Science should increase funding
support for national labs to invest in autonomous experimentation infrastructure
for self-driving labs. The Trump administration should also work with Congress to
pass the bipartisan DOE AI Act, which would support the development of a
national AI capability through the DOE and its national labs. DOE and its 17
national labs are well-positioned to integrate and scale AI through scientific
infrastructure and its national security mission.
7 


