1 Before the  
NETWORKING AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
(NITRD) NATIONAL COORDINATION OFFICE (NCO)  and 
NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION  
On behalf of  
THE OFFICE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY (OSTP)  
Alexandria, V A 22314  
Request for Comments on the Development of 
an Artificial Intelligence ( AI) Action Plan  ) 
) 
) Docket No. NSF_FRDOC_0001 -3479  
COMMENTS OF CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.  
Miranda Lutz , Senior 
Manager, Global Public 
Policy  
& 
Krysten Jenci, Senior 
Manager, Global Public 
Policy  
Cisco Systems, Inc.  
1000 Maine Ave SW  
Suite 260  
Washington, DC 20024  
March 14, 2025  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  


2 I. INTRODUCTION
Cisco Systems, Inc. (Cisco) submits these comments in response to the Request for Comments 
on Development of an Artificial Intelligence  (AI) Action Plan  issued by the Networking and 
Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office 
(NCO)  and the National Science Foundation on behalf of the Office of Science and Technology 
Policy (OSTP).1 Cisco is a global provider of networking , security, observability , and collaboration  
solutions  that power the internet  and secure ly connect people . Cisco connects and protects the AI 
era. With the trusted infrastructure to power and secure AI, Cisco helps maximize AI’s value across 
the economy.  Leveraging its industry -leading expertise, Cisco has developed best practices for 
designing AI -ready  infrastructure2 and has published extensively  on AI principles and policy 
considerations  to support the adoption of trustworthy AI. This includes Cisco’s Responsible AI 
Framework ,3 which operationalizes Cisco’s Principles  for Responsible AI4 – a set of six core 
principles guiding our development and use of AI.  Cisco is at the forefront  of innovation , providing 
AI-ready  networking and data center technologies , AI-enabled cybersecurity, and security 
solutions to support  the trustworthy  development and deployment of AI.  
As Cisco observed in its recent AI Briefing: CEO Edition, 97% of CEOs say they are planning 
an AI integration, but only 1.7% report  they are fully ready to do so.5 Similarly, Cisco’s AI 
Readiness Index , found that  only 19% of organizations in the United States consider themselves 
to be AI -ready .6 These findings indicate  that companies may not be prepared to leverage AI  to its  
full potential . Infrastructure limitations, security concerns , and  skills and knowledge gaps  are the 
main barriers that are often cited .7 While there are undoubtedly  challenges to unlocking the 
benefits of AI across the U.S. economy, there are clear actions which the U.S. Government and 
private sector can partner on  to address these barriers  and sustain American leadership in AI . Cisco 
welcomes the opportunity to assist NITRD and OSTP in identifying actions that strengthen AI 
innovation, encourage  secure deployment of AI, and support U.S. workers .  
A summary of recommendations is provided on the last page of this submission.  
II. INFRASTRUCTURE NEEDED FOR AI  GROWTH
Robust digital, physical, and energy infrastructure is necessary to develop and deploy AI across 
all sectors of the U.S. economy.  Cisco plays a pivotal role in AI infrastructure by providing scalable 
1 Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan , 90 Fed. Reg. 9088 , (Feb. 6  2025)  https://public -
inspection.federalregister.gov/2025 -02305.pdf  
2 Cisco Systems, Inc., Cisco Data Center Networking Blueprint for AI/ML Applications  (March 2024), 
https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/dcn/whitepapers/cisco -data-center -networking -blueprint -for-ai-ml-applications.html . 
3 Cisco Systems, Inc., Cisco Responsible Artificial Intelligence Framework (2024), 
https://www.cisco.com/c/dam/en_us/about/doing_business/trust -center/docs/cisco -responsible -artificial -intelligence -framework.pdf .   
4 Cisco Systems, Inc., Cisco Responsible Artificial Intelligence Principles  (2024), 
https://www.cisco.com/c/dam/en_us/about/doing_business/trust -center/docs/cisco -responsible -artificial -intelligence -principles.pdf .  
5 Cisco Systems, Inc., Cisco Study: CEOs Embrace AI, but Knowledge Gaps Threaten Strategic Decisions and Growth  (Feb. 2025), 
https://newsroom.cisco.com/c/r/newsroom/en/us/a/y2025/m02/cisco -study -ceos-embrace -ai-but-knowledge -gaps-threaten -strategic -decisions -
and-growth.html .  
6 Cisco Systems, Inc., AI Readiness Index  (2024), https://www.cisco.com/c/m/en_us/solutions/ai/readiness -index.html .  
7 Cisco Systems, Inc.  supra note 5.    


3 and secure solutions that support the increasing demands of AI workloads.8 Cisco's AI -native 
infrastructure is designed to enhance data center operations, offering integrated systems that 
simplify AI deployment and management . These solutions are part of Cisco's broader strategy to 
connect people everywhere to the internet and the digital tools they need to succeed . 
A.Support investments in and buildout of data centers, high-speed  connectivity infrastructure ,
and high -performance networks
Digitization of the global economy and growing adoption of data-intensive technologies like  
AI require infrastructure that can securely hold and quickly transfer  vast amounts of data . This 
infrastructure includes  data centers , components like routers, switches,  processors, storage 
devices, and servers, as well as  systems for power and cooling.  U.S. public and private sector 
organizations need to ensure  they are equipped with infrastructure  that can keep pace with 
increasing AI workloads . As OSTP evaluates policy measures to support AI innovation, it is 
critical to recognize the importance of  AI-ready  data centers and  connectivity infrastructure  to 
enhance the performance of AI applications and enable innovation and scalability.  
Data centers – from the  hyperscale to the modular  level – are critical to support AI innovation 
and adoption. Cisco is supporting AI data centers through our  accelerated compute, network fabric, 
and hyperscale fabric solutions.  The U.S. Government can play a role in data center growth by 
creating an enabling environment that encourages private capital to flow more easily into data 
center projects . The U.S. Government can streamline  regulatory barriers, use government 
procurement  as a market signal , and educate  the public about the essential role  data centers p lay 
in the U.S. economy .  
It will also be critical for the U.S. Government to consider  the burgeoning influence of edge 
AI and the proliferation of IoT devices.  Edge AI, by processing data closer to its source, 
significantly alters traditional AI workload distribution, shifting processing from centralized data 
centers to distributed edge devices. This shift not only impacts network traffic patterns but also 
introd uces novel cybersecurity challenges.9 Policymakers should consider how to integrate edge 
AI into the broader AI infrastructure strategy. Such integration is vital to ensure that the U.S. AI 
infrastructure remains resilient and adaptable in the face of these emerging technological trends.  
Network s must have the right hardware, software, and configuration  to facilitate the rapid 
exchange and processing of data and prevent bottlenecks that would impede AI training efficiency 
and use of AI applications in real -time. High-throughput and low -latency  networks help to avoid  
packet drops which can disrupt the deployment of time -sensitive AI applications .10 Overall, AI 
models  need scalable and reliable network connectivity. While centralized networking can support 
the massive requirements for AI training, a more distributed network transport model will be 
8 With products like the Cisco UCS X -Series Modular System and Nexus 9000 Series Switches, Cisco ensures high -performance computing and 
networking capabilities essential for AI applications. 
9 With millions of IoT devices generating and processing data at the edge, the attack surface could expand exponentially, neces sitating robust 
security protocols and real -time threat detection capabilities.  Scalable solutions at the network’s edge, like Cisco’s Secure DDo S Edge Protection 
on routers , can detect and mitigate attacks in real time, keep ing attack traffic off the network . See Cisco Systems, Inc.,  Cisco Secure DDoS Edge 
Protection Technical White Paper  (Jan. 25 2023), https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/products/collateral/security/secure -ddos -protection/secure -edge-
protection -tech-wp.html .  
10 Cisco Systems, Inc.  supra note 2  


4 required for real -time inferencing applications  – often  occurring closer to the end user and data 
sources.11 AI w ill continue to transform the flow of traffic across networks. Downstream traffic is 
expected to increase as AI applications often require substantial data inputs from cloud -based 
services to deliver personalized and real -time responses to users.  Upstream traffic is also likely to 
increase  due to AI -driven devices collecting and transmitting data for processing and analysis.  
Overall increases in downstream and upstream traffic will  require  greater bandwidth . Cisco  has 
developed our Agile Services Networking solution to  enhance the deployment and performance of 
AI applications by optimizing and modernizing network infrastructures to mee t the demand for 
high-bandwidth  and secure  connectivity necessary for  AI. 
Current U .S. connectivity infrastructure may be ill-equipped to handle this rising demand. 
According to Cisco’s 2024 AI Readiness Index,  46% of U .S. respondents  acknowledge d their 
infrastructure has limited or moderate scalability and  flexibility to accommodate the increasing 
demands from AI .12 As the volume and complexity of AI data flows increase , it will be critical for 
the U.S. Government to help address challenges related to legacy infrastructure. Outdated 
infrastructure is more vulnerable to security threats and can be an inhibitor to AI adoption  as legacy 
systems often have performance limitations and lack the capacity to handle the data and the high -
speed processing that AI applications require. Public and private sector organizations will need to 
consider how to identify, prioritize, and replace equipment that has reached its end of life.   
Reliable internet access is vital for deploying AI tools and ensuring their accessibility  to end -
users. High -speed, low -latency broadband is key to realizing the return on investment from AI 
technologies, as it enables individuals and businesses to leverage AI tools effectively in real -time.  
However,  more than 6 million Americans lack high-speed broadband  access ,13 and the  challenge 
is exacerbated in rural areas.14 Broadband access has been show n to boost the productivity  of 
workers and businesses  and to improve market access , strengthening economic competitiveness.15 
Cisco is focused on improving the cost of broadband deployment16 and support s the government’s 
efforts to close the digital divide and connect all Americans to vital internet resources.   
Additionally , one of the major challenges broadband providers face is the complex and lengthy  
permitting  requirements. These barriers can delay the expansion and enhancement of network 
infrastructure. By addressing these barriers, the government can accelerate broadband deployment, 
ensuring that connectivity infrastructure keeps pace with technological advances.  
Ensuring that all Americans have access to AI technology will help strengthen and grow the 
U.S. economy.  We encourage OSTP to promote policies that enable investment in data centers, 
11 Rakesh Chopra, A Service Provider Architecture for AI -Ready Connectivity , Cisco Blogs ( Feb. 10 2025)  https://blogs.cisco.com/sp/a -service -
provider -architecture -for-ai-ready -connectivity .  
12 Cisco Systems, Inc., supra note 6.  
13 Federal Communications, Commission, FCC National Broadband Map  (Feb. 4 2025),  
https://broadbandmap.fcc.gov/area -summary . 
14 Federal Communications, Commission, FCC Fact Sheet , 2024 Section 706 Report, GN Docket No. 22 -270 (Feb. 22 2024), 
https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/DOC -400675A1.pdf . 
15 Bert Kroese, Can Internet Access Lead to Improved Economic Outcomes?,  World Bank Blogs ( April 5, 2022 ), 
https://blogs.worldbank.org/en/digital -development/can -internet -access -lead-improved -economic -outcomes .  
16 Cisco Routed PON,  which simplifies service providers’ end -to-end architecture,  helps to lower operating expenses. See Bill Gartner, 
Transforming the Economics of Superfast Broadband with Cisco Routed PON , Cisco Blogs (March 15 2024), 
https://blogs.cisco.com/sp/transforming -the-economics -of-superfast -broadband -with-cisco -routed -pon.  


5 broadband infrastructure , and the development of future -proofed networks. To this end, the U .S. 
Government should:  
•Encourage  strategic investments  in new data center capacity as well as modernization of
legacy data centers;
•Promote best practices for building AI -ready networks ;17
•Ensure federal broadband investments are implemented efficiently and quickly to ensure
all Americans have access to AI tools ; and
•Work with permitting agencies to streamline regulatory requirements  to expedite the
construction of data centers and the  deployment of high -speed broadband to all Americans.
B.Ensure data centers have  reliable and affordable energy  and energy efficient technology
Modern data centers for AI applications require reliable energy to power complex processing 
operations and to provide adequate cooling systems.18 However, c urrent energy infrastructure, 
built mainly in the 1960s and 1970s  “is struggling to meet our modern electricity needs ,” according 
to the U.S. Department of Energy.19 Moreover, the electricity grid needs the capacity to 
accommodate more distributed and variable energy sources and to withstand  extreme weather 
impacts . Aging infrastructure also carries a higher risk of failure that could negatively impact local  
communities. Given the establishment of data centers as critical  infrastructure , ensuring data 
centers have  reliable and affordable energy is challenge government and industry must work 
together to meet .  
However, with this challenge come s an opportunit y to modernize the electricity grid and 
embed energy efficiency within data center operations to ensure  the U .S. can meet future  power 
demands. An energy grid equipped with digital solutions  (such as Cisco’s Distribution Automation 
and Advanced Metering Infrastructure technologies)  provide s smart monitoring and energy  
management capabilities for intermittent and distributed generation to ensure efficient and  reliable 
power delivery, advanced analytics to manage load shedding and peak shaving, and  automated 
data collection to reduce maintenance costs.20 
Data centers can also reduce energy costs and maximize resources with energy  efficient 
technology. 21 The Federal Energy Management Program (FEMP), notes that ICT equipment “can 
account for over half of the entire facility’s energy usage”  and therefore recommends use of energy  
efficient equipment, which can “significantly reduce these loads,” and help boost Power Usage 
Effectiveness, a key efficiency metric for data center operations.22 The federal government should 
promote the use of energy efficient IT equipment in data centers  (e.g., routers, servers, and 
processors) and complementary OT to help  reduce energy consumption and lower the costs from 
17 Cisco Systems, Inc.  supra note 2.    
18 Electricity and water are critical resources for the power subsystems, as well as uninterruptible power supplies, ventilation  and cooling systems, 
fire suppression, and backup generators in data center facilities. 
19 U.S. Department of Energy Grid Deployment Office, What Does it Take to Modernize the Electric Grid?  (Oct. 19, 2023),  
https://www.energy.gov/gdo/articles/what -does-it-take-modernize -us-electric -grid. 
20 Cisco Systems Inc., Digitize the Power Automation Grid Reliably, Safely, and Efficiently  (2023),  
https://www.cisco.com/c/dam/en/us/solutions/global -partners/cisco -se-grid-modernization -so-r2.pdf . 
21 See Cisco Systems Inc, Comments of Cisco Systems Inc ., National Telecommunications and Information Administration and U.S. Department 
of Energy Request for Comments on Bolstering Data Center Growth, Resilience, and Security (Docket No. NTIA -2024 -0002) (Nov. 4 2024), 
https://www.regulations.gov/comment/NTIA -2024 -0002 -0027 .    
22 Otto Van Geet & David Sickinger, FEMP , Best Practices Guide for Energy -Efficient Data Center  Design  (2024), 
https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2024 -07/best -practice -guide -data-center -design.pdf . 


6 AI workloads. This should be a priority for all new data center capacity but there is also an 
opportunity to reap the benefits of energy efficient technology by modernizing legacy systems .  
U.S. energy infrastructure development  is crucial  as AI compute demands  outpac e addition of 
new generation to the grid . The U.S. Government should adopt a dual approach that accelerates 
energy acquisition but also enhances the efficiency of technology infrastructures supporting AI. 
Initiatives that enhance the efficiency of data center hardware and software, optimiz e algorithms 
for reduced computational load, and foster research into computing paradigms that minimize 
energy consumption  should be prioritized . Simultaneously, strategic investments in grid 
modernization and diverse energy sources are crucial to ensure reliable power delivery to support 
an AI -driven  economy.  To strengthen the resiliency of U.S. energy grid for AI and to achieve the 
objectives outlined in President Trump’s Executive Order 14154,23 the U.S. Government should:  
•Encourage investment in grid modernization through the use of grid enhancing
technologies;
•Encourage modernization efforts to include security in the underlying control network as
attacks on the power grid  are easier than attacking the hardened security of the data center;
•Encourage  the use of energy efficient ICT equipment in data centers to maximize available
energy; and
•Streamline  regulatory requirements to facilitate modernization and addition of diverse
energy sources – including low er and no -carbon sources – to the grid.
III. STRENGTHENING  U.S. CYBERSECURITY WITH AI
Although cyber threats are constantly evolving, the increasingly sophisticated threats 
introduced by AI necessitate a paradigm shift in how organizations approach cybersecurity.  Cisco 
is integrating AI across the network, cloud, and endpoints to provide comprehensive protection  by 
improving threat detection, prediction, and response . This approach not only assists security teams 
by simplifying management and improving outcomes but also augments human insight, allowing 
cybersecurity teams to operate at machine speed and focus on critical tasks.    
A.Support deployment of AI-enabled cybersecurity to address growing threat landscape
In the face of an increasingly complex cyber threat landscape, AI-enabled cybersecurity 
solutions will be critical for protecting U.S. economic and national security interests . AI can 
quickly analyze vast amounts of  data, enabling the identification of anomalies that may signal a 
cyberattack or the detection of malicious code. Moreover, b y automating incident response, AI can  
also significantly reduce response times and tailor  security policies to specific organizational 
needs. However, t he future of AI -enabled cybersecurity lies in its ability to  help organizations  
evolve  from reactive remediation to proactive prediction and prevention. With the analytical power 
of AI , cybersecurity tools  can identify potential vulne rabilities and forecast cyberattack  patterns 
so that an organization can strengthen its cybersecurity posture before attacks occur.   
23 Executive Order No. 14154, Unleashing American Energy,  (Jan. 20 2025), https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential -
actions/2025/01/unleashing -american -energy/ .  


7 Policymakers can facilitate these advancements by promoting an innovation -friendly 
regulatory environment  that gives  cyber defenders the flexibility to address dynamic cyber threats . 
To ensure that AI is integrated into cybersecurity solutions in a secure and resilient manner,  the 
U.S. Government should :  
•Collaborate with the private sector to develop guidance and encourage uptake of
internationally recognized  standards that define how AI systems and AI -powered
technologies  are securely deployed ; and
•Ensure that AI systems embedded into cybersecurity solutions are not considered high -risk
and subject to restrictive regulatory requirements  that inhibit the ability of companies to
innovate to address emerging threats .
B.Leverag e generative AI to enhance cybersecurity and expand cyber workforce capabilities
Generative AI ( GenAI ) is playing a n important role in modernizing cybersecurity operations 
and expanding workforce capabilities. GenAI  enhances system usability and democratizes access 
to advanced security tools, simplifying complex cybersecurity management tasks through natural 
language processing. For example, GenAI  embedded in Cisco ’s AI Assistant Firewall  allows users 
to configure firewalls with natural language, eliminating the need for technical command -line 
syntax. This innovation not only lowers the barrier to entry for non -experts bu t also enhances the 
efficiency of security operations centers (SOCs).24 Leveraging security systems with intuitive 
GenAI  interfaces  can help  expand the pool of cybersecurity talent with less extensive training.25 
To realize the benefits of GenAI for cybersecurity, the U.S. Government should:  
•Encourage adoption of cybersecurity systems with GenAI interfaces ; and
•Promote the use of GenAI  to help address shortages of cybersecurity professionals .
C.Promote r egulatory alignment and compatibility to boost  adoption of AI -enabled security
Regulatory alignment across markets is essential for the widespread and trustworthy  adoption 
of AI, particularly in critical sectors like cybersecurity. Divergent and conflicting regulations create 
a complex and costly landscape for U.S. businesses, hindering innovation and impeding the 
deployment of vital AI -powered security solutions. Uniform, risk -based , non -regulatory 
frameworks  - for example those  based on international standards  - would foster trust, streamline 
compliance, and enable the rapid deploym ent of AI -driven cybersecurity tools, ultimately 
strengthening the U.S. national security posture and promoting a robust, globally competitive AI 
ecosystem .  The U.S. Government  should:  
•Work with strategic partners and allies to align security certifications to accept
internationally recognized  schemes for certification, attestation , and verification of
products and services to reduce the need for duplication of resources in different
countries for these checks ; and
24 Cisco’s SOC Assistant provides comprehensive situation analysis for SOC analysts, correlating intel across the Cisco Security Cloud platform 
solutions, relaying potential impacts, and providing recommended actions  which reduces the time needed for SOC teams to respond to potential 
threats. See Cisco Systems, Inc., Cisco Unveils Next -Gen Solutions that Empower Security and Productivity with Generative AI  (Aug. 29, 2023), 
https://investor.cisco.com/news/news -details/2023/Cisco -Unveils -Next -Gen-Solutions -that-Empower -Security -and-Productivity -with-Generative -
AI/default.aspx .  
25 Cisco Systems, Inc., Close the Cybersecurity Workforce Gap with AI  Position Paper  (May 3 2024), 
https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/products/collateral/security/xdr/close -cybersecurity -workforce -gap-with-ai.html .  


8 •Encourage  mutual recognition of certification regimes that are substantially similar and
discourage the adoption of local requirements that differ from international ly recognized
standards.
IV. SECURI NG AI TO SUPPORT  INNOV ATION
As AI development and deployment evolves  across sectors and use cases , robust security is 
crucial for supporting innovation that protects national security and promotes economic growth. 
Trustworthy AI encourages adoption by U.S. businesses, underscoring the importance of robust 
security measures . Safe AI development aligned with human values fosters public trust and 
supports national security and stability. Without proper safeguards and standards, unintended AI 
behaviors could harm U.S. businesses and security, h ighlighting the need for AI guardrails and 
security research.  Cisco is committed to protecting AI transformation by developing solutions 
like Cisco AI Defense designed to continuously detect and protect against emerging threats in AI 
applications without compromising speed or safety.  
A.Support industry -backed  technological solutions to secure AI
While integration of AI systems will undoubtedly  unlock new innovations and efficiencies 
across the U .S. economy, AI systems can also introduce new risks . AI applications add a new layer 
to the technology stack in the form of models . Additionally,  most organizations use multiple 
models across public and private clouds. This multi -model  and multi -cloud landscape will require 
government and private sector organizations alike to take a new approach to security. AI-associated 
risks —like data leakage , data poisoning , training data extraction,26 prompt injection,  and insecure  
outputs  handling —will need to be addressed . Additionally, threats from external actors seeking to 
exploit vulnerabilities to steal confidential data or otherwise compromise security must be 
mitigated to reduce risk and liability to U.S. businesses  and U.S. national security .27  
The release of the DeepSeek  R1 model  exemplifies these challenges, highlighting deficiencies 
in model security, as demonstrated by Cisco and the University of Pennsylvania’s  research on 
prompt injection vulnerabilities.28 This research revealed a 100% success rate in jailbreaking the 
model, underscoring that there are important risk appetite considerations for organizations 
adopting AI . High performing  models do not always equal highly secure models. This highlights  
the broader issue of commoditized  access to model development, which can result in  a proliferation 
of new models with heightened risks and unreliability due to uncertain provenance and unclear 
data governance . While all AI models can make mistakes, poor security can exacerbate those risks . 
Developers and deployers of AI models need to have a comprehensive understanding of where 
those weaknesses and vulnerabilities are and a willingness to fix  any identified problems. 
26 Cisco’s A I research has shown  that there are simple methods bad actors can use to extract memorized training data from chatbots , which  – if 
replicable at scale – could have widespread  security implications for AI models that are train ed on sensitive or proprietary data. See Amy Chang , 
Extracting Training Data From Chatbots , Cisco Blogs ( Sept. 20 2024) https://blogs.cisco.com/security/extracting -training -data-from -chatbots .  
27 Cisco is a leader in conducting threat analysis. More information on the latest AI security threats can be found in Cisco’s i naugural State of AI 
Security report . See Cisco Systems Inc., The State of AI Security 2025 Annual Report , https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/products/security/state -of-
ai-security.html . 
28 Gopal Devarajan, Evaluating Security Risk in DeepSeek and Other Frontier Reasoning Models , Cisco Blogs (Oct. 17 2024), 
https://blogs.cisco.com/security/evaluating -security -risk-in-deepseek -and-other -frontier -reasoning -models   


9 Technological solutions can help mitigate these risks. Innovations like automated re d teaming can 
provide continuous testing and validation of A I models to block adversarial attacks . Real-time 
protection for AI models, such as through Cisco AI Defense, 29 is critical to securely deploying AI 
in enterprise environments .  
Furthermore, it will be important to ensure that models and applications adhere to existing 
compliance obligations, a growing challenge as AI -powered application development becomes 
accessible to a wider audience, including non -traditional developers like healthcare and education 
professionals. As the pool of developers expands, technology is ess ential to maintain compliance 
and monitor the usage of AI models over time, ensuring they remain aligned with security and 
operational standards.  Cisco AI Defense p lays a crucial role in this process by providing robust 
tools and frameworks that help developers adhere to compliance requirements and continuously 
monitor AI applications.  To support the secure development and deployment of AI , the U.S. 
government should:  
•Ensure federal agencies deploying AI define risk measurement and mitigation strategies,
aided by adopting the NIST AI Risk Management Framework  (RMF) , and establish
controls for AI application access to reduce these risks ;
•Collaborate with the private sector to support pre - and post - deployment testing of AI
models and encourage a utomated red teaming and the validation of AI  systems ;
•Promote the  NIST  Adversarial Machine Learning (AML) taxonomy30; and
•Work with private sector stakeholders31 and s upport U .S. participation in AI standards
discussions to ensure U .S. leadership, facilitate  market access, and reduce duplicative
compliance obligations for U .S. businesses .
B.Work with industry  to secure  AI models’ supply chains
Development and deployment of open -source models has aided U.S. businesses in accelerating 
AI adoption and helped developers have access to cutting -edge technology to experiment and 
innovate. However, all organizations should understand the potential risks and vulnerabili ties 
associated with third -party software, AI models, and data. Threat actors have numerous 
opportunities to create vulnerabilities in AI models such as through the introduction of corrupted 
data into training datasets or the injection of malicious code in  open -source AI repositories. 
Already industry and its partners are working together to develop methodologies and technologies 
to assess and mitigate risks in AI models’ supply chains.32 The U.S. government should : 
•Work with stakeholders to evaluate weaknesses  in publicly available AI models in the
United States and help promote market -based solutions to addressing these risks.
29 Cisco AI Defense provides two key elements of AI protection: protecting against the risk of sensitive data exposure from empl oyees using 
third -party systems and sharing IP or other confidential information with AI tools and protecting the development of A I models through 
validation identification of vulnerabilities, and application of guardrails. See Jeetu Patel, Protecting AI so AI Can Improve the World, Safely , 
Cisco Blogs (Jan. 15 2025), https://blogs.cisco.com/news/you -cant-sacrifice -ai-safety -for-ai-speed .  
30 Cisco Systems, Inc., AI Safety & Security Taxonomy , https://www.cisco.com/site/us/en/learn/topics/artificial -intelligence/ai -safety -security -
taxonomy.html (last visited March 11 2025).  
31 The NIST AML taxonomy was developed in partnership with Cisco, NIST, and the UK AI Security Institute and is a successful exa mple of 
multi -stakeholder collaboration on standards that supports U.S. businesses. 
32 MITRE, MITRE and Robust Intelligence Tackle AI Supply Chain Risks  (Sept. 27 2023), https://www.mitre.org/news -insights/news -
release/mitre -and-robust -intelligence -tackle -ai-supply -chain -risks ; and Robust Intelligence, Robust Intelligence Partners with MITRE to Tackle AI 
Supply Chain Risks in Open Source Models  (Sept. 27 2023), https://www.robustintelligence.com/blog -posts/robust -intelligence -partners -with-
mitre -to-tackle -ai-supply -chain -risks-in-open -source -models .  


10 V. KEY ENABLERS FOR AI LEADERSHIP
Development of leading AI systems and solutions will require key enablers to be put in place 
to ensure that public and private sector organizations can maximize use of AI to support industry -
wide innovation and economic growth.  
A.Support d ata privacy and security to build  trust in  AI and promote adoption
In Cisco’s 2024 Consumer  Privacy Survey , respondents noted that awareness and 
implementation of privacy laws led to enhanced comfort with AI adoption.33 Strong company 
privacy practices, combined with reasonable privacy laws , are an important part of creating a 
strong AI ecosystem in the United States. Cisco supports a reasonable federal privacy law to 
provide a strong foundation for continued growth and innovation in AI; to ensure a harmonized 
approach across the country  (instead of a patchwork of laws that may be confusing for consumers ); 
and to facilitate U. S. leadership globally on privacy and AI. Cisco appreciates the U.S. 
Government’s interest in seeking an approach to federal privacy legislation that will spur 
innovatio n and help the U .S. retain its leadership position in AI.   
Americans are more likely to use and benefit from the productivity gains associated with AI if 
they are confident that there are baseline data privacy protections at the federal level, instead of 
relying on potentially conflicting  state privacy  laws. Consistent privacy baselines  enhance public 
trust in AI systems, fostering adoption while mitigating risks like unauthorized data use . Similarly , 
it would position  the U.S. as a leader in responsible  AI governance, countering perceptions of lax 
privacy protections; and consequently , American technology providers will be able to better 
compete in the global market if foreign customers have greater certainty about the applicability of 
a federal law that governs  use of their data when interacting with AI models and AI -powered 
services from American companies.  
B.Enable  cross-border data flows to  support  innovation  and market access
Over the past few years, there has been a growing trend of  national governments  adopti ng data 
localization policies. These policies create barriers to international data flows, hindering U.S. 
companies in their efforts to innovate, leverage AI to strengthen security, and scale data -based 
products and services to new markets . In fact, numerous independent studies demonstrate the 
negative impacts of data localization requirements, including: increasing data storage costs; 
reducing trade volumes; reducing innovation and competitiveness; increased costs for goods and 
services; and increased regional compliance costs.34 These policies may also pose risks to privacy 
and freedom of expression as authoritarian governments often “see physical access to data centers 
as an enabler of surveillance and political control.”35 Moreover , data localization mandates can 
33 Cisco Systems Inc., Cisco 2024 Consumer Privacy Survey https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/about/trust -center/consumer -privacy -survey.html .  
34 Nigel Cory & Luke Dascoli, How Barriers to Cross -Border Data Flows Are Spreading Globally, What They Cost, and How to Address Them, 
Info. Tech. & Innovation Found. (July 2021), https://www2.itif.org/2021 -data-localization.pdf ; Conan French et al., Data Localization: Costs, 
Tradeoffs, and Impacts Across the Economy, Inst. for Int’l Fin, (Dec. 2020), 
https://www.iif.com/portals/0/Files/content/Innovation/12_22_2020_data_localization.pdf .  
35 Id. 


11 result in siloed data in remote places offering less opportunity for monitoring, detecting, and 
remediating cyber intrusions.  To support U.S. competitiveness , the U.S. Government should:  
•Oppose  overly  restrictive data localization mandates  that limit U.S. market access ,
including by negotiating and enforcing provisions in digital trade chapters with trading
partners; and
•Seek digital trade provisions that support cross -border data flows, prevent governments
from requiring source code as a condition of market access, and ensure non -discriminatory
treatment of digital goods and services.
C.Consider options to protect curated AI datasets
AI models are only as good as the data they learn from. Data (personal, enterprise, public) and 
methods applied to enrich it form the foundation that drives the accuracy, efficiency, and reliability 
of models.  Organizations devote significant resources to creating AI/ML models and training data, 
which can cost millions of dollars to produce.  These datasets are becoming high -value assets for 
companies. Policymakers should explore what kinds of protections are available for these datasets, 
including whether int ellectual property (IP) protections could and should apply in these situations. 
Companies are interested in protecting both the data used as inputs and the data that is produced 
(output) of AI systems, to avoid potential theft in the form of distillation models being trained 
offshore.  The U.S. government should work with  stakeholders to come up with ideas to deal with 
the challenge  of how to handle  ownership of this data. 
D.Ensure robust intellectual property protections  for AI use
As IP protections for AI are contemplated, the U.S. government should consider the importance 
of the copyrightability of outputs where AI is leveraged. The U.S. should make the requirements 
for indicating the use of AI in software code  clear and workable . Innovators creating software 
using GenAI  need assurance that their work is appropriately protected under copyright law.  A 
strong legal framework would protect software incorporating AI outputs , thereby  encouraging 
investment and innovation. It is important that those who use AI to accelerate the development of 
innovative software are confident that they can protect their own work using copyright law. The 
U.S. Government should :  
•Ensure that a ny evolution of copyright law to accommodate GenAI  is reasonable and
balanced , allowing  for copyrightable GenAI  source code when there is sufficient human
creativity.
E. Lead  in the development of global AI standar ds
Cisco has been a leader in technical standards development since the creation of the internet. 
As part of our annual investment in research and development, hundreds of Cisco technical experts 
participate in more than 120 standards development organizations each year. We employ 
recognized international leaders in standards related to Wi -Fi, security, Internet protocols, optics, 
software -defined networking, mobility, and numerous other technologies, including AI.  The 
quality of Cisco’s  contributions is well -recognized within the industry and therefore provides the 
foundation of many telecommunication standards.  


12 The most important goal of standardization is technical interoperability, which allows web 
browsers to reach websites, laptops to connect to Wi -Fi, and mobile phones to make calls even 
though the technology that facilitates each of those connections is pro vided by many different 
companies around the world. We encourage colleagues internationally to continue to serve as 
global proponents for the open, industry -led, market -driven standardization system. Decades of 
global experience in standardization have tau ght us that the open, industry -led, consensus -based 
model of standardization yields the most innovative and pro -competition  outcomes.   
Given the dynamic pace of innovation, the U.S. Government should support industry -led 
standards and best practices that allow emerging technologies room to grow . Representation from 
U.S. industry and government is critical to the development of AI standards that align with 
American values and support American businesses. To promote policies that enable greater 
participation from a wider range of U.S. stakeholders in Standards Development Organizations 
(SDOs) , the U.S. Government should:  
•Host  more international standards meetings in the United States ;
•Fund support and simplification of the visa processes to make it easier for standards experts
to travel to international standards meetings;
•Elevat e the level of U.S. leadership involved in standards -related activities to help increase
their visibility;
•Work with strategic partners and allied countries to increase international collaboration and
participation in industry -led standardization processes to help avoid the creation of
competing blocs that could lead to global fragmentation on standards; and
•Ensur e SDOs’ voting structures support a fair and transparent process so that outcomes are
not decided by one country or region.
F. Promote  digital transformation  to support adoption of AI in the public sector
Digital transformation can yield many benefits, including improved and more agile 
management of resources, better user experience , higher productivity, and reduced costs. Adoption  
of cloud computing, data analytics, and IoT technologies, creates an AI -ready ecosystem and 
facilitates the collection, storage, and processing of data, all of which is essential for training and 
refining AI algorithms. Access to robust, high -quality, and well -structured data is needed  for AI 
to deliver its full potential in enhan cing productivity in the public and private sectors.  
While the U.S. private sector has made great strides in digital transformation, the U.S. dropped 
from ranking 10th  in 2022 to 19th in the 2024 UN E -Government Survey.36 The U.S. Government 
should view the advancement of AI as a catalyst to ensure public services are fit for the modern 
era by leveraging digital technologies. If successful, this would improve citizens’ experiences of 
government services and align with broa der policy objectives by making public services more 
tailored and efficient.  
36 United Nations, UN E -Government Survey 2024 , https://publicadministration.un.org/egovkb/en -us/Reports/UN -E-Government -Survey -2024  
(last visited  March 11 2025 ).  


13 Replacement of legacy equipment and pivoting to the cloud will not only ease delivery of 
services , helping to close gaps in serving all Americans , but will also help address some of the 
energy demand challenges discussed above. At the same time, this shift will also help improve our 
nation’s security posture against potentially disruptive attacks to critical infrastructure by 
malicious foreign actor s. The discovery that state -sponsored actors had successfully prepositioned 
footholds in U.S. critical infrastructure systems that deliver electricity and water37 and accessed 
sensitive calling data and wiretap records38 are strong indicators that we face unaddressed security 
risks from technology that has not been effectively patched  or in some cases is too old to secure. 
To ensure the U.S. Government can  securely  harness the benefits of AI to make the provision of 
public services more effective and efficient, it should:  
•Encourage the digitalization of the public sector by prioritizing cloud migration and
modernization  of legacy infrastructure;
•Develop  an effective data strategy that breaks down fragmented data sets and encourages
interoperability of data  to support creation of  high-quality data sets  for AI ; and
•Streamline U.S. Government procurement processes and increase capacity for testing and
validation to ensure that U.S. agencies have access to the latest technology and are  not
procuring older generations of technology due to slow approvals.
G. Invest in d igital skills and workforce development for AI uptake
AI will drive significant economic shifts, reshaping industries, labor markets, and 
competitiveness. U.S. companies are interested in strategic planning for this new economy . 
Workforce reskilling is key to stay ing competitive and ensur ing a smooth transition to new 
opportunities while t raditional workflows are disrupted . Harnessing AI’s transformative potential 
will require cultivating digital skills and an AI -ready workforce.  
A report from the Cisco -led AI ICT Workforce Consortium found that 92 % of technology jobs 
analyzed are expected to undergo either high or moderate transformation due to AI 
advancements.39 But as Vice President JD Vance rightly highlighted in his remarks at the AI 
Action Summit , the most promising “immediate applications of AI almost all involve 
supplementing, not replacing, the work being done by Americans.” Using AI to augment and 
strengthen the U .S. workforce will provide new ways to address critical workforce shortages  as AI 
can help ease the transition of workers to high -demand industries. The U.S. is facing a shortfall of 
265,000 cybersecurity professionals .40 Cisco and other tech companies have made significant 
investments in training workers and students with employer -recognized certifications for high-
demand jobs, including cybersecurity.  In Fiscal Year 2024 , Cisco’s Networking Academy  trained 
over 315,000 students in the U.S. and has trained over 2.6 million students throughout the country 
since the program’s inception in  1997. Cisco has also set the goal of training 25 million peop le on 
37 Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, PRC State -Sponsored Actors Compromise and Maintain Persistent Access to U.S. Critical 
Infrastructure  (Feb. 7 2024), https://www.cisa.gov/news -events/cybersecurity -advisories/aa24 -038a . 
38 John Sakellariadis & Maggie Mill-linked hackers stole wiretap data from telcos, FBI and CISA say  (Nov. 13 2024), 
https://www.politico.com/news/2024/11/13/china -hackers -wiretap -data-telcos -00189445 . 
39 Cisco Systems, Inc., AI-Enabled ICT Workforce Consortium , https://www.cisco.com/c/m/ai -enabled -ict-workforce -consortium.html  (last visited 
March 11 2025). 
40 CyberSeek, CyberSeek Highlights Persistent Cybersecurity Skills Shortage Despite Hiring Stabilization , PR Newswire (Sept. 20 2023), 
https://www.prnewswire.com/news -releases/cyberseek -highlights -persistent -cybersecurity -skills -shortage -despite -hiring -stabilization -
302275849.html .  


14 digital and cyber skills through the Networking Academy by 2032.41 Yet, the skills gap in 
cybersecurity persists  – and is likely to persist into the future unless we expand the pool of talent 
from which these roles can be filled.  
The U .S. Government and private sector must work together to bridge the gap so that all 
workers can harness the power of AI and improve productivity. To that end, we support the 
Administration’s efforts to train the U.S. workforce to ensure that American workers are prepared 
to integrate, manage, and interact with AI -enabled tools across all sectors.  Cisco further 
recommends that the U.S . Government : 
•Research AI's impact on key industry workforces and share best practices to help
companies of all sizes proactively upskill their workforce ;
•Initiate public -private partnerships that leverage the technical expertise and insights into
workforce demands of the private sector42;
•Encourage Congress to reauthorize the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act that
includes a specific percentage of funds to be dedicated towards worker training programs ;
•Encourage and enshrine skills -based hiring practices in both the private and public sectors;
•Extend eligibility for federally subsidized grants and loans, like Pell Grants, to students
pursuing short -term training to help them keep pace with rapid AI advancements ; and
•Encourage the Department of Labor to recognize non -traditional education programs as
valid opportunities for worker development under the National Apprenticeship Program.
VI. SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS
This document provides a wide range of recommendations , summarize d below,  to support U.S. 
businesses in develop ing and deploying AI and to ensure the U.S. maintains its global leadership 
in this emerging technology. Our recommendations reflect Cisco’s expertise from working closely 
with our customers to support their AI journey, the development and evolution of our AI 
Governance program , which includes Cisco’s Responsible AI Framework , and our decades of 
research and development .  
Infrastructure : We encourage the U.S. government to promote policies that enable investment in 
data center and broadband infrastructure, the development of future -proofed networks, and 
affordable and reliable energy . To this end, the U.S. Government should:  
•Encourage strategic investments in new data center capacity and modernization of legacy
data centers;
•Promote best practices for building AI -ready networks;
•Ensure federal broadband investments are implemented efficiently and quickly ;
•Work with permitting agencies to streamline regulatory requirements ; and
•Encourage the use of energy efficient ICT equipment in data centers .
41Cisco Systems, Inc., Cisco to Empower 25 Million People with Digital Skills Over the Next 10 Years  (Oct. 18 2022), 
https://newsroom.cisco.com/c/r/newsroom/en/us/a/y2022/m10/cisco -networking -academy -25th-anniversary.html .  
42 For example, Cisco’s Networking Academy has successfully partnered with federal, state, and local agencies to deliver one of the longest -
standing IT skills -to-jobs programs in the world. In the U .S. alone, the Cisco Networking Academy has partnered with a wide range of public and 
private organizations such as the Department of Labor, the National Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition, Cyber Florida, Wichita State 
University, and more.  


15 AI and Cybersecurity:  To enable the U.S. private sector to innovate with AI to address the dynamic  
cyber  threat environment , the U.S. Government should:  
•Collaborate with the private sector to develop guidance and encourage uptake of
internationally recognized standards;
•Ensure that AI systems embedded into cybersecurity solutions are not considered high -risk;
•Encourage adoption of cybersecurity systems with GenAI interfaces  and p romote the use
of GenAI to help address shortages of cybersecurity professionals ; and
•Encourage  mutual recognition of certification regimes that are substantially similar.
Securing AI:  To support the secure development and deployment of AI in a way that minimizes 
risks for U.S. businesses  and national security , the U.S. Government should:  
•Ensure federal agencies deploying AI define how to measure and mitigate risks with AI;
•Collaborate with the private sector to support pre - and post - deployment testing of AI
models and encourage automated red teaming and the validation of AI systems;
•Work with NIST to promote the NIST AML  taxonomy ; and
•Work with stakeholders to evaluate weaknesses  in publicly available AI models and
promote market -based solutions to addressing these risks.
Implementing Key AI Enablers:  To ensure the United States has the correct tech and workforce  
readiness  for AI, the U.S. Government should:  
•Support a reasonable federal privacy law in the United States ;
•Seek digital trade provisions that support cross -border data flows, prevent governments
from requiring source code as a condition of market access, and ensure non -discriminatory
treatment of digital goods and services ;
•Consider options to protect curated datasets for AI ;
•Support robust IP protections necessary for secure development of AI ;
•Facilitate U.S. leadership in the development of global AI standards ;
•Promote digital transformation to support adoption of AI in the public sector ; and
•Work with private sector partners to invest in d igital skills and workforce development .
VII. CONCLUSION
Cisco appreciates the opportunity to assist OSTP in identifying the necessary steps for 
advancing U .S. leadership in AI . It is imperative to balance a supportive policy environment that 
allows the AI ecosystem and innovation to flourish while minimizing risks that might inhibit 
adoption or undermine acceptance of this important technology. Cisco looks forward to working 
with OSTP  to build a prosperous and secure AI ecosystem that supports American businesses and 
strengthens U .S. economic competitiveness and national security.   


