From: Siddharth Hiregowdara 
Civic AI Security Program 
Contact: 
Faisal D’Souza, NCO 
Ofﬁce of Science and Technology Policy 
Executive Of ﬁce of the President 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
Submitted by email to 
Seeing is Believing: CivAI’s Response f or the AI Ac tion Plan 
March 15, 2025 
T o: Of ﬁce of Science and Technology Policy  
 Via Email: 
To Whom It May Concern: 
Thank you for the opportunity to provide input on the development of the AI Action Plan. CivAI is a 
501(c)(3) non-proﬁt organization that educates policymakers, civil society, and the public about AI 
through concrete demonstrations of the technology. Our demonstrations provide policymakers with 
ﬁrsthand, visceral understanding of current AI capabilities, their potential impacts, and associated 
risks. 
In response to the RFI on priority actions for the forthcoming AI Action Plan, CivAI offers its 
recommendations on how to ensure policymakers stay informed of cutting-edge AI technologies in a 
manner that fosters economic competitiveness, national security, and a brighter future for all 
Americans. 
Priority Actions for the AI Action Plan 
1. Maintain a Deep, Up-to-Date Understanding of Frontier AI Systems
For the United States to maintain its global leadership position in AI, the Administration must stay 
continuously informed about every major new AI system as it is released. These frontier models 
1 


represent the most signi ﬁcant technological developments happening in the world today, with 
capabilities that would have seemed like magic only a few years ago. They will fundamentally 
transform industries ranging from healthcare and education to manufacturing and national defense. 
We recommend that the AI Action Plan include provisions to: 
● Establish a formal mechanism for the White House and key agencies to maintain current
knowledge of state-of-the-art AI systems, both through direct engagement with leading AI
companies and through independent expert organizations.
●Hold brie ﬁngs whenever major new models are released (such as GPT-4.5 or Claude 3.7
Sonnet), as each new iteration will have increasingly signi ﬁcant societal impacts.
●Develop processes for rapid assessment of new AI capabilities as they emerge, particularly
those with national security implications.
2. Implement Regular Live Demonstrations of AI Technology for Senior
Ofﬁcials
To develop effective policies that both foster innovation and address risks, policymakers need more 
than abstract brie ﬁngs—they need practical, experiential understanding of AI systems. Many decision 
makers have not personally experienced frontier AI technologies ﬁrsthand. Live demonstrations offer 
the most effective way to bridge this knowledge gap. These demonstrations should come not only from 
the companies developing the technology, but also from independent experts who can provide 
additional perspectives. 
We recommend that the AI Action Plan include provisions to: 
● Schedule recurring demonstrations of cutting-edge AI systems for senior of ﬁcials to build
intuitive understanding of capabilities and limitations.
●Source demonstrations from AI companies, but also from independent technical experts. Many
of the most impressive applications of AI technology happen in the wider community in the
months after a new frontier model is released.
●Include both domestic and foreign AI systems, including those developed in China (e.g.
DeepSeek R1), to maintain comprehensive awareness of global AI advancement.
●Use demonstrations to understand how AI is transforming speci ﬁc domains, from software
development and cybersecurity to healthcare diagnostics and drug discovery.
●Create opportunities for senior of ﬁcials to directly interact with AI systems.
2 


Concrete Examples of Current AI Systems 
Below, we provide a brief overview of select CivAI demonstrations that provide an up-to-date 
understanding of AI. Through these demonstrations, we help policymakers gain ﬁrsthand experience 
with technologies that should be common knowledge for anyone developing AI policy: 
Cybersecurity and Phishing 
Leading AI companies have documented how state-backed threat actors like China are already using 
their AI models to enhance cyberattacks. In addition to writing code, AI systems can now create highly 
convincing phishing campaigns tailored to speciﬁc high-value targets. 
Figure 1: Threat analysis of NFL quarterback Patrick Mahomes using publicly available AI tools. 
3 


 
 
Figure 2: Personalized AI-generated phishing email to Patrick Mahomes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 


Deepfakes 
AI-enabled deepfakes present a growing threat that can be weaponized against individuals, including 
minors. CivAI demonstrates realistic AI-generated deepfakes using off-the-shelf technology in a manner 
that is vivid and informative. As these technologies become more accessible, the potential for misuse 
grows exponentially, underscoring the need for thoughtful safeguards. 
Figure 3: Generating a malicious deepfake of CivAI co-founder Lucas Hansen. 
5 


Figure 4: Fake tweet, article, and image generated by off-the-shelf AI tools. 
Biological Threats 
Publicly available AI tools can provide detailed instructions for creating bioweapons. Leading AI 
companies have documented that their most recent models are on the cusp of reaching dangerous 
levels of biological capability. 
CivAI maintains demonstrations related to potential biological threats that we cannot responsibly 
include in a public document. However, we would welcome the opportunity to brief OSTP privately, 
securely, and in an appropriate setting.
6 


Offer to Provide Live Demonstrations 
CivAI would welcome the opportunity to provide live demonstrations of these and other frontier AI 
capabilities to OSTP staff and senior Administration of ﬁcials to inform the AI Action Plan. We believe 
that ﬁrsthand experience with advanced AI technology is critical for developing robust, effective, and 
forward-thinking AI policy. 
We are available to arrange demonstrations virtually via secure video conferencing platforms or in 
person in Washington, D.C., at your convenience. 
About CivAI 
CivAI is a nonpartisan, nonpro ﬁt 501(c)(3) organization dedicated to educating Americans about the 
state-of-the-art capabilities of AI. We accomplish this mission by offering live demonstrations of AI 
systems, thereby translating abstract technical concepts into practical understanding. 
CivAI has provided educational brie ﬁngs and software demos to 100+ public sector of ﬁces (federal and 
state), civil society organizations, and news outlets. Our work has been featured nationally on television 
with FOX and ABC, and in print with Axios, Politico, The Washington Post, and many other outlets. 
Founded by former technology executives with deep technical expertise, CivAI is committed to 
providing non-partisan education that ensures American leadership in this era-de ﬁning technology. 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary 
or conﬁdential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
Submitted by: 
Civic AI Security Program (CivAI)  
Contact: 
7 


