March 13, 2025 
Mr. Faisal D'Souza 
NCO 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
Transmitted via email to ostp-ai-rfi@nitrd.gov. 
Dear Mr. D’Souza: 
Code.org submits the following in response to the Office of Science and Technology Policy 
(OSTP) and the NITRD NCO request for input on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence 
(AI) Action Plan (“Plan”), as printed in the Federal Register on February 6, 2025. This Action 
Plan, as directed by a Presidential Executive Order on January 23, 2025, will define the priority 
policy actions needed to sustain and enhance America's AI dominance, and to ensure that 
unnecessarily burdensome requirements do not hamper private sector AI innovation. Code.org 
and its partners believe that the safe, effective and responsible use of AI in schools comes from 
connecting the discussion of teaching with AI to teaching about AI. Any Action Plan must 
address the country’s education and workforce development needs. Please consider our views 
on this crucial topic as you develop your Plan.  America demands economic o pportunity.  
Our working class – young and old, rural and urban – are being left behind by globalization, 
technological change, and a system that doesn’t seem to reward hard work the way it used to. 
The American Dream feels broken. 
Let’s prepare people to  navigate evolving work in the Age of AI. 
AI is poised to change our economy even more than globalization. Before generative AI, 
automation was predicted to disrupt blue collar jobs. Now this trend is reaching both blue collar 
and white collar jobs. 60% of all workers believe AI will disrupt jobs. And the skills required to 
succeed in jobs are expected to change by 65% by 2030. In the past 10 years, jobs requiring 
high-end digital skills have grown while all other jobs have shrunk. 
So does this mean we’ll all be out of work? History shows the answer is no. In fact, AI might 
enable us to reach new heights. AI has the promise to be the next general purpose 
technology utilized across every job in every sector. In just one large-scale experiment, AI 
Code.org, 801 5th Ave, Suite 2100, Seattle, WA  98104 
1 


led to the discovery of 44% more materials, 39% more patents, and an overall R&D efficiency 
improvement by 15%. 
We must prepare our current and future workforce for how work is evolving. AI will augment jobs 
as much as replace them . 
Computer Science (CS) an d AI education are the building blocks of our future workforce 
and a necessity for every student in our education system. 
We are still early in AI’s use, innovation, and advancement. Building trust in technology is just as 
important as building its usefulness. Trust comes from ensuring everyone has a foundational 
understanding of CS and AI. It shouldn’t seem like magic to Americans. This knowledge will also 
ensure the future workforce can adapt and grow as the technology changes.  
A lifetime $200K bonus in earnin gs for every American worker. 
A groundbreaking new study from Brown University delivers data-backed proof that CS propels 
students to new heights. The economic benefits of high school CS education are profound. One 
high school CS course leads to an 8% increase in earnings at age 24 and a 3% higher 
likelihood of employment.  
If we want to restore the Am erican Dream, why not start with CS and AI education to ensure 
every student can benefit from this opportunity? This can give a lifetime $200K bonus for every 
American worker1. 
Only 6.4% of US high school students take CS each year. Although over 60% of high schools 
offer high-quality CS courses, only 11 states require it to graduate. How is it that at the dawn of 
the Age of AI we still don’t teach CS and AI to everyone? It’s only common sense that if we were 
designing a school system from the ground up today, we’d start with CS and AI skills. 
Every community benefits from this o pportunity, not just the elite few. 
Notably the 8% increase in earnings is found for every student, regardless of whether they go 
on to major in CS, whether they pursue a technical job, or even whether they attend college. 
This benefit isn't just for coastal tech hubs. It can spread to every community across America. In 
Pennsylvania alone, if every student took CS it could lead to an increase of $190M in annual 
earnings for each graduating class. 
CS is even more important in th e Age of AI. 
Anyone can now use generative AI to write code. So some are asking “is coding dead?” In fact, 
learning about code along with AI unlocks a superpower only available to those that understand 
what the code is doing. The real questions are – do they understand what AI is creating? Can 
they apply it to create complex software to innovate and solve problems? That understanding is 
the heart of CS. That is what has driven the creation of the $2 trillion tech sector and 
established America as a global leader in AI. 1 Assumes a $40,000 salary at age 24 increased by 8% and 2% lifetime wage growth yielding a lifetime 
earnings with CS of $2.7M and without CS of $2.5M. 
Code.org, 801 5th Ave, Suite 2100, Seattle, WA  98104 
2 


 
Even as AI tools become more powerful to help with both of these questions, humans need to 
be able to evaluate and modify AI-generated code and understand the broader context and 
implications of programming. More than 70 tech and educational organizations leading the 
development of AI agree that learning to program still remains important.  
 
AI promises to democratize the ability to create software by augmenting someone’s technical 
knowledge with their domain-specific knowledge to solve problems in new and innovative ways. 
But this is only possible with a foundational understanding of CS and AI. 
 
Given the cyber threat, we don’t have a choice to wait. 
Beyond the economic opportunity and the need to adapt in the Age of AI, threats from 
cybersecurity continue to loom. Expanding CS and AI education is a matter of national security. 
There are 500,000 open cyber positions in the US today, but this issue goes beyond these hiring 
challenges. The weakest link in our cyber defense is our own citizens and their inadequate 
technology education. Unless we take steps to better educate Americans in CS, our own safety 
is at risk. 
 
Act now to keep America’s Global Leadership. 
Other nations are poised to overtake the United States as the worldwide leader in AI. In 
particular, China has been aggressively investing in AI research and development, and the 
National Security Commission on Artificial Intelligence warned that China is poised to overtake 
the U.S. within a decade. China has also invested heavily in education, putting CS and AI 
graduation requirements in place years ago. To counter these efforts and retain its competitive 
edge, the United States must invest in its future workforce by enhancing K-12 CS and AI 
education, ensuring the next generation is equipped with the skills necessary to drive AI 
innovation.  
 
The solution lies in expanding CS and AI education. 
Every student should take CS and AI. Here are three specific things the Trump administration 
can do to ensure our workforce can adapt and evolve in the Age of AI: 
 1. Provide federal funding to states for K-12 schools to teach CS and AI.  
Education is driven locally, but given the economic imperative, cyber security threats, 
and global competition for AI leadership, this is a shared federal and state issue. 
Consider that the US imports talent through H1B Visas, ⅔ of which are for software 
engineers and related occupations. This generates ~$500M/year. 
 
Every school should teach computer science and AI. During President Trump’s first term, 
the Administration allocated $200M for CS from the Department of Education. This was 
a good start. This Administration should block grant +$500M each year back to states to 
expand CS and AI education and implement graduation requirements. This is just 1% 
of the US Department of Education’s $50B budget!  
 
Code.org, 801 5th Ave, Suite 2100, Seattle, WA  98104 
3 


2.Provide incentives to universities to prepare graduates for our workforce needs.
As tuition and student debt skyrocket, consider rewarding colleges that adapt their
curriculum and teaching capacity to fit today’s workplace needs. A CS degree, even from
a lesser college, is worth much more than any other college degree2. Students with
these degrees will repay their tuition loans faster and rarely default and should be
incentivized.
3.Expand retraining programs for adults.
Create programs to retrain adults in computing and AI skills to put the underemployed
back to work. A recent IBM report estimated that 40% of the global
workforce—equivalent to a staggering 1.4 billion individuals—will require reskilling over
the next three years due to AI’s impact. Teachers are no exception. The percentage of
teachers who have attended an AI training session has risen from 13% in June 2023 to
43% in October 2024.
We don’t need to th row more money at this problem. 
The new Department of Government Efficiency is tasked with cutting federal waste and ensuring 
the government is spending its resources wisely. As a donor and grant-supported organization, 
Code.org leverages technology and has become the model of effective use of resources. We 
have more than 16M active students learning K-12 CS globally. We are the largest provider of 
high-quality K-12 CS courses in the US. And it costs us $6/student to actively engage them, and 
about $65/student to complete a high-quality high school CS course. That $65 can unlock an 
eight percent lifetime of earnings gains. We are a model that others can look to on how to 
effectively scale and reach millions of students. Everybody agrees we shou ld do this.  
Expanding K-12 CS and AI education has the strong support of Governors, members of 
Congress, and mayors from both sides of the aisle. Surveys show that 90% of American parents 
want their children to study computer science in school. A coalition of 800 CEOs signed an open 
letter urging governors to expand computer science education. This issue has the support of not 
just every major tech CEO, but also the CEOs of America’s top airlines, hotel chains, banks, 
manufacturers, entertainment companies, you name it. 
Americans of all backgrounds and political persuasions are finding common ground on this 
issue. The American Dream is broken. Giving every American worker a chance to earn a 
lifetime $200K bonus through CS education is one of the best ways to fix it. 
Hadi Partovi 
CEO, Code.org Cameron Wilson  
President, Code.org 
2 Comparison of the lifetime value of college degrees: the Hamilton Project. 
Code.org, 801 5th Ave, Suite 2100, Seattle, WA  98104 
4 


About Code.org 
Code.org® is an education innovation nonprofit dedicated to the vision that every student in 
every school has the opportunity to learn computer science and artificial intelligence as part of 
their core K-12 education. 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
Code.org, 801 5th Ave, Suite 2100, Seattle, WA  98104 
5 


