March 15, 2025 
Faisal D’Souza 
National Coordination Office 
Networking & Information Technology Research & Development  
National Science Foundation 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
Via email to: 
Re: Request for Information on the Development of an AI Action Plan 
Dear Mr. D’Souza: I am the co-founder and CEO of Compute Exchange,1 the world’s first open exchange 
for AI compute, the raw computational infrastructure that powers AI by training and 
running AI models. We appreciate the opportunity to recommend priority policy actions 
for inclusion in the Trump Administration’s AI Action Plan.2 
The Problem: AI is Killing Innovation 
AI is killing innovation. That has to change, and the Trump Administration can play a 
critical role in saving innovation and, with it, America’s AI dominance. 
It sounds like a contradiction  but I’m not suggesting that AI itself is doing the damage. 
Rather, it’s the exponentially growing demand for compute and the lack of equitable 
access to that essential resource.  
In other words, no (or insuf ficient) compute equals no AI-enabled innovation for far too 
many organizations, large and small. As Vice President Vance said last month at the AI 
2 This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  1 https://compute.exchange/about/  


Action Summit in Paris, “the computing power [the AI] stack requires is integral to 
advancing AI technology.”3 
 
Innovation wasn’t always this gated – and that was a really good thing. For the Internet, 
letting the free and fair market grow through openness and standardization rapidly 
transformed the world and made global connectivity possible. The secret wasn’t about 
control, it was about removing constraints. 
 
But now, as we move deeper into the age of machine learning, AI innovation is choking 
on its core complements: data and compute. Innovation requires vast computational 
and data resources. That compute, the fuel that powers this new era, isn’t just 
expensive; its capacity is constrained and it’s concentrated under the control of the 
hands of a few very well-resourced organizations. And even those select few suffer from 
capacity constraints.4 In this world – where cost, capacity and control are constrained – 
innovation gasps. 
 
Despite the recent falling cost of the Graphics Processing Units (GPUs) that are core to 
AI compute, the cost of access will continue to rise. Researchers from Stanford 
University and nonprofit research institute Epoch AI have found that the cost of the 
computational power required to train AI models is doubling every nine months.5 If AI 
proliferates as many predict, supporting every working age person globally (age 15-64) 
with one H100 GPU (which consumes 1.2 kW of power) would cost nearly $100 trillion 
at today’s prices. To put this in perspective for America, the $500 billion Stargate Project 
announced the day after President Trump’s inauguration corresponds to just 10% of the 
over $5 trillion needed in the U.S. alone in the coming years. 
 
 
5 See Epoch AI, How Much Does It Cost to Train Frontier AI Models? (Jan. 13, 2025), 
https://epoch.ai/blog/how-much-does-it-cost-to-train-frontier-ai-models ; Stanford 
Institute for Human-Centered AI (HAI) 2024 AI Index Report, 
https://aiindex.stanford.edu/report/ . 4 See, e.g., CEO Remarks, Google Q4 2024 Earnings Call. 
https://blog.google/inside-google/message-ceo/alphabet-earnings-q4-2024/#ai-infrastru
cture; Microsoft FY25 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call, 
https://view.officeapps.live.com/op/view.aspx?src=https://cdn-dynmedia-1.microsoft.com
/is/content/microsoftcorp/TranscriptFY25Q2 .  3 Remarks by the Vice President at the Artificial Intelligence Action Summit in Paris, 
France (Feb. 11, 2025), 
https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/remarks-the-vice-president-the-artificial-int
elligence-action-summit-paris-france . 
2 


The Solution: Increasing Compute Access Through Private Sector Initiatives With 
Targeted Government Support  
Addressing the cost, capacity, and control constraints of the current compute 
marketplace requires both (1) increasing the amount of available compute and (2) 
creating a transparent and liquid system for purchasing and selling compute. For 
innovation to thrive, buyers need to access the amount of compute they need when and 
where they need it, while providers are able to monetize unused capacity efficiently. 
We recommend that the Administration continue its historic AI leadership by including 
the following four policy priorities in its AI Action Plan: 
1.Create a Strategic Compute Reserve and strengthen restrictions on export and
foreign use of AI infrastructure to increase national security
2.Establish government-supported public compute resources to provide compute
access to researchers and small businesses
3.Make a federal financial commitment to AI infrastructure development to which
small and medium-size businesses have access
4.Facilitate the development of voluntary industry standards necessary for a free
and fair market for compute
Policy Recommendations 
1.Create a Strategic Compute Reserve and strengthen restrictions on export and
foreign use of AI infrastructure to increase national security
The United States should establish a Strategic Compute Reserve — a strategic 
stockpile of AI compute resources to safeguard our AI security — just as it maintains the 
Strategic Petroleum Reserve6 to safeguard energy security. The size of the compute 
economy is on track to surpass the approximately $3 trillion oil industry7 in the near 
future so, just as energy independence has been a cornerstone of America’s economic 
and geopolitical strength, we must now treat compute sovereignty with the same level of 
urgency. A Strategic Compute Reserve  would ensure the government has access to 
critical AI capabilities in times of crisis, protect against supply chain disruptions, and 
foster domestic innovation.  
7 See, e.g., U.S. Energy Information Administration, Short-Term Energy Outlook (Mar. 
11, 2025), https://www.eia.gov/outlooks/steo/report/global_oil.php ; International Energy 
Agency, Oil Market Report (Mar. 2025), 
https://www.iea.org/reports/oil-market-report-march-2025 . 6 U.S. Department of Energy, Strategic Petroleum Reserve (accessed Mar. 15, 2025), 
https://www.energy.gov/ceser/strategic-petroleum-reserve . 
3 


National security also dictates a careful evaluation of the risks presented by certain 
foreign countries and actors obtaining American AI infrastructure. We recommend 
imposing reasonable limits, monitoring, and controls on the export of AI infrastructure to 
foreign actors posing a national security risk. For example, a limit on the total volume of 
compute would be better tailored to address concerns about models requiring 
substantial compute than a limit on the number of chips independent from the actual 
compute power purchased. In addition, a combination of supply chain, cloud software, 
and hardware monitoring could provide insights on potentially concerning compute 
usage. Importantly, a neutral exchange for compute and “one-stop shop” for compute 
buying and selling such as Compute Exchange is essential to administer any such 
restrictions and processes transparently and compliantly for the entire market. 
 
National competitiveness, which is necessary for our national security, requires an 
evaluation of the risks that, if foreign AI developers cannot access American technology, 
they will be forced to develop and sell their own technology which may put the U.S. at a 
competitive disadvantage. Accordingly, we caution against an outright ban or actions 
that may result in American providers being priced out of foreign markets except where 
there is an unbearable national security risk as to the particular country or entity. For 
example, we encourage the Administration to repeal the chip embargo on China and, 
instead, strengthen restrictions on China’s access to certain semiconductor equipment 
necessary for chip manufacture. 
 2. Establish government-supported public compute resources to provide compute 
access to researchers and small businesses 
Many who want to develop AI applications, including academic and government 
researchers and startups, are unable to access or afford compute on the current private 
market.8 
The Administration should prioritize establishing government-backed computing 
infrastructures that provide researchers, startups, and public institutions affordable or 
free access to high-performance AI resources provided by both public and private 
entities. By lowering the cost barrier to cutting-edge AI development, these initiatives 
will foster innovation, support essential academic research, and enable smaller 
enterprises to compete in AI-driven industries.  
8 See, e.g., NAIRR Task Force, Strengthening and Democratizing the U.S. Artificial 
Intelligence Innovation Ecosystem (Jan. 2023), 
https://www.ai.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/NAIRR-TF-Final-Report-2023.pdf  
4 


In addition, providing subsidized compute will help ensure that innovators in other 
countries, many of which have or are developing their own government-supported 
compute clouds,9 do not have an unnecessary advantage over American innovators.  
We urge the Administration to expand Cloudbank, the National Science 
Foundation-funded, university-operated, and private sector supported entity that helps 
the computer science community access and use public clouds for research and 
education,10 and increase its support for university-based programs such as the Texas 
Advanced Computing Center.11 We also recommend that the Administration work with 
Congress to authorize and appropriate funds for a comprehensive National Artificial 
Intelligence Research Resource (NAIRR), which is currently in a two year pilot.12 NAIRR 
would establish a shared national research infrastructure to connect U.S. researchers to 
trustworthy AI resources, including compute from both public and private sector 
providers. Similarly, we urge the Administration to support the authorization and 
appropriation of funds for the Frontiers in AI for Science, Security and Technology 
(FASST) program, which includes the creation of public-private partnerships around 
compute used by and for the Department of Energy.13  3.Make a federal financial commitment to AI infrastructure development to which
small and medium-size businesses have access
We encourage the Administration to support, and promote open access to and resource 
sharing in, private initiatives such as the Stargate Project. As noted above, however, 
even the Stargate Project’s $500 billion investment would provide only a small 
percentage of the investment likely needed to ensure adequate computational power for 
American innovators. Public-private partnerships and direct federal investment need to 
help fill the gap.  
13 https://www.energy.gov/fasst12 https://nairrpilot.org/11 https://tacc.utexas.edu/10 https://www.cloudbank.org/9 See, e.g., UK Dept. of Science, Innovation & Technology, AI Opportunities Action Plan 
(Jan. 13, 2025), 
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities
-action-plan ; Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada, Canadian
Sovereign AI Compute Strategy (accessed Mar. 15, 2025),
https://ised-isde.canada.ca/site/ised/en/canadian-sovereign-ai-compute-strategy ;
Charlotte Trueman, Data Center Dynamics, “Japanese government to fund $470m AI
supercomputer” (Apr. 19, 2024),
https://www.datacenterdynamics.com/en/news/japanese-government-to-fund-new-ai-su
percomputer/ .
5 


Importantly, the Administration should ensure that enterprises of all sizes, including 
small and medium-sized enterprises, are encouraged to apply to participate as partners 
and recipients of federal funding so that the public opportunities do not mirror the 
hyperconcentration of the private sector.  
4.Facilitate the development of voluntary industry standards necessary for a free
and fair market for compute
While the federal government should make direct investments in AI infrastructure to 
expand compute capacity and improve access, the private sector must lead in 
developing a sustainable, economically viable solution to ensure that every American 
innovator has access. For example, Compute Exchange is an open, neutral platform 
where compute buyers and sellers meet on equal terms, with transparent market-driven 
pricing where buyers can buy only what they need and sell compute that they do not 
use. In order to reduce the complexity and cost of purchasing compute and increase 
compute utilization rates, which some estimate are well under 50% (wasting billions of 
dollars),14 it’s important that AI users are able not only to buy compute in a fair and free 
market but also can migrate their workloads across different compute providers. 
We urge the Administration to encourage the development of voluntary standards that 
would eliminate operational barriers to buying or using compute from different providers. 
These would include (1) no fees for switching or moving data from one data processing 
services provider to another, or for data egress from a provider, and (2) interoperability 
of compute, i.e., being able to use compute purchased from multiple providers/sources 
at the same time and over time. We recommend that the Administration add as criteria for procurement and federal 
investment that compute providers must not charge the government for data egress or 
transfer, and must not impose any contractual or technical restrictions on the 
government’s use of compute from other sources.  
14 See Uptime Institute Global Data Center Survey 2024, 
https://datacenter.uptimeinstitute.com/rs/711-RIA-145/images/2024.GlobalDataCenterS
urvey.Report.pdf?version=0 . 
6 


Thank you for considering Compute Exchange’s views. We look forward to working with 
the Administration on this important effort. 
Sincerely, 
Simeon Bochev 
Chief Executive Officer 
Compute Exchange 
7 


