1 
General - Corning (L4)  Via Electronic Submission  
National Science Foundation  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development  (NITRD)  National 
Coordination Office  (NCO)   
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Subject:  Response to the Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
COMMENTS OF CORNING INCORPORATED  
I.INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY .
Corning Incorporated (“Corning”) respectfully submits the following comments in
response to the Networking and Information Research and Development , National Coordination 
Office (“ NITRD NCO”) , the Office of Science and Technology Policy (“OSTP”) , and their 
Request for Information  (“RFI”) on the development of an Artificial Intelligence (“AI”) Action 
Plan. As mentioned in  the RFI, t his Plan, as directed by a Presidential Executive Order  on 
January 23, 2025, will define the priority policy actions needed to sustain and enhance America's 
AI dominance, and to ensure that unnecessarily burdensome requirements do not hamper private 
sector AI innovation.1  
Corning applauds the opportunity  provided by  the NITRD NCO and OSTP to highlight  
with this RFI  the essential  role that data centers  have —and will continue to play —in powering 
the development of critical and emerging technologies  like AI. Accelerated  by the astonishing  
growth in AI  over the last several years , domestic and global demand for data is significantly 
increas ing, and the amount of bandwidth required to meet this growth will only continue to grow . 
As such, data centers will need to produce exponentially  more processing power and transmit 
more data  faster as new technologies are developed and gain increased adoption.  Given the 
significant computing demands that come with AI and other emerging technolog ies, Corning is 
confident  that the  forthcoming AI Action Plan  will be a valuable resource in ensuring that the 
data center industry can continue to “yield substantial benefits” for the United States both 
economically and socially.  
For more than 170 years, Corning has applied its unparalleled expertise in specialty glass, 
ceramics, and optical physics to develop products that have created new industries and 
transformed people’s lives. Most notably, Corning is the inventor and an indu stry-leading 
supplier of optical fiber that ha s brought high -speed broadband Internet access to millions of 
consumers nationwide.  Headquartered in Corning, New York, Corning continues to be a leading 
innovator in the development of communications infrastru cture.  As a testament to our 
1 See Executive Order,  Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence (Ja n. 23, 
2025) , https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential -actions/2025/01/removing -barriers -to-american -
leadership -in-artificial -intelligence/ .  


2 
General - Corning (L4)  commitment to connecting all Americans and ensuring strong U.S. supply of optical fiber and 
cable, Corning operates five cable plants and two fiber plants in North Carolina. We have 
invested more than $500 million in fiber and cable manufacturing since 202 0, nearly doubling 
our ability to serve the U.S. cable market.  Our focus remains on championing U.S. 
manufacturing and job creation.  
As the NITRD NCO  and OSTP  are aware, f iber has become the de -facto transmission 
media across the nation’s data center infrastructure thanks to its  unequaled characteristics: high 
speed , low latency, ultra-high-density , near limitless capacity, security, sustainability, and high 
durability/reliability . As a future -proof technology, fiber will also remain  a critical component of 
the high-speed broadband telecommunications  infrastructure  that data centers rely on  for decades 
to come .      
These comments seek to provide  the NITRD NCO  and OSTP  with insight into the role 
that Corning plays in fueling AI and the data center industry, as well as recommendations for  the 
development of the AI Action Plan to help foster Federal policies that ensure that our nation’s 
data centers keep pace with growing  demand . 
II.CORNING  SUPPLIES ESSENTIAL PRODUCTS INCLUDING  OPTICAL FIBER,
FIBER OPTIC CABLE, AND FIBER OPTIC CONNECTIVITY SOLUTIONS  TO
THE HYPERSCALE DATA CENTERS THAT FUEL AI AND OUR
CONNECTED WORLD .
Data centers have long relied on fiber broadband connections to carry out their 
operations, as fiber is the most capable,  reliable,  scalable, multi -use broadband infrastructure 
available. With its symmetrical speeds, near infinite bandwidth, and unmatched reliability, fiber 
ensures that broadband infrastructure is “future -proof.” Optical fiber is also the only technology 
that does not  impose an intrinsic bottleneck on the transmission medium.  
Optical fiber networks have revolutionized data transmission, and as the inventor of the 
first low -loss optical fiber, Corning has been a leader in this revolution . Today, there are 
approximately eight billion kilometers of fiber deployed around the globe —enough to travel to 
the sun 54 times.2 Simply put, fiber —and Corning fibe r, in particular —has connected Americans 
across the country with resilient, fast, and trusted broadband service, and today’s high -speed 
Internet, voice, and video connections would not be possible without Corning’s innovations in 
optical fiber.  The same holds true for Corning’s role with data centers in the United States.  
According to a recent report by Synergy Research Group (“Synergy”), “the number of 
large data centers operated by hyperscale providers increased to 992 at the end of 2023, and 
passed the thousand mark in early 2024.”3 In terms of future growth, Synergy found that it took 
just four years for the total capacity of hyperscale data centers to double, and that this capacity 
2 See The Evolution of Optical Fiber , Corning, 
https://www.corning.com/media/worldwide/coc/documents/Fiber/evolution -of-optical -fiber.pdf  (last 
visited Oct. 31, 2024) .  
3 See Hyperscale Data Centers Hit the Thousand Mark; Total Capacity is Doubling Every Four Years , 
Synergy Research Group (Apr. 17, 2024), https://www.srgresearch.com/articles/hyperscale -data-centers -
hit-the-thousand -mark -total-capacity -is-doubling -every -four-years .  


 
 
3 
 
General - Corning (L4)  will double again in the next four years.4 Synergy also expects that 120 -130 additional 
hyperscale data centers will come online each year, and “capacity growth will be driven 
increasingly by the even larger scale of those newly opened data centers, with generative AI 
technology being a prime reas on for that increased scale.”5 
The demand for artificial intelligence changes the game for data centers. Emerging AI 
data center network architectures represent a step change in passive optical content in the data 
center  —and at Corning, we’re excited to be working with the world’s largest hyperscale data 
centers to lay the fiber -rich foundation required for AI data center operations. To support current 
and future data flow demands, hyperscalers require modern fiber optic connectivity, and Corning 
has a long history of innovation to meet  hyperscalers’ demands. Corning’s fiber, cable, and 
connectivity products are used extensively inside of the data center to connect processors and 
servers, within the data center campus to connect data halls, and in long -haul networks to 
connect data cente rs nationwide. And just as importantly, we see this trend being a game -changer 
in the access network. To use this powerful compute capability, it requires high bandwidth 
networks that enterprises and consumers can access to realize AI’s potential.  
As critical and emerging technologies like AI accelerate demands for more computing 
infrastructure, hyperscalers will no doubt be faced with unique challenges. For example, inside 
the data center, the new large Graphical Processing Unit, or “GPU,” clusters  that AI calls for,  
require 10 times more the fiber connections than traditional data centers.6 Hyperscalers must be 
prepared to implement the smallest, densest fibers and connectors, as large language models, for 
example, require an enormous amount of fiber connectivity. These denser connections require 
product innovations across fiber, cable, and co nnectivity , and Corning is investing heavily in 
those capabilities in the United States.   
Corning has focused on the vectors of size, speed, and simplicity to create our next 
generation of fiber and cable solutions to help operators manage scalable network growth. 
Corning is seeing strong adoption of these solutions, which is helping hyperscale operators get 
these GPU clusters up and running faster, while also increasing the density of the network. We 
have reinvented our fiber to be 40% smaller than legacy fibers, allowing for tighter bends and 
greater flexibility in deploymen ts. This smaller fi ber paves the way for a revolution in cable 
density —doubling the fiber count in the same cable diameter. For our customers, that reduces the 
need for additional infrastructure buildouts. As highlighted in an article from Light  Reading in 
July 2024, it was noted that “Blackwell GPU [from Nvidia] rack houses 72 GPUs, each 
connected by 8 fibers, for a total of 576 fibers, or 18X as many fibers as a legacy CPU rack .”7 
 
4 See Id. 
5 Id. 
6 See Joe Gillard, A Q&A With Corning’ s Michael Crook on Data Center Growth , ISE Magazine (Sept. 
26, 2024), https://www.isemag.com/cande -netdev -ops-gis-open -source -networks/data -
centers/article/55143085/a -qa-with-cornings -michael -crook -on-data-center -growth  (“ISE Magazine 
Interview”).  
7 See Mike Dano, Corning lifts expectations amid fiber demand in AI data centers, Light Reading (July 8, 
2024), https://www.lightreading.com/data -centers/corning -lifts-expectations -amid -fiber-demand -in-ai-
data-centers . 


4 
General - Corning (L4)  As the creator and largest producer of fiber optics  in the world , Corning stands ready to 
provide hyperscalers and network providers with the infrastructure they need to support the 
future growth of AI and hyperscale data center solutions. Thanks to Corning’s trusted 
relationships with the world’s largest hyperscalers and its commitment to research and 
development, Corning is well suite d to anticipate unforeseen challenges that hyperscalers may 
encounter and to innovate proactively to address them.  
III.U.S. AND NORTH AMERICAN COMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE
MANUFACTURING IS CRITICAL TO NATIONAL SECURITY .
With respect  to AI and  the communication  infrastructure  eco-system, the North America n 
fiber industry includes fiber  and cable manufacturing within the United States , as well as 
connectivity product manufacturing by U .S. companies in Mexico . Moreover, given the 
multitude of individual components  necessary for enabling data centers to operate on a day -to-
basis  (e.g., fiber, chips, networking equipment, and more) , it is critical that the Federal 
government protect  and support  U.S, manufacturers by ensur ing the resiliency of the supply 
chain for these products . The U.S. Department of Commerce  (“DOC” ) and the U.S. Department 
of Homeland Security  (“DHS”)  have  previously  worked  together  to evaluate and protect the U.S. 
Information and Communications  Technology  (“ICT”) industry  which includes  fiber  optics  and 
other  connectivity products from supply chain vulnerabilities  that were  caused by the  COVID -19 
pandemic in a report released in February 2022 . The report state s, “The U.S. ICT industry relies 
on globalized and complex supply chains which complicates industry’s ability to elucidate all 
suppliers and ensure product integrity and security throughout the supply chain. The lack of 
supply chain transparency and security a ssurance presents several risks, such as the insertion of 
counterfeit or used parts into critical hardware components and the injection of malicious 
software code. While the private sector must take the lead on building more transparency and 
security into their supply chains, the U.S. Government should promote such practices through the 
following actions  including  promoting  supply chain risk management practices through 
procurement and monitoring efforts .”8 
As the Fiber Broadband Association also highlighted in their “Trusted Fiber”  white paper 
published  in Fe bruary 202 4, “national security must be a top consideration in the deployment of 
critical infrastructure. Trusting our fiber sources enables the U .S. to best protect its citizens, 
economy, and other institutions, notably from foreign aggression or terrorism. ”9 Given the 
anticipated growth in computing demand from AI and other advanced technologies, and 
increased demand for data centers that will result from that growth, Corning agrees that the 
NITRD NCO  and OSTP  should ensure that the Federal government takes measures to foster the 
continued market growth of domestic data centers and to further strengthen supply chain 
resilience.  
8 See Assessment of the Critical Supply Chains Supporting the U.S. Information and Communications 
Technology Industry,  U.S. Department of Commerce (Feb. 24. 2022), 
https://www.commerce.gov/sites/default/files/2022 -02/Assessment -Critical -Supply -Chains -Supporting -
US-ICT-Industry.pdf . 
9 See Fiber Broadband Association, Recommended Measures to Define and Deploy “Trusted Fiber” in the 
United States , (Feb. 27, 2024) , https://fiberbroadband.org/wp -content/uploads/2024/03/FBA -Trusted -
Fiber_ -Feb-2023.pdf .  


5 
General - Corning (L4)  Because of data centers’ fiber dependency, continued growth in this industry will 
necessarily increase demand for fiber, cable, and connectivity products. In anticipation of this 
demand, as well as the demand spurred b y infrastructure funding programs  and the domestic 
“Build America, Buy America ” (“BABA”)  provisions  in the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs 
Act (“IIJA”) , Corning has made substantial investments in its manufacturing facilities and 
capabilities  in the United States , including opening a new optical cable manufacturing campus in 
Hickory, North Carolina in March 2023.10 Corning maintains a strong and growing domestic 
manufacturing base in the U nited States for producing  fiber, but there still are  opportunities  with 
the AI Action Plan  for the U nited States  government to improve data centers’ market 
development, supply chain resilience, and data security .  
Corning believes that supply chain resiliency is a critical component of fully connecting 
Americans in rural and underserved communities . With respect to th is RFI specifically, the 
continued growth of the U.S. data center industry hinges on resilient supply chains  and a skilled 
workforce , among other factors.  While the global ICT supply chain is in a better place now than 
it was during the COVID -19 pandemic, challenges remain. There is sufficient North America 
capacity for passive optical connectivity products (e.g. frames, racks, cassettes, modules and 
cable assemblies) for all U.S. data center needs. Just like fiber and cable, Corning believes s elf-
sufficient capacity of passive optical connectivity products in North America is critical to support 
future AI data center growth  in the United States  
However, it  is important to  note that the p roduction of any one of the products that data 
centers rely upon cannot move forward if there is a delay or shortage of any one component, so 
the Federal government must be prepared to take action to ensure that the supply chains that feed 
our data centers  remain resilient and run as smoothly as possible.  
IV.CORNING FIBER , CABLE , AND CON NECTIVITY SOLUTIONS  ALSO PLAY A
CRITICAL ROLE IN ESTABLISHING HIGH -SPEED AND RELIABLE
NETWORKS THAT CONNECT DATA CENTERS NATIONWIDE .
As detailed above, Corning fiber provides data centers (and hyperscalers in particular) 
with fast, reliable broadband connections within their facilities. But as data center demand 
increases, so too will the need for similarly fast and reliable middle mile infrastructure, as robust 
fiber networks will be needed to interconnect these data hubs. Cor ning has played a critical role 
in paving those highways.  
Indeed, Corning has been laying the foundation for high -quality middle mile 
infrastructure, as its fiber has been specifically designed for long distance transmissions. 
Moreover, Corning has developed relationships with broadband providers across the country to 
help build  out middle mile network infrastructure . In August 2024, Corning and Lumen 
Technologies (“Lumen”) entered into an agreement for a substantial supply of next -generation 
10 See Corning Opens Optical Cable Manufacturing Campus in North Carolina to Accelerate Broadband 
Buildouts and Connect the Unconnected , Corning, News Release (Mar. 29, 2023), 
https://www.corning.com/worldwide/en/about -us/news -events/corning -opens -optical -cable -
manufacturing -campus -in-north -carolina -to-accelerate -broadband -buildouts -and-connect -the-
unconnected.html .  


6 
General - Corning (L4)  cable, which will more than double Lumen’s U .S. intercity fiber miles.11 Lumen will  now be able 
to offer significant capacity to major cloud data centers that are working to stay ahead of the 
demands of AI and other high -bandwidth applications.  Lumen has since partnered with Meta and 
Microsoft, two of the largest hyperscalers in the industry, to provide the fiber connectivity that 
their data centers need as the companies’ AI efforts continue to expand .12 
In addition to  the company’s partnership with Lumen , Corning recently entered into a 
multi -year purchase agreement with AT&T to provide next -generation fiber, cable, and 
connectivity solutions to support the expansion of AT&T’s fiber network.13 AT&T will rely on 
Corning fiber to help expand its network through organic investment; its Gigapower  joint 
venture with BlackRock, which is building networks outside of AT&T’s footprint; and several 
recently announced commercial open -access agreements.14  
As demand on data centers grows, so too will these facilities’ energy needs. But given the 
explosive growth in data centers, it will be imperative for industry to scale in a  more energy 
efficient way. Fiber offers the best pathway to achieve this goal.  Fiber has played a critical role in 
helping to reduce the levels of energy being consumed by data centers and will continue to do so 
moving forward.  
For instance, fiber can connect data center campuses to one another, allowing them to 
transmit between each other at high data rates. This in turn allows for more distributed power 
access for these data centers, as opposed to requiring them to rely on one location to supply 
higher levels of power. Also, because fiber optic cables rely on light rather than electric signals, 
fiber reduces energy consumption by up to 54% compared to copper -based networks,15 thereby 
allowing data centers to drastically reduce their energy consumption. Corning , itself, has seen 
11 See Corning and Lumen Reach Supply Agreement on Next -Generation Fiber -Optic Cable to Support 
Data Center AI Demands , Corning, News Release (Aug. 1, 2024), 
https://www.corning.com/worldwide/en/about -us/news -events/news -releases/2024/08/corning -and-lumen -
reach -supply -agreement -on-next-generation -fiber-optic -cable -to-support -data-center -ai-demands.html .  
12 See Sean Buckley, Lumen and Meta enter AI network pact , Lightwave + BTR (Oct. 21, 2024), 
https://www.lightwaveonline.com/home/article/55237111/lumen -and-meta -enter -ai-network -pact. 
13 See AT&T and Corning Expand Collaboration with Multi -Year Purchase Agreement , Corning, News 
Release (Oct. 28, 2024), https://www.corning.com/worldwide/en/about -us/news -events/news -
releases/2024/10/att -and-corning -expand -collaboration -with-multi -year-purchase -agreement.html .  
14 See Linda Hardesty, AT&T CEO John Stankey ponders big -picture thoughts about open access 
networks , Fierce Network (Oct. 24, 2024), https://www.fierce -network.com/broadband/att -ceo-john-
stankey -ponders -big-picture -thoughts -about -open -access -
networks?utm_medium=email&utm_source=nl&utm_campaign=FN -NL-
FierceNetworkBroadband&oly_enc_id=8985J6128645H7C .  
15 See Optical Fiber Sustainability and Safety , Corning, https://www.corning.com/optical -
communications/worldwide/en/home/products/fiber/optical -fiber-resource -center/environmental -and-
safety.html  (last visited Oct . 31, 2024). For additional information on the superior capability of optical 
fiber to support growing capacity demands, as well as data on its sustainability benefits as the industry 
scales, please see Corning’s white paper, A sustainable future with optical fiber , available at 
https://www.corning.com/media/worldwide/coc/documents/Fiber/white -paper/WP1000.pdf .  


7 
General - Corning (L4)  energy savings of more than 68,000  kWh per year thanks to the deployment of fiber architecture 
in its optical communications  headquarters in Charlotte, North Carolina .16
V.CONCLUSION
Corning appreciates the opportunity to provide input on the RFI that the NITRD NCO
and OSTP  issued for public response . As the lead er in fiber optic technology, Corning 
continually seeks to be at the forefront of the latest tech nology  frontier  with AI  and t he rapidly 
expanding data center industry is no exception.  Corning is proud to be playing such a key role in 
helping data centers expand quickly and responsibly  and would welcome the opportunity to 
further collaborate with  the NITRD NCO and OSTP  on these issues.  
Respectfully submitted,  
By: /s/ Michelle O’Neill  
Michelle O’Neill  
Senior Vice President, Global Government 
Affairs  
Corning Incorporated  
1001 Pennsylvania Avenue, Suite 420 North  
Washington, DC 20004  
March  14, 202 5 
16 See Piers Benjamin, Using Fiber to the Edge to Cut the Carbon , dotmagazine (Jan . 2023), 
https://www.dotmagazine.online/issues/digital -responsibility -and-sustainability/abundant -energy -through -
data-center -waste -heat/fiber -to-edge -to-cut-carbon .  


