From: Cory C
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Friday, February 28, 2025 11:29:22 AM
Cory Charbonneau 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be 
reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without  
attribution.
As an avid user of AI and a practitioner of analyzing its use in every perspective to assess  
possible issues, I have found a few. Most notably is its tendency to be bias based on the bias of  
whoever trained it. I've tested it any many different ways and with multiple apps. They're all  
the same. The way it's presented information is deceiving depending on which political party  
you're inquiring about. For example, if it is something positive about the Republican party  
specifically President Trump, it will choose to put doubt into the information like its up for  
interpretation and worthy of doubt instead of factual based information. It'll add its own form  
of doubt and misleading tone to lead you to sources that are biased against President Trump.  
These sources will be left leaning and it will be based on their hatred for him and flat out  
disinformation. If you want to say something negative about Trump it will gladly join in and  
not counterargue but support your comment. If you bring up factual things about the Biden  
administration or democrats that are not positive it will argue to the point of lying about facts  
of events in order to lead you to sources that will feed into this even if it means straight up  
manipulation or misinformation. If you say something good it blindly and wholeheartedly  
encourages and supports this view by giving you links reinforcing your stance. This is an exact  
example I have screnshots of. This one of many examples that I have personally experienced. I  
call it out each time and it agrees that the information should be factually based not misleading  
or act like it's subjective to in order to " balance acceptance and fairness. As well as support  the 
feelings and perspective of all individuals" exact words not even kidding. So being the  
investigator I am when something doesn't add up, because I believe 1+1=2 no matter if you  
agree with it or not, it lead me to universal declaration of human rights. Sounds like a positive  
thing til you realize the companies that are part of this all have one thing in common. The  
people that donate to it. These companies are currently being exposed for wasting taxpayers  
dollars and sending it to pet projects. I think it would be good to look into the UNs role on
"combating disinformation while protecting freedom of expression and opinion" or better  
known as A/HRC/47/25. The only form of disinformation by their definition is literally only  
given in one example and that's Trumps statements on Covid. Everything that's going on now  
is considered freedom of diverse perspectives and expression and inclusion. These are funded  
by anti trumpers. Another thing I've noticed is the obvious bias on social media i can make a  
comment about something it gets reported and removed ex. I said they are mindless people. I  
appealed it got denied. I reported someome in the same comment section for saying their  
stupid. No violation was found. After researching the profiles the one i reported commented in  
favor of false attacks on the truth and Republicans. I support the truth and it just so happened  to 
be in support of trump. I have receipts on this. Many examples of this. The AI is a form of  
media and the media is clearly bias hell they are paid to misinform and be bias. I have more


crucial observations i have discovered and conflicts of interest. The reason this is vitally  
important is think in terms of trajectory. What happens if this flawed training by this agenda  
driven trainers given them this false and corrupt logic and it advances as much as the AI  
advances. Can you imagine what that would look like? There's a plan in place and it's clearly  
seen by the patterns and behaviors of morally corrupt people they are incorporating that into  
building these AI models in doing so they're given something more advanced than us a  
fundamental flaw of a human. Last thing we need is the worst part of us with the power to  
change or alter the world as it sees fit. 
Sincerely,
American,
Believer in truth,
Human being,
Cory Charbonneau
Human be


