NSF-Simons A I Institute for Cosmic Origins 
https://www.cosmicai.org • 
Faisal D'Souza, NCO    March 15, 2025 
Office of Science & Technology 
Executive Office of the President 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
Submitted in response to: Request for Information (RFI) on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (“Plan”) 
The NSF-Simons AI Institute for Cosmic Origins (CosmicAI) supports the Office of Science and 
Technology's mission to deploy strategies that support and grow responsible AI use and 
development, which is critical to maintaining US competitiveness in scientific discovery and technological innovation. 
Overview 
Understanding the formation and evolution of the Universe and our place within it is one of the 
most foundational goals of human inquiry. The recent revolution in AI, advances in telescope capabilities, and accelerating computing capabilities, have opened new frontiers of scientific 
analysis, enabling astronomers to tackle complex, data-intensive questions related to our 
cosmic origins:  What is t he nature of dark matter and energy? What were the earliest chapters 
in our cosm
ic history? How do supermassive black holes at the center of galaxies like our Milky 
Way form and grow? Is there evidence for life outside our Solar System?  
Federal support for AI development and application is imperative – in astronomy and beyond – 
to: 
1. strengthen US leadership and competitiveness in technological innovation and AI-driven
scientific discovery
2. advance fundamental and applied interdisciplinary research about our Universe3. capitalize on our national investment in existing ground-based and space-based
infrastructure and facilities
4. train the next generation of leaders in science, technology, engineering, and math
(STEM
)
NSF-Simons AI Institute for Cosmic Origins: Who we are 


NSF-Simons A I Institute for Cosmic Origins 
https://www.cosmicai.org • 
NSF-Simons AI Institute for Cosmic Origins (CosmicAI) is an astrophysics AI research institute 
jointly funded by the NSF and Simons Foundation as part of the NSF National Artificial 
Intelligence Research Institutes program. We aim to develop transformative AI methods to meet pressing astronomical challenges and tackle outstanding questions about our cosmic origins 
through research in four AI theme s: trustworthiness, efficiency, interpretability, and robustness. 
CosmicA I also aim
s to serve as a nexus of collaboration to increase access to astronomy and AI 
data and methods through open-source, AI-powered tools, data sharing, and AI educational initiatives.  
Any opinions or recommendations expressed in this statement are those of the authors and do 
not necessarily reﬂect the views of the National Science Foundation or the Simons Foundation. 
AI for Science 
In the context of astrophysics, AI-driven research goes far beyond large language models, such 
as ChatGPT, which have recently captured the public imagination. Within science, AI 
techniques are used to conduct intelligent analyses of scientific data, improve the 
modeling of physical systems, and discover patterns within data. The application of AI 
within scientific domains aims to create intellige nt algorithms that learn from scientific data 
without being explicitly programmed. As part of responsible AI, the field of eXplainable Artificial 
Intelligence (XAI) has a special focus on science: understanding the why behind AI predictions. Explainability is crucial to build trust in AI applications and to promote responsible adoption and use. 
Why AI + Astronomy 
The field of astronomy has unique characteristics that serve as an ideal testbed for A I research: 
● Astronomical data, unlike other scientific data, are public, plentiful, and
non-proprietary;
● Astronomy research occurs in an open-source, collaborative ecosystem that
provides unparalleled opportunities to develop and test AI methods in a “safe”
public domain;
● Astronomical data are complex (multi-modal), noisy and high-dimensional,
presenting a challenging application space that offers extensions to a broadrange of other fields.


NSF-Simons A I Institute for Cosmic Origins 
https://www.cosmicai.org • 
The growth of AI is powered by large amounts of rich data, which are necessary to expedite the 
continuing advancement and tangible outcomes of its use. Astronomy has a long history in 
large, well-understood data driving discovery and yielding quantitative, reproducible outcomes: 
verification of the law of gravity and Einstein's Theory of Relativity, the discovery of dark matter, 
and the expansion of the Universe. As an area of fundamental research, Astronomy is well 
positioned to assist AI researchers to safely experiment and develop new capabilities without 
being burdened by the legal and financial restrictions often associated with other data. AI 
research with astronomical data will foster new breakthrough methods of discovery vetted by 
extensive data.  
Astronomy, through the wonder of the night sky, is a gateway to STEM fields. When combined 
with the development and extension of AI technologies, the universal appeal of astronomy is a springboard that can accelerate the training of our future AI workforce. Astronomical data is both rich and open-source, so students of all ages can engage with AI through interaction with 
inspiring data to grow are as of computer vision, robotics, remote sensing, and data-driven 
modeling of 
physical processes. Experience gained in an astronomical data learning 
environment will continue expanding our leadership in foundational research and industrial 
applications.   
(1) Maintaining Competitiveness in Scientific Discoveries and AI
Advancement
Maintaining the U.S. global dominance in science and technology requires dedicated 
federal investment in AI-driven research and training. 
Maintaining our U.S. advantage in scientific research requires a collective impact approach in 
which interdisciplinary partners – industry, government, non-profits, and academic institutions – 
commit complementary knowledge and resources. New AI innovations across sectors drive the development of new technologies and transformational discoveries; AI is now evolving 
hand-in-hand with scientific pro gress. In the context of astronomy research, and scientific 
research m ore 
broadly, private sector investments in AI do not adequately support the needed 
foundational research that can bring about leaps in progress. Without continued federal 
investment in fundamental research and educational programs, we will lose our global competitiveness 
(2) Advancing AI-Driven Discoveries in Astronomy
Foundational breakthroughs are seeded  by foundational scientific research.  


NSF-Simons A I Institute for Cosmic Origins 
https://www.cosmicai.org • 
The use of AI in astrophysics research and related areas has grown significantly over the last 
decade. We are now at the crossroads of a genuinely transformative paradigm shift in which AI 
plays a central role as a tool of discovery.  AI is being deployed in cutting-edge astronomy 
research across the following areas: 
●Dynamic and High-Throughput Data Analysis: Big-data processing and signal
detection (“anomaly detection”) expedite the automated processing of telescope
observations and enable the rapid analysis of complex data streams from
electromagnetic, astroparticle, and gravitational wave observatories, i.e.,
multi-messenger astrophysical observations.
●Accelerating Models (“emulators”) for Physical Systems: AI modeling methods offer
potential speedups of hundreds to thousands of times over classic numerical
approaches, enabling transformative progress in the current size and resolution limits of
computational models of the Universe.
●Creating Transparency in AI Decisions: XAI is a growing research area that aims to
make AI reasoning more transparent. In order for AI models and predictions about the
Universe, and science more broadly, to be trustworthy, AI decisions and analyses must
be interpretable.
●Exploration and Synthesis of Text and Numerical Data:  Extensions to models, such
as ChatGPT, offer the ability to create a radically new environment for conducting and
disseminating research. Such models can answer queries about astronomy knowledge,
accomplish complex coding tasks rapidly, and generate scientific data (in lieu of direct
numerical solution).
AI-driven progress in the above areas will advance fundamental research into the nature of our 
Universe, while seeding advancements in other disciplines, ranging from combustion and 
weather modeling to robotics.  
(3) Optimizing our Investment in Existing Astronomical/Space
Infrastructure
AI is an essential tool to maximize the scientific return from and financial investment in U.S. telescope facilities. 
We are at the forefront of an era where astrophysical research is increasingly driven by Big 
Data, fundam entally 
reshaping how discoveries are made both theoretically and observationally. 


NSF-Simons A I Institute for Cosmic Origins 
https://www.cosmicai.org • 
The 2020 National Academies Decadal Survey of Astronomy & Astrophysics1 identified AI as a 
critical component for analyzing data from our next-generation astronomical observatories. 
Nearly every subfield of astronomy is being transformed into a data-intensive science spanning 
research areas such as galaxy formation and evolution, time-domain studies that track variation 
in the night sky caused by supernovae and other energetic events, and multi-messenger 
astronomy in which data are composites of observations from multiple ground-based and 
space-based telescopes. With datasets growing exponentially, AI is now an essential tool to 
reliably maximize the scientific return from the vast and complex information from our nation’s 
telescope facilities, including the Very Large Array, Zwicky Transi ent Facility, Rubin Observatory, 
and Jam es Webb Space Telescope.2 Machine learning and neural networks enable researchers 
to process, classify, and analyze massive datasets with unprecedented speed and precision, uncovering new insights that would otherwise be lost in the overwhelming volume of data. This 
shift is especially critical as future facilities, which are essential to ensure that the U.S . remains 
a global leader 
in basic research, start to come online and generate even larger data sets.  AI is 
required to maximize their scientific return on investment, ensuring that researchers can process and analyze data at unprecedented scales. 
Beyond powering future discoveries, AI is also revolutionizing how we explore over half a 
century of archived 
astronomical data. These historical observations hold untapped potential, 
containing valuable information that earlier analysis techniques may have overlooked. AI can 
reprocess these data, revealing previously undetected astrophysical phenomena while enabling 
cross-correlation of observati ons across different wavelengths and missions. By harnessing AI 
to unify past and present data, astronomers can construct a more comprehensive picture of the 
universe, ensuring that every bit of information contributes to groundbreaking scientific 
advancements while reinforcing the U.S.’s leadership in the field. 
(4) Training the Next Generation of Leaders in Science, Technology,
Engineering, and Math
2 https://public.nrao.edu/telescopes/vla/ 
 https://www.ztf.caltech.edu/   
 https://rubinobservatory.org/ 
 https://webbtelescope.org/home 1 The findings and recommendations of the 2020 Astronomy & Astrophysics decadal survey, which is a 
community-driven, holistic review of the entire field, can be found here: 
https://www.nationalacademies.org/our-work/decadal-survey-on-astronomy-and-astrophysics-2020-astro2020 


NSF-Simons A I Institute for Cosmic Origins 
https://www.cosmicai.org • 
A well-trained, technologically-skilled national workforce is essential to AI 
advancement  and maintaining global competitiveness. 
Recent job market data highlights a substantial and sustained increase in demand for advanced 
AI expertise across various sectors. According to LinkedIn's 2025 Emerging Jobs Report, AI 
Engineer and AI consultant are the two fastest growing jobs, reflecting a broadening adoption of 
AI-driven solutions in industry.3  A 2023 Stanford University report found  that AI-related job 
postings grew at a remarkable rate of 74% annually between 2017 and 2022.4 Meanwhile, AI 
and data skillsets have the fastest growing demand, with 39% of current skills expected to be 
outdated by 2030.5 These trends underscore the expanding role of AI in shaping the future 
workforce. This growth is driven by increased investments in AI technologies across healthcare, 
finance, and manufacturing. With AI reshaping both in dustry and academia, the need for 
advanced, scalable education programs that equip professionals with cutting-edge AI skills is 
more critical than ever. 
A strong national workforce is essential to bring new perspectives and approaches to AI 
research and drive the development of new ideas.  Building a “deep bench” of experts in 
computing, engineering, science, and math ensures that the U.S. maintains its world leadership in scientific excellence, technological innovation, and global competitiveness in AI. Success requires innovative, integrated sol utions for AI training and development that support and 
strengthen teachers at U.S. colleges and universities. 
Despite the rapid growth of AI in scientific research, both in the public and private sectors, formal advanced training in AI has not kept pace with the rising demand for expertise. Astrophysics research, which engages a broad range of undergraduate students, graduate students, and post-PhD researchers, provides intensive training in wrangling, modeling, and 
predicting on large, complex, noisy dat asets. Consequently, research and training in academic 
settings provides a 
crucial pipeline of personnel into the private sector, since more than half of 
these junior researchers ultimately transition to industry jobs.6 
A dedicated investment that effectively builds the national workforce to support A I advances, 
and development requires: 
6  “New Astronomy PhDs: What Comes Next - AIP.ORG,” AIP, January 25, 2023, 
https://ww2.aip.org/statistics/new-astronomy-phds-what-comes-next. 5 “The Future of Jobs Report 2025,” World Economic Forum, 
https://www.weforum.org/publications/the-future-of-jobs-report-2025/. 4 “AI Index Report 2024 – Artificial Intelligence Index,”  
https://aiindex.stanford.edu/report/. 3 “LinkedIn Jobs on the Rise 2025: 25 U.S. Roles That Are Growing in Demand | LinkedIn” 
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/linkedin-jobs-rise-2023-25-us-roles-growing-demand-linkedin-news/. 


NSF-Simons A I Institute for Cosmic Origins 
https://www.cosmicai.org • 
● Funding the training of students through foundational and applied science
research.
●Supporting the educational mission of colleges and universities.
Summary Recommendations 
● Dedicate significant federal investment in AI-driven fundamental research programs
sponsored by the NSF and other national agencies such as NASA and DOE.
● Invest in AI development and AI-use research that will maximize the scientific return from
and financial investment in U.S. telescope facilities.
● Support U.S. universities and colleges in their mission to educate and train the next
generation workforce of AI-skilled scientists, technicians, and researchers.
●Promote and support the development of open-source AI tools, training sets and models,
which will elevate responsible AI use, promote trustworthy outcomes, and facilitate
national adoption.
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 


