March 5, 2025  
From:   Council on Competitiveness  
Deborah L. Wince -Smith, President and CEO  
On behalf of the  Council on Competitiveness, and its National Commission on Innovation 
and Competitiveness Frontier s, thank you for the opportunity to provide our views on 
development of the Administration’s new Artificial Intelligence Action Plan  in response  to 
President Trump’s January 23 Executive Order.  
The Counc il is a non-partisan leadership coalition of CEOs, university presidents, labor 
leaders, and national laboratory directors who promote national policies to spur U.S. 
productivity growth, extend U.S. global technolog y leadership, increase prosperity for 
Americans, and help drive the global success of American businesses.  
The National  Commission is a Council initiative  bringing  together national leaders from 
business, academia, and national laboratories to explore important domestic and global 
competitiveness issues of the day, to consider challenges emerging on the horizon, and to identify new pathways to greater U.S. productivity, prosperity, and economic and national 
security. The National Commission is co -chaired by Brian Moynihan, Chair, Bank of 
America; Dan Helfrich, Chair and CEO  emeritus , Deloitte Consulting LLP; Joa n Gabel, 
Chancellor, University of Pittsburgh; Kenneth Cooper, International President, 
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers; Thom Mason, Director, Los Alamos National Laboratory; and me. 
National Commission Recommendation on Artificial Intelligence  
In December 2024, the National Commission released a Call to Action that includes an urgent and high priority recommendation on artificial intelligence , in light of the 
technology’s potential for large scale disruption and widespread transformation. 
The potent ial for large-scale AI -driven disruption and transformation.  The Age of AI has 
suddenly arrived, with hallmarks of a major discontinuity. Generative AI is scaling faster than any technology in history. It took less than two years from the public release of 
ChatGPT for generative AI to reach search engines, laptops and desktops, and smart 
phones used by billions of people worldwide. It is already penetrating business processes, 
office work, and the classroom.  
Artific ial intelligence is expected to lead to a massive global transformation of the 
economy, society, human activity, and national security. AI is revolutionizing the scientific process and could propel innovation to dramatically higher levels. It is expect ed to drive 
significant productivity gains.  


AI could disrupt labor at every level of the economy—task, job, organizational, industry, 
occupational, and labor market —and will have an impact on employment and occupations 
historically unaffected much by automation such as doctors and financial advisors. An International Monetary Fund analysis estimates that AI will affect almost 40 percent of jobs 
globally. In the advanced economies, due to their more cognitively-intensive employment 
structure, about 60 percent of jobs may face an impact.
i  
AI is going t o have game -changing impact on national security, and i t is being applied 
across the defense enterprise —in intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance; logistics 
and maintenance; command and control; weapons and vehicles. It promises to alter military capabilities and the character of war. As AI converges with autonomous systems, 
including machine -to-machine applications, there will be new approaches to defense.  
Signs the  economy is beginning to  realign around AI. The  restructuring of an economy 
around powerful technologies is inherently disruptive, both creating and destroying 
businesses, markets, and jobs. In the process, there are new market opportunities and 
new business formation, supply chains realign, labor markets shift, there is need for new skills, and investment capital flows in new directions.  
Over the  past 20 -30 years as the digital revolution unfolded, entire industries were 
disrupted, start -ups proliferated, new corporate giants took their places in the Fortune top 
10, the way products are made and services provided changed dramatically, work ers had 
to acquire new skills, communications and how people interact changed, there has been new global and domestic regulation, and more. The AI revolution promises even more profound change, and on a much shorter time -scale.  
We are alre ady beginning to see signs of possible restructuring. For example : 
•Massive amo unts of capital are flowing into AI. Meta, Alphabet, Amazon, and Microsoft
plan to spend $320 billion combined in AI and data centers in 2025, up from $246
billion in 2024.ii One third of venture capital invested globally in 2024 went to AI start -
ups, a total of $131 billion, an increase or more than 50 percent over 2023.iii
•New business appli cations filed with the IRS by start -ups that aim to develop AI
technologies or produce goods or services that use, integrate, or rely on AI took a very
sharp upward turn beginning in 2022.iv
•A U.S. AI -related company (NVIDIA) has joined the trillion dollar market cap club.
•To meet the escalating need for electricity to power AI data centers, the U.S. AI leaders
signed new agreements to access nuclear energy, with the potential to disrupt thenuclear industry and drive deployment of “new” nuclear.


•AI text -to-image and text -to-video is shaking up the creative industries and
democratizing the tools for creative works. These AI tools have raised concerns about
intellectual property rights policies.
There is great  uncertainty about the future impact of AI on the economy, national security, 
industry sectors, education, society, the workforce, discovery, and other technology 
advancements. There are also profound questions that policymakers will face, and businesses, the workforce, and the citizenry will look to national policymakers and experts 
for answers and action. 
RECOMMENDATION: Congress should establish and fully fund a bi -partisan National 
Commission on Artificial Intelligence. T he Commission should form a multidisciplinary 
team —scientists and engineers from different fields, AI/ML experts, futurists, 
macroeconomists, educators, sociologists, industry specialists, military strategists, 
foreign affairs experts, financial experts, and others —to develop several future scenarios 
on AI’s potential impacts, similar to the world energy system scenarios produced annually by the International Energy Agency or the Global Trends scenarios produced every four years by the National Intelligence Community’s Strategic Futures Group.  
Each scenari o would be based on a variable  set of assumptions about speed of AI/ML 
advancement; speed and level of penetration in the economy, society, industry, workplace, and military; level of regulation; strategic competitor actions; etc. Using 
modeling and simulation, plausible scenarios for different timeframes would be developed 
showing possible impacts on the macro -economy and productivity, risk or advantage in 
military capabilities, changes to the labor market, workforce knowledge and skill needs, level and speed of discovery and technological advancement in different fields and in convergence of AI with other enabling technologies, societal impacts, etc. These scenarios would provide an analytic al framework for leaders and policymakers in a range of domains 
as they work to develop strategies and policies for an uncertain future and help them see a 
range of possibilities.  
The Comm ission would also convene a multidisciplinary group to explore and gather 
insights on some of the big questions posed by rapid advancement of AI/ML such as: the 
potential need for policies or programs to respond to the fall -out from major AI disruptions; 
the impact of potentially large productivity dividends; changes in what humans need to 
learn or know; what the impact might be of higher levels of new discoveries and technological innovation on accelerating time frames; and how work will evolve around 
new kinds of human-machine collaboration.  


i Gen -AI: Artificial Intelligence and the Future of Work, International Monetary Fund, January 2024. 
ii Big Tech Lines Up over $300 Billion in AI Spending for 2025, Financial Times, February 7, 2025.  
iii AI Start -ups Grabbed a Third of Global VC Dollars in 2024, Pitchbook News and Analysis, January 9, 2025.  
iv Starting Up AI, E. Dinlersoz, et.al., Center for Economic Studies, Census Bureau, August 2024.  


