CRA’s Response to the Request for Information on the 
Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
March 14, 2025 
Written by: Alex Aiken (Stanford University), Gabrielle Allen (University of Wyoming), 
Ovidiu Daescu (The University of Texas at Dallas), David Danks (University of 
California, San Diego), Sebastian Elbaum (The University of Virginia), Rayid Ghani 
(Carnegie Mellon University), Catherine Gill (Computing Community Consortium), 
William Gropp (University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign), David Jensen (University of 
Massachusetts, Amherst), Ming Lin (University of Maryland), Daniel Lopresti (Lehigh 
University), Brian Mosley (Computing Research Association), Manish Parashar 
(University of Utah), Rajmohan Rajaraman (Northeastern University), William Regli 
(University of Maryland), Eve Schooler (Oxford University), Shashi Shekhar (University 
of Minnesota Twin Cities), Robert Sloan (University of Illinois Chicago), Michela Taufer 
(University of Tennessee Knoxville), Matthew Turk (Toyota Technological Institute at 
Chicago), Helen Wright (Computing Research Association), and Holly Yanco (University 
of Massachusetts, Lowell).  This response is prepared by the Computing Research Association (CRA), 
assisted by the Computing Community Consortium (CCC) and CRA-Industry 
(CRA-I). CRA is an association of over 270 North American computing research 
organizations, both academic and industrial, and partners from six professional 
computing societies. The CCC's mission, a CRA subcommittee, is to enable the 
pursuit of innovative, high-impact computing research that aligns with pressing 
national and global challenges. The mission of CRA-I, another subcommittee of 
CRA, is to convene industry partners on computing research topics of mutual 
interest and connect them with CRA’s academic and government constituents for 
mutual benefit and improved societal outcomes. Please note any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations 
expressed in this material are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect 
the views of the authors’ affiliations, or of the National Science Foundation, which 
funds the CCC. 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be 
reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution. 


Artificial Intelligence is rapidly improving and becoming a crucial resource for scientific 
research across nearly all disciplines, as well as increasingly being adopted throughout 
industry and the federal government. The United States clearly recognizes the vital 
importance of maintaining leadership in AI development to enhance global 
competitiveness and fortify the security of our research ecosystem, and the Computing 
Research Association welcomes this opportunity to provide recommendations for a 
national AI Action Plan.  A comprehensive national strategy must prioritize continued federal funding for 
fundamental academic research in AI. Academic research is often the precursor to 
industry success, as demonstrated in the National Research Council’s so-called “Tire 
Tracks” chart, which depicts the evolution of American IT sectors, with university 
research preceding products and markets for many years. The field of AI research itself 
was born from academic work dating back many decades by pioneers such as Alan 
Turing, John McCarthy, and Geoffrey Hinton. More recent examples include the 2024 
Nobel Prize in Physics, shared by John J. Hopfield and Geoffrey Hinton for their 
pioneering research in neural networks, and the 2025 Turing Award, (colloquially 
thought of as the Nobel prize in computing) given to Andrew Barto and Richard Sutton 
for their foundational work, dating back to the 1990s, in reinforcement learning.  Innovation in AI has historically been driven by a synergy between academic and 
industry research. The Tire Tracks chart shows that research in industry does not 
replace university research, nor does university research supplant industry efforts. 
Instead, the two research communities are complementary. More generally, it is critical 
that the national AI Action Plan recognizes that research informs and advances 
application, academia complements and reinforces industry’s efforts, and both play key 
roles in innovation. The following recommendations detail key strategies for the federal government to 
undertake to ensure that AI continues to strengthen the American economy, bolster our 
national security, and benefit all Americans. 
Fund Precompetitive Research Conducted in Academia 
●Industry research tends to focus on incremental or product-driven advancements,
whereas academic research explores foundational innovations, which have the
potential to revolutionize the technology landscape in five, ten, or more years.
Additionally, academic research is able to explore a wide breadth of approaches
and techniques precisely because it is not driven by profit. Foundational research
involves more than simply improving existing methods for guaranteed returns,
and academic research labs are best positioned to pursue those questions. It is2 


impossible to predict what the next AI breakthrough may be, but it is vital that it 
come from the US. Therefore, it is critical that the Federal government maintain a 
broad and diverse portfolio of investments in basic AI research. 
Establishing Evaluation Frameworks for AI Model Benchmarking/Testing 
●To mitigate potential risks, robust evaluation infrastructure is critical. This would
include a tiered sandbox environment where AI systems undergo rigorous testing
before deployment. Each tier would progressively increase the complexity of the
testing, to measure the AI model’s impact on individuals, specific regulations, and
the economy. This multi-faceted approach would enable researchers, developers
and federal officials to identify and address potential issues before widespread
deployment, ensuring responsible and beneficial AI development.Fully Fund NAIRR and FASST 
●The National AI Research Resource (NAIRR) and the Frontiers in Artificial
Intelligence for Science, Security, and Technology (FASST) initiatives each
receive strong bipartisan support in both chambers of Congress. NAIRR is
designed to provide AI resources broadly to researchers and innovators across
sectors and problems in all US states. At the same time, FASST aims to support
deep research efforts, specifically scientific and national security challenges
relevant to the Department of Energy. Both represent important resources that
enable the Federal government to accelerate innovation and insights in AI, much
as the government has historically done in astronomy, physics, and other fields.
These efforts complement one another, and both should be fully funded without
delay.Computing Efficiency Research  
●The Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory’s (LBNL) 2024 Report on US Data
Energy Use describes how data center energy demands have tripled over the
past decade, and are expected to double or triple again by 2028, to
approximately 6.7 to 12 percent of total US electricity supply. These enormous
increases in electricity demand will necessitate creating new transmission and
generation networks and infrastructure. However, creating new infrastructure
does not solve the root of the problem: the energy demand of AI models. The
Federal government should pursue a multi-agency effort across the Department
of Energy, NSF, and other relevant Federal research agencies to fund
fundamental computing research and establish public-private partnerships. Doing
so would enhance the overall efficiency of all AI models, directly impacting costs
and enabling both US researchers and companies to better leverage innovative
AI technologies. These research efforts should address energy efficiency at
every step of the AI lifecycle, from improved data synthesis and utilization, to3 


optimized algorithms, to more energy-efficient computing techniques, to 
fundamentally new approaches to training and using AI models. 
Ensuring Human-centered AI 
●In order to ensure AI models are beneficial to all Americans and the American
economy, it is critical that we harness the benefits of AI while mitigating the risks.
This all must be done in ways that center human needs and interests; this is
especially relevant for rural Americans who may have different needs and uses
than are the focus of current AI. Opportunities for AI to advance American
prosperity will not materialize if these systems behave in ways counter to
personal freedom and human dignity, or if they harm individuals and
communities. As directed in the first Trump administration (EO 13960), AI models
and systems must be trustworthy, as well as reliable, safe, and understandable.
A human-centered approach to AI is particularly important in high-stakes sectors
and decisions such as healthcare and the law. Substantial research is required
on the aspects of AI systems that matter for trustworthiness, including
explainability, interpretability, privacy, safety, security, and much more. At the
same time, clear national priorities and guidelines, along with dynamic, adaptive,
intelligent governance (not mere regulations), must be developed to mitigate
legal ambiguities and advance human-centered and human-supporting AI.Education and Workforce 
●AI is changing the nature of work, creating jobs in some areas and replacing jobs
in others. Federal funding must be allocated towards programs to re-skill and
up-skill the workforce to better prepare Americans for an AI-integrated economy.
The Federal government should also continue to fund research on how best to
create AI that augments, rather than replaces, human workers, such as the NSFsponsored Future of Work at the Human-Technology Frontier program.
●The Federal government can also play an important role in facilitating
academic/industry partnerships to better prepare the future generation of AI
researchers for the job market. The NSF’s TIP Directorate is perfectly positioned
to enable these partnerships and to promote relationships that provide students
with research experience, as well as academic-industry research collaborations.
Furthermore, expanding funding to support undergraduate research opportunities
would increase the likelihood that domestic undergraduate students can gain the
experience and mentorship needed to pursue advanced degrees, such as a PhD,
further strengthening the pipeline to AI research careers. These processes could
also be replicated in other areas of the Federal government.
4 


