March 15, 2025 
Faisal D’Souza 
National Coordination Office 
Networking & Information Technology Research & Development  
National Science Foundation 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
Via email to: ostp-ai-rfi@nitrd.gov 
Re: Request for Information on the Development of an AI Action Plan  
Dear Mr. D’Souza: 
I am co-founder and CEO of Credtent, a Public Benefit Corporation founded by 
US-based technologists, scientists, and creatives. Credtent’s mission is to lead the effort 
of building market-driven frameworks for licensing copyrighted content used in AI 
development, preventing exploitation of America’s incomparable creators while driving 
economic growth and innovation across the AI and creative industries. 
We appreciate the Trump Administration’s focus on supporting American innovators and 
innovation. In many cases, we believe that market-based private sector activities are 
better suited to promote innovation than heavy-handed regulation that risks stifling 
innovation. Third-party neutral solutions like Credtent that audit copyright rights and 
content usage and support market-based pricing can avoid the need for burdensome 
and costly government oversight. However, there is a critical strategic role that the Administration can play, and we 
recommend that the Administration include in its AI Action Plan several 
innovation-forward policies to ensure America’s AI dominance and an economically 
sustainable generative AI (“GenAI”) ecosystem.1  
1 This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential information. The government may reuse document 
contents in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 


The Problem: Today, Generative AI Risks The Destruction of 
America’s Creative Industries 
America’s creators, in publishing, the film and TV industry, music, art, and associated 
industries, are the inspiration and envy of the world. Creative industries are foundational 
to U.S. economic leadership worldwide, making an over $1 trillion contribution to the 
American economy, which amounts to 4.3% of US Gross Domestic Product, and 
employing over 5 million workers nationwide.2  
GenAI applications are trained with existing data to create new data outputs in the form 
of expressive material such as text, images, audio or video,3 and are having a 
transformational effect on how we work, how we create, and how we live. The United 
States and foreign countries are spending billions on computational power, manpower, 
and development resources to build AI models and applications. We believe these 
efforts drive innovation and should be encouraged.   
GenAI models require immense amounts of data to be trained effectively. However, this 
data is rarely owned by those developing the model. Rather, the essential ingredient of 
GenAI is the work created and owned by others, i.e., copyrighted material such as 
books, articles, music and visual art. 
While AI companies have signed licensing deals with major media companies,4 those 
firms own only a fraction of creative works that are being used to train GenAI models. 
The estimated 86 million individual creators in the U.S.,5 whose copyrighted work is also 
being used to train many models, are not giving permission or receiving payment for the 
use of their work. The Journal of Nature estimates that over 70% of training data is 
sourced without the consent of the creator or rights holder.6 Although it can be difficult 
6 https://www.nature.com/articles/s42256-024-00878-8  5 https://whop.com/blog/creator-economy-statistics/  4 
https://www.copyright.gov/economic-research/economic-implications-of-ai/Identifying-th
e-Economic-Implications-of-Artificial-Intelligence-for-Copyright-Policy-FINAL.pdf ,
Section 5.3. 3 https://news.mit.edu/2023/explained-generative-ai-1109; 
https://www.copyright.gov/ai/Copyright-and-Artificial-Intelligence-Part-2-Copyrightability-
Report.pdf 2
https://www.arts.gov/news/press-releases/2024/arts-cultural-sector-hit-all-time-high-202
2-value-added-us-economy ;
https://www.iipa.org/files/uploads/2025/02/IIPA-Copyright-Industries-in-the-U.S.-Econom
y-Report-2024_ONLINE_FINAL.pdf
2 


for creators to determine whether their work is being used in AI systems, one study 
showed that 67% of creators are aware of unauthorized use.7   
Moreover, in addition to the economic harm to creators from uncompensated use of 
their works, we believe that the increase in demand for GenAI content—estimated to 
grow to a $60 billion market for music and AV generated content alone by 20288—will 
be at the expense of demand for human-created work. 
Developing a globally dominant GenAI industry requires protecting the rights of all 
American creators, whether or not they are full time creative professionals. Failing to 
protect these rights threatens creative industries and the U.S. economy. 
The Solution: Empowering American Creators to Monetize (or Protect) 
Their Work When Used For GenAI While Mitigating Risk for AI 
Developers 
The good news is that there is a clear path forward toward a market-based solution that 
will empower American creators and strengthen the U.S. economy as a whole while 
enabling GenAI firms to thrive in an environment of greater certainty. The even better 
news is that the Trump Administration can accelerate adoption of that solution with 
targeted strategic policy measures. 
A neutral system that enables American creators to receive compensation for AI-related 
use of their work (or to opt out of AI use)9 and for AI developers to be able to develop 
and deploy models with confidence about their legality will benefit American innovators 
in both the creative and AI industries, and have an outsized effect on how content is 
licensed and paid for globally. 
For example, Credtent’s Independent Creative Registry Platform enables creators to 
create a profile and content library which enables them to license to AI developers or 
exclude from AI applications their work as they choose. If a creator and AI company 
wish to contract for a license of a particular work or set of content, they agree on a price 
through a bidding process and payment is made through Credtent’s transparent 
9
https://www.copyright.gov/economic-research/economic-implications-of-ai/Identifying-th
e-Economic-Implications-of-Artificial-Intelligence-for-Copyright-Policy-FINAL.pdf ,
Section 5.3 (referring to allowing rightsholders to opt out as a “middle-ground solution”).8
https://www.cisac.org/Newsroom/news-releases/global-economic-study-shows-human-c
reators-future-risk-generative-ai  7 https://assets.cla.co.uk/media/2023/12/ai-research-report.pdf 
3 


 
payment system (e.g., annual payments, usage-based fees). Credtent tracks AI content 
usage in real time and provides a neutral audit for both parties. 
In addition, Credtent has introduced Creative Origin Badges, a free-to-use, three-badge 
system designed to help creators disclose the extent of use of AI in their content 
creation processes. This system not only supports creators but also helps AI companies 
select credible, licensed data for legally compliant, efficient AI training. 
 
While creators benefit from being able to decide whether or not they want to license 
their content, and be compensated for its use, AI companies benefit from being able to 
access available data deeply (e.g., through approval to actually reference an artist or 
their work in a generative AI prompt) while minimizing risk of copyright infringement and 
costly lawsuits.  
 
Unfortunately, while GenAI growth has exploded on billions of dollars of investment,10 
little of that investment has gone to the creators whose data is being used or to the 
development and deployment of third-party solutions for the exploitation of creators’ IP 
rights. Although we believe that the private sector must take the lead using 
market-based approaches that can adapt as technology develops, we recommend that 
the Administration continue its historic AI leadership by including the following policy 
priorities in its AI Action Plan to accelerate that effort and its global impact: 1. Supporting a Copyright Infringement Safe Harbor 
We encourage the Administration to champion legislation to shield generative AI 
developers from copyright infringement liability if they comply with market-driven 
standards for content licensing and disclosure such as Credtent that safeguard the IP 
rights of creators whose works are used in training data. A safe harbor 
10 See, e.g., 
https://www.gspublishing.com/content/research/en/reports/2023/03/27/d64e052b-0f6e-4
5d7-967b-d7be35fabd16.html  
4 


provision—conditioned on adherence to transparent, industry-recognized standards for 
licensed data usage, opt-in participation, and clear provenance tracking—would help 
drive a balanced framework that both encourages AI innovation and respects the rights 
of content creators. This concept has been endorsed as a ‘middle-ground solution’ by 
the US Copyright Office. 
2.Require GenAI Vendors To Use Audited Models.
The federal government should establish generative AI procurement criteria that favor 
vendors implementing audited AI sourcing models. By prioritizing vendors who undergo 
third-party audits to verify that their training datasets are obtained through licensed, 
public domain, or opt-in agreements, the government can help set a market standard 
that discourages AI models built on unlicensed scraping or copyright infringement. Such 
a policy would not only protect artists, writers, and other content creators but also foster 
innovation by incentivizing AI companies to develop transparent, accountable data 
collection practices.  3.Provide Strong Global Leadership To Protect U.S. Creators
As in other areas of AI, it’s essential that the U.S. take an international leadership role.  
By integrating AI-related copyright protections into trade agreements, bilateral 
negotiations, and World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) discussions, the U.S. 
can push for global standards that require AI developers to respect creators' rights. 
Further, strengthening enforcement mechanisms under existing trade 
agreements—such as the USMCA and WTO TRIPS provisions—can deter copyright 
abuse while ensuring that American creators benefit from emerging AI markets rather 
than being exploited by them. 
Additionally, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), in collaboration with the 
Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR), can advocate for international licensing 
frameworks that prevent unauthorized data scraping and ensure fair compensation for 
artists, writers, and other content creators, including in its Global Intellectual Property 
Academy (GIPA) programs and through the work of the IP Attaches.  
We encourage the USTR to include copyright infringement by virtue of LLM training in 
the Special 301 Review process and take appropriate action against countries that fail 
to adequately protect and enforce IP rights. 
Conclusion 
5 


Thank  you for considering  Credtent’s views  on how the Administration  can ensure 
continued  American  leadership  in both creative content production and AI technologies. 
We look forward  to working  with the Administration  and other  stakeholders  on these 
critical issues.   
Sincerely, 
Eric R Burgess 
Chief Executive Officer 
Credtent, Inc. 
6 


