This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential 
information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution.  Before the  
National Science Foundation and  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  
Washington, D.C.  
In the Matter of  
Request for Information on the  
Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI)  
Action Plan  ) 
) 
) 
) 
) Document ID 2025 -02305  
COMMENTS  OF CTIA  
March 15, 2025  
I.INTRODUCTION
CTIA1 appreciates the opportunity to provide input to the White House Office of Science
and Technology Policy (“OSTP”) on its Request for Information regarding the Development of 
an Artificial Intelligence (“AI”) Action Plan (“Action Plan”).2  CTIA applauds OSTP’s effort to 
develop an Action Plan that will sustain and enhance America’s AI leadership and promote 
America’s continued prosperity .3  CTIA likewise supports the government’s efforts to ensure 
that heavy -handed regulatory measures do not needlessly hamper private sector AI innovation.4 
1 CTIA – The Wireless Association® (“CTIA”) ( www.ctia.org ) represents the U.S. wireless communications 
industry and the companies throughout the mobile ecosystem that enable Americans to lead a 21st century 
connected life.  The association’s members include wireless providers, device manufacturers, suppliers as well as 
apps and content companies.  CTIA vigorously advocates at all levels of government for policies that foster 
continued wireless innovation and investment.  CTIA represents a broad diversity of stakeholders, and the specific 
positions outlined in these comments may not reflect the views of all individual members.  The association also 
coordinates the industry’s voluntary best practices, hosts educational events that promote the wireless industry and 
co-produces the industry’s leading wireless tradeshow.  CTIA was founded in 1984 and is based in Washington, 
D.C.
2 See Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan , Request for 
Information, 90 Fed. Reg. 9088 (rel. Feb. 6, 2025) (“OSTP RFI”); see also  Removing  Barriers to American 
Leadership in Artificial Intelligence , Executive Order, 90 Fed. Reg. 8741 (rel. Jan. 23, 2025).   
3 See OSTP RFI.  
4 See id. 


2 Artificial intelligence and next generation 5G networks are cornerstone technologies for 
digital transformation and innovation.  5G and AI are poised to become one of the most 
impactful partnerships in the history of technology —one that will revolutionize industries and 
redefine global power dynamics as countries race to build the foundation of the 21st century 
digital economy.  For the United States, maintaining its technological edge in both these 
technologies must be a strategic imperative.  As other countries have recognized, leading in AI 
increasingly requires the capabilities and infrastructure provided by next -generation 5G 
technologies, and leading in 5G increasingly requires AI -powered advancements in network 
efficiency and security.  The fates of these two technologies are intertwined.   
As we advance into an era defined by widespread availability of AI applications, our 
nation faces a critical challenge:  ensuring sufficient access to wireless spectrum for 5G to 
support the growing demands from AI applications.  Without adequate commercial spectrum 
allocation available to power the thousands of bandwidth -hungry AI applications, the United 
States risks losing its edge in the global race for AI leadership.  The first step toward AI 
leadership is identifying additional spectrum resources for 5G technologies.   
At the same time, the United States must also reduce hurdles that could slow the pace of 
AI innovation.  Maintaining U.S. leadership will require an AI framework centered on 
deregulation and the promotion of AI development.  As Vice President J.D. Vance explained at a 
global summit in Paris, the AI future “will be won by building.”5     
Administration leadership is more important than ever in driving AI and spectrum 
strategies that ensure the United States prevails in global technology competition.  Accordingly, 
5 See J.D. Vance, Vice President of the United States, Remarks by the Vice President at the Artificial Intelligence 
Action Summit, Paris, France, The American Presidency Project (Feb. 11, 2025), https://tinyurl.com/yc382rjb . 


3 CTIA offers  the following  recommendations as the Trump Administration pursues an AI Action 
Plan:   
•Ensure continued U.S. wireless leadership  by restoring the Federal Communications
Commission’s auction authority and replenishing the spectrum pipeline for commercial
5G technologies ;
•Establish a  uniform, national Action Plan and whole -of-government -approach  to AI
policy that avoids a patchwork of onerous and conflicting regulations at the federal and
state level, including through preemption;
•Promote a deregulatory approach and streamline existing frameworks;
•Endorse policies that preempt state AI laws; and
•As AI evolves  and to the extent needed , support policies  that embrace a voluntary,
flexible, and risk -based approach  to AI regulation , accounting for the wide range of AI
technologies and use cases.
With these policy principles at the forefront, the Action Plan will allow 5G and AI to flourish 
and their benefits to be realized by all.  
II.THE UNITED STATES SHOULD TAKE STEPS TO SECURE ITS GLOBAL AI
LEADERSHIP, WHICH IS CRITICAL TO PRESERVING AMERICA’S
ECONOMIC PROSPERITY.
Global U.S. leadership on AI is critical , and the AI Action Plan should prioritize this goal .  The 
Administration has recognized that breakthroughs in fields such as AI “have the potential to 
reshape the global balance of power, spark entirely new industries, and revolutionize the way we 
live and work.”6  The Administration recogniz es AI’s countless revolutionary applications have 
the potential to drive innovation, creates jobs , and ultimately support long -term U.S. economic 
prosperity.7  CTIA agrees that AI promises massive benefits, which the AI Action Plan should 
seek to encourage rather than stifle .  Among other applications, AI is already being used to: (1) 
6 President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology , The White House, (Jan. 23, 2025), 
https://tinyurl.com/mve5wwdz . 
7 See J.D. Vance, Vice President of the United States, Remarks by the Vice President at the Artificial Intelligence 
Action Summit, Paris, France, The American Presidency Project (Feb. 11, 2025),  https://tinyurl.com/yc382rjb . 


4 optimize network  performance and efficiency ,8 (2) improve network security by analyz ing and 
detect ing fraud,9 and (3) enhance customer service and customer experiences.10 
Our country’s ability to realize the transformative benefits of AI hinges on our wireless 
networks.  5G’s fast speeds, high bandwidth, and responsive networks are critical for enabling  
new technologies that will be important for the future economy, including AI.  5G can support 
AI systems ’ ability  to process and transfer vast amounts of data seamlessly in real time.  And, as 
discussed below, AI technologies have the potential to make our wireless networks even better.  
Given the transformative potential of AI  and its beneficial impacts on Americans and our 
economy , it is imperative that the United States lead globally  on both 5G and AI . 
III.THE WIRELESS INDUSTRY IS COMMITTED TO DEPLOYING AI FOR THE
BENEFIT OF CONSUMERS.
The U.S. 5G story so far is one of impressive investment, deployment, and usage that has
set the stage for leading in AI.  5G was deployed nearly twice as fast as 4G, with 5G networks 
today covering more than 330 million Americans.  The wide availability of 5G is the result of 
record -breaking private sector investment —more than $190 billion since 2018, the year 5G was 
launched, and more than $30 billion in 2023 alone.  As a result, the wireless industry is 
America’s second largest source of direct investment.  These wireless investments have 
supported millions of jobs, expansion of the U.S. GDP, and U.S. technological dominance on the 
global stage.   
8 See, e.g. , Sibel Aydogmus Bahadir & Frida Mattsson, What does my network do when I don’t look at it?, Ericsson 
(Sept. 22, 2022), https://tinyurl.com/md59jpvu ; Analytics  and AI -based automation, AT&T, 
https://tinyurl.com/bdf46efk  (last visited Mar. 14, 2025).  
9 See, e.g., Jeremy Nunn, How AI And Machine Learning Help Detect And Prevent Fraud, Forbes (Nov. 1, 2023), 
https://tinyurl.com/2rkhvh45 . 
10See, e.g. , Meet Emma, Our Virtual Assistant, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, 
https://tinyurl.com/5n73sjvu  (last visited Mar. 14, 2025); AI for Customer Service , IBM, 
https://tinyurl.com/5t4dw3u4  (last visited Mar. 14, 2025).  


5 Now, the wireless industry is a critical partner in ensuring the United States leads in AI as 
well.  Beyond the role of 5G networks in AI applications, t he wireless industry leverages AI in 
myriad ways  throughout the communications  ecosystem to bring new innovative capabilities —
and new protections —to consumers.   CTIA members use AI technologies to, for example:   (i) 
analyze vast quantities of network data, identify patterns, and predict outcomes to avoid network 
outages and optimize network operations; (ii) prevent fraud , robocalls , and robotexts ; (iii) 
provide virtual assistance with AI -based natural language processing, customer engagement 
tools, intelligent routing, interactive voice response, webforms, and bots; (iv) optimize product 
delivery; (v) optimize network deployments and operations; and (vi) strengthen cybersecurity.  
The wireless industry has countless examples of innovative uses of AI technologies that 
directly benefit consumers.  For example , the wireless industry leverages AI to : 
•Optimize  Network Management.  T-Mobile has invested in AI -radio access networks,
or “AI-RAN,” which “will dramatically improve customers’ real -world network
experiences and ever -growing demand for increased speeds, reduced latency, and
increased reliability.”11  The AI -RAN system uses extensive data to optimize network
adjustments and predic t real -time capacity needs, enhancing overall network performance
and user experience.12
•Enhance Customer Offerings.  Verizon has developed a  solution with NVIDIA that
enables a wide range of applications to run over Verizon’s 5G private network with
private Mobile Edge Compute, d elivering powerful, real -time AI services on premises for
enterprise customers.13
•Protect Against Fraudulent Robocalls and Robotexts.  Verizon uses AI technologies
to identify and prevent illegal robocalls from harming consumers.14
11 Press Release, T-Mobile Announces Technology Partnership with NVIDIA, Ericsson and Nokia to Advance the 
Future of Mobile Networking with AI at the  Center, T -Mobile (Sept. 18, 2024), https://tinyurl.com/3zkjnftd . 
12 See id.  
13 See Press Release, Verizon Collaborates with NVIDIA to Power AI Workloads on 5G Private Networks with  
Mobile Edge Compute , Verizon (Dec. 17, 2024), https://tinyurl.com/ynk5rwva . 
14 See generally Kate Kutchko, Verizon Business Group, Using Natural Language Processing to Label Robocalls 
(May 7, 2024), https://tinyurl.com/mpr9m9wb . 


6 •Improve Operational Efficiency.  AT&T’s generative AI (“GenAI”) assists human
workers in making decisions and taking actions, whether it’s optimizing its network and
code, clamping down on fraud, or helping customer care experts better serve customers.15
•Enable Telecommunications Industry Innovation s.  Intel is also driving adoption of
AI in 5G with its Xeon 6 system on a chip.  The system delivers up to 2.4 times the
capacity for RAN workloads with a 70 percent reduction in power consumption,
enhancing performance and lower ing the total ownership cost.16
The wireless industry is also doing its part to ensure American AI leadership through the
advancement of global standards.   CTIA’s members participate in organizations across the 
wireless ecosystem that lead global standardization processes and develop technical 
specifications to ensure that communications networks and products are built securely and work 
together seamlessly .  For example, members actively participate in the Alliance for 
Telecommunications Industry Solutions, which develops technical and operational standards for 
the information and communications technology industry.17  Members also participate in the  
Communications Security, Reliability, and Interoperability Council, which provides 
recommendations to the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”)  to promote the security, 
reliability, and resiliency of the nation’s communications systems .18 
Finally, t he wireless industry is an active participant in efforts to guard against the 
potential risks of AI technologies.   CTIA has worked with the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology (“ NIST ”) on previous AI standards matters and contributed extensively to the 
15 See Andy Markus, Autonomous Assistants: The Next Step of the GenAI Revolution to Empower Employees and 
Serve Customers , AT&T (July 17, 2024),  https://tinyurl.com/cpu4njbx . 
16 See Intel Xeon 6 Processors , Intel, https://tinyurl.com/44mff9mv  (last visited Mar. 14, 2025).  
17 See Our Members , ATIS, https://tinyurl.com/mr483wdz , (last visited Mar. 14, 2025 ). 
18 See, Communications Security, Reliability, and Interoperability Council , FCC,  https://tinyurl.com/4v2wttw7 , (last 
visited Mar. 14, 2025) . 


7 development of its AI Risk Management Framework (“AI RMF”) .19  CTIA  and its members  
appreciate the opportunity for continued collaboration on these important issues.  
IV.THE ACTION PLAN SHOULD PROMOTE INVESTMENT IN, AND
DEPLOYMENT AND ADOPTION OF, BENEFICIAL AI TECHNOLOGIES.
The Action Plan should prioritize actions that support innovation .  Specifically, the AI
Action Plan should incorporate the following principles :  (i) ensure continued U.S. wireless 
leadership  as necessary for AI leadership ;  (ii) establish a uniform, national Action Plan that is 
technology neutral ; (iii) promote a deregulatory approach  and streamline existing requirements ; 
(iv) establish federal AI policy that preempts state action; and (v) to the extent additional action
is needed , embrace a voluntary, flexible, and risk -based approach . 
A.Ensure U.S. Wireless Leadership
The challenge we face today as a nation is one of exponentially growing data demands.  
Americans used 100 trillion megabytes of data in 2023, nearly double the amount used two years 
ago and the largest single -year increase ever.  That demand is expected to triple by 2029 —and 
that is before accounting for the proliferation of new AI applications.  
Despite this unprecedented growth, today the United States has no additional spectrum 
bands in queue for commercial wireless use, particularly in key mid -band spectrum between 3.1 -
8.4 GHz, and the statutory authority for the FCC to issue spectrum licenses by auction has 
lapsed.  As a result, the United States is experiencing a deficit in full -power, licensed spectrum, 
particularly when compared to 5G allocations in other leading nations.  And here in the U.S., 
federal agencies hold 12 times more mid -band spectrum than wireless licensees; unlicensed and 
19 See, e.g. , Comments of CTIA, NIST AI Risk Management Framework Third Draft (Jan. 9, 2023); Comments of 
CTIA, NIST AI Risk Management Framework Second  Draft and Draft NIST AI Risk Management Framework 
Playbook (Sept. 29, 2022); Comments of CTIA, NIST AI Risk Management Framework Initial Draft, (Aril 29, 
2022); Comments of CTIA, NIST AI Risk Management Framework Concept Paper (Jan. 25, 2022); Comments of 
CTIA, NIST Artificial Intelligence Risk Management Framework Request for Information (Sept. 15, 2021).  


8 shared use comprises seven times more mid -band spectrum than is available for licensed use.  
The licensed spectrum shortfall is expected to expand absent swift action to restore FCC auction 
authority and make additional licensed airwaves available for commercial use.  According to the 
Brattle Group, the U.S. could face a spectrum deficit of 400 megahertz by 2027, and this deficit 
will have more than tripled to over 1,400 megahertz by 2032 .20         
AI will compound this challenge.  The unprecedented growth in artificial intelligence will 
place extraordinary additional demand on America’s wireless infrastructure.  A lack of sufficient 
spectrum to support this growth directly jeopardizes America’s ability to maintain its status as 
the global leader in AI innovation.  It means American companies will face significant hurdles in 
developing and deploying advanced AI applications without adequate bandwidth —potentially 
forcing key research, development, and deployment efforts overseas where spectrum resources 
are more readily available.     
The solution is identifying additional spectrum —mid-band spectrum, in particular —for 
5G and AI technologies.  OSTP should support  policies that would restore the FCC’s auction 
authority and ensure a pipeline of full -power, licensed mid-band spectrum for 5G and beyond .21  
As CTIA has noted, each additional 100 megahertz of mid -band spectrum licensed for 5G will 
add over $260 billion to GDP, create 1.5 million new jobs, and generate almost $390 billion in 
consumer surplus .22  It is critical to start that effort now, as the time it takes between 
 
20 See Coleman Bazelon and Paroma Sanyal, How Much Licensed Spectrum is Needed to Meet Future Demands for 
Network Capacity? , The Brattle Group, at 3 -4, 24 (Apr. 17, 2023) (“Brattle Group April 2023 Report”), 
https://www.ctia.org/news/how -much -licensed -spectrum -is-needed -to-meet -futuredemands -for-network -capacity . 
21 CTIA has encouraged  Congress  to continue to explore opportunities to make available spectrum in the lower 3 
GHz, 7/8 GHz, and 4 GHz bands for 5G wireless use.   
22 Press Release, More Licensed, Mid -band Spectrum  Will Supercharge Economic  Growth , CTIA, 
https://tinyurl.com/3j3fpx69  (Jan. 23, 2025).  


9 identification of suitable spectrum and deployment can impede  competition on a domestic and 
global basis.   
B.Establish a Uniform, National Action Plan
OSTP should promote a uniform, whole -of-government , and technology -neutral approach 
to AI.  In the absence of a unified framework, AI policies may be fragmented across agencies 
and among federal, state, and local governments.   A whole -of-government approach that 
recognizes existing federal tools and frameworks that can apply to  AI while protecting 
consumers  will avoid agencies claiming overlapping jurisdiction of an issue and implementing 
contradictory or duplicative polic ies that create significant confusion for consumers and 
businesses alike . 
The AI Action Plan should also pursue a technology -neutral approach to AI policy.  Laws 
and policies that can be applied uniformly can be more effective at addressing specific harms, 
regardless of the technology mechanism through which the harm may occur.  Technology -
neutral policies will best  allow innovation to flourish  unimpeded by burdensome regulation .  In 
contrast, technology -specific policies run the risk of failing to anticipate future technology 
changes , particularly in a rapidly changing landscape like AI,  and may sweep too broadly, create 
ambiguities, or inhibit innovation.  
For example, under the Biden Administration, the FCC proposed new robocall rules to 
address AI use, which only risked duplicating the FCC’s existing rules and efforts  and causing 
confusion for consumers and callers alike .23  CTIA support s the FCC’s February 2024 TCPA 
Declaratory Ruling , which clarified that existing Telephone Consumer Protection Act (“TCPA”) 
requirements addressing “artificial or prerecorded voice” encompass current AI technologies that 
23 See Implications of Artificial Intelligence Technologies on Protecting Consumers from Unwanted Robocalls and 
Robotexts , CG Docket No. 23 -362, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking and Notice of Inquiry, FCC 24 -84 (rel. Aug. 8, 
2024)  (“Robocall NPRM ”). 


10 generate human voices.24  The TCPA Declaratory Ruling  established clear guidance on the use 
of AI in illegal calls , and this  has already helped the FCC and industry protect consumers from 
bad actors.   By contrast, the FCC’s proposed AI-related  robocall rules , which would expand the 
scope of the TCPA to “AI-generated calls” and subject those calls to specific pre - and on -call 
disclosure requirements,  are overbroad and unnecessary.25  At best, this proposal would duplicate 
the progress already made in the TCPA Declaratory Ruling  to define, among other things, “AI -
generated calls .”  At worst, it risks causing significant and chilling innovative uses of AI that 
would benefit callers and consumers.   This example highlights how a patchwork approach to AI 
policy  can be inefficient and introduce confusion.  A fragmented approach could hinder  
innovation and impede U.S. AI competition and leadership globally —when  promoting such 
goals should be a focus of federal AI policy.26 
C.Promote a Deregulatory Approach  and Streamline Existing Requirements
In developing the Action Plan, OSTP should  promote a deregulatory approach.  An 
overly regulatory approach creates unnecessary barriers to innovation without corresponding 
consumer benefits.  Broader legal and regulatory protections apply across technologies, and 
stifling AI with unnecessary regulation would undermine the Administration’s agenda to ensure 
America’s global AI leadership.  
The Action Plan should  account for, rather than duplicate, existing federal legal and 
regulatory frameworks that are already able to address AI -related concerns.   As a starting point, 
OSTP should survey existing laws and regulations that may encompass AI and identify 
24 Implications of Artificial Intelligence Technologies on Protecting Consumers from Unwanted Robocalls and 
Robotexts , Declaratory Ruling, 39 FCC Rcd. 1783 (2024)  (“TCPA Declaratory Ruling ”). 
25 See Robocall NPRM  ¶¶ 10, 14-15. 
26 See Comments of CTIA, Request for Information; National Priorities for Artificial Intelligence, Docket ID: 
OSTP -TECH -2023 -0007, at 2 (July 7, 2023), https://tinyurl.com/adwd5mce . 


11 duplicative requirements that can be streamlined or eliminated.   The existence of these laws 
makes burdensome AI -specific regulation unnecessary.  
In many cases, industry and government have already, and will continue to, successfully 
collaborate on AI issues.  The Action Plan should promote and leverage these types of activities.  
If OSTP pursues any policies as part of the Action Plan, it should look to the NIST AI RMF, 
which was developed at the direction of Congress with robust stakeholder involvement, 
including from CTIA, and thoughtfully outlines a voluntary, flexible, and risk -based approach to 
deploying AI in a responsible manner.  In fact, NIST’s risk -based, with stakeholder input, 
approach to AI continues today with its request for comment on the Cyber security and  AI 
Workshop  Concept Paper on which CTIA is also actively engaging.27 
D.Establish Federal AI Policy That Preempts State Action
OSTP should work with Congress to establish federal AI policy  that expressly preempts 
state AI laws.   Innovation will be stymied by the growing patchwork of overlapping, and 
potentially conflicting, AI policy approaches at the federal level from one sector to another, as 
well as from state to state .  A patchwork of laws and policies increases complexity and 
compliance costs, which discourages pro -consumer innovation and hinders the development and 
deployment of new AI tools and use cases.  
Fragmentation has direct negative impacts on consumers:   it creates uneven expectations 
and regulations —often based on arbitrary geographic or service offering distinctions —that cause 
consumer confusion.  We have seen these negative impacts play out in other contexts such as 
privacy  law.  In the absence of a federal privacy regime, state governments have increasingly 
27 See Cybersecurity and AI Workshop Concept Paper , National Institute of Standards and Technology (Feb. 14, 
2025), https://tinyurl.com/yc7erabk . 


12 regulated on this topic,28 leading to consumer confusion and adverse economic consequences by 
straining resources and unnecessarily burdening the private sector.   This patchwork approach  is 
already happening with AI policy.  States are already adopting comprehensive AI laws and there 
is a groundswell of coming legislation.29  In California alone, for example, Governor Gavin 
Newso m signed 17 bills in 30 days covering the deployment and regulation of GenAI 
technology.30 
To avoid this issue  and its numerous negative impacts , OSTP should work with Congress 
to develop federal solutions that preserve a federal framework.  That framework should expressly 
preempt state laws to minimize the risk of overlapping or conflicting obligations.   Additionally, 
any federal AI policies  should avoid including AI -specific privacy and data security 
requirements.   As mentioned above, there is a demonstrated need for comprehensive federal 
privacy legislation  rather than state -by-state approaches .  Congress should enact a 
comprehensive risk -based national privacy and data security framework based upon the type of 
information collected, used, or shared, not the type of entity engaged in such collection, use or 
sharing.   Imposing AI -specific privacy requirements would only complicate the already intricate 
web of existing privacy obligations  and impede American innovation, to the detriment of 
consumers and our economy . 
28 See, e.g. , California Consumer Privacy Act, as amended, Cal. Civ. Code § 1798.100 et seq . 
29 See, e.g. , Colorado AI Act, as amended, C.R.S. § 6-1-1701 et seq . 
30 See Press Release, Governor Newson Announces New Initiative to Advance Safe and Responsible AI, Protect 
Californians , Governor Gavin Newsom (Sept. 29, 2024), https://tinyurl.com/y6r7tsr7 .  Among other California bills 
concerning GenAI technology:  AB 1008 clarifies that personal information under the California Consumer Privacy 
Act can exist in various formats, including information stored by AI systems; AB 2013 requires AI developers to 
post information on the data used to train the AI system or service on their websites; and SB 942 requires developers 
of covered GenAI systems to include provenance disclosures in the original content their systems produce and make 
tools available to identify GenAI content produced by their systems.  Id. 


13 E.To the Extent Additional Action is Needed , OSTP Should Embrace  a
Voluntary, Flexible, and Risk -Based Approach
As noted above, many existing frameworks can already protect against AI risks.  As 
OSTP develops a national action plan, it should take account of existing approaches to avoid 
unnecessary regulation.  As  AI evolves, and if action may be needed, OSTP  should embrace a  
voluntary, flexible, and risk -based approach  drawn from  stakeholder input .  OSTP should ensure 
any policies or standards that are adopted are flexible and not  impose  a one -size-fits-all 
approach.   Flexibility is a well -established principle that has been at the heart of successful 
approaches for promoting emerging technologies for decades.  Indeed, several existing 
frameworks already help organizations protect against potential AI risks and incorporate the 
principles of flexibility.31  These frameworks are b uilding in sufficient flexibility to allow 
technology to progress rapidly without saddling innovators with unnecessary red tape.   
Flexibility also makes policies on AI development and use more future -proof and adaptable to 
ever-changing technological developments (and emerging threats).  
Flexibility is preferable to rigid , top-down government controls that will only slow 
innovation , and risks locking organizations into processes that quickly become ineffective and 
outdated .  Additionally, rigid requirements may encourage some to adopt  a “compliance 
mindset,” taking  steps simply to “check the box”  rather than devoting resources to meaningful 
efforts.   Organizations might be forced to waste time on paperwork , rather than innovating.   AI 
innovation is underway and  may encompass a vast universe of technologies and use cases, 
making flexibility crucial for ensuring continued progress.  
31 See Risk Management , National Institute of Standards and Technology, https://tinyurl.com/mtu2cjnb  (last visited 
Mar. 14, 2025).   


14 As mentioned, existing frameworks protect against AI risks.  OSTP should leverage these 
existing, useful resources, and continue to partner with industry on addressing these issues.  For 
example, NIST’s AI RMF and Cybersecurity Framework (“CSF”) are widely accepted federal 
frameworks for managing cybersecurity risks targeting AI systems.  The Department of Energy’s 
AI Intelligence and Technology Offic e has also developed an AI Risk Management Playbook.  
And t he FCC has clarified that  the TCPA applies to  calls using AI -generated voices .32 
A risk-based approach is highly suitable for emerging technologies that can be used in 
myriad ways, such as AI.  AI technologies present varying levels of risk, and companies should 
be able to take this into account when tailoring their risk management strategies.  An approach 
that imposes requirements only when necessary in high -risk situations —rather than trying to 
address AI as a monolithic technology or treating all applications of AI the same —will allow 
organizations to leverage the benefits of AI without undue barriers, while effectively addressing 
identified risks.  
A flexible, risk-based framework properly reflect s that not all actions to manage risks 
will apply to all AI actors, and responsibilities may shift as roles in the AI value chain evolve.  
Responsibility for managing risk across the AI value chain should be share d.  But shared 
responsibility does not mean that each stakeholder will play an identical role in ensuring the safe 
and responsible use of AI.  The Action Plan should properly delineate the responsibilities of 
stakeholder s in the AI value chain in a way that aligns with their roles , as stakeholders may be 
best positioned to manage different types of risk . 
For example, to the extent that deployers’ and developers’ roles are defined, any policies 
should specify that a deployer should only be considered a developer if it is changing the model 
32 See TCPA Declaratory Ruling . 


15 in a transformative and extensive way.  Merely tailoring or fine -tuning the model to meet the 
deployer’s business needs or conducting testing should not transform a deployer into a 
developer.    
OSTP should also promote industry -led standards activities, which tend to be open and 
transparent and can lead to greater security and resilience for AI systems.   Promoting broad 
engagement from stakeholders , at every stage of the standards development process,  will help 
ensure that varying viewpoints based on real -world experience feed into the standards process.  
Standards development driven by the private sector will help ensure robust participation and 
foster U.S. technological leadership for the next decade and beyond.  And involving industry will 
also make it more likely that the standards will be broadly adopted.  This approach was 
successfully used for development of AI standards , as NIST e xamples illustrate, and this 
approach should be replicated going forward.  
V.CONCLUSION.
CTIA supports OSTP’s efforts  to develop an AI Action Plan.  As OSTP finalizes the
Action Plan, it should establish policy actions that advance innovation and American leadership 
in both next generation  5G and AI.  To do so, OSTP should identify additional spectrum 
resources for 5G technologies that provide the capabilities and infrastructure needed to lead in AI 
and streamline existing frameworks and minimize regulatory constraints t hat would operate 
counter to these goals.   These steps can drive a uniform, national Action Plan that ensures 
continued American leadership by promoting 5G and AI technologies.  CTIA looks forward to 
engaging with OSTP as it further develops the Action Plan.  


