Request for Information on the Development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan  
Submi tted by: José -Marie Griﬃths, President, Dakota State University  
and member of the National Security Commission on Artiﬁcial Intelligence  
About Da kota State University  
Dakota State University  (DSU) is a STEM -focused institution emerging as a leader in  
cyber , with vast e xperience  in AI education and workforce development. Our faculty, 
staﬀ, and students are advancing the development, application and research boundaries 
of AI and other emerging technologies.  DSU is pleased to contribute and participate in 
these eﬀorts with our academic excellence, research work, and workforce development 
programs.  
Dakota State  Education Eﬀorts with AI  
At Dakota State, we work with  AI on many fronts.  
•Developing AI (The Beacom College of Computer and Cyber Sciences)
•Applying AI (The College of Business & Information Systems)
•Using AI ( university -wide )
Recommendati ons for the AI Action Plan  
•AI Risk -Base d Regulation : The federal government should continue to legislate on AI
related issues, in particular risks associated with AI. This approach would involvecategorizing AI systems according to the potential risks or threats they pose, with higherlevels of scrutiny for those systems that have the most signiﬁcant societal impact, suchas autonomous vehicles or AI in healthcare. A  tiered regulation system would allow
Congress to balance the need for oversight with the goal of not stiﬂing technologicalprogress. Therefore, encouraging responsible AI development and pleasing both sides of
the AI regulation debate.
•Public -Private Partnerships : The federal government  must  encourage public -private
partnerships to foster collaboration between government agencies, private companies,
and research institutions such as higher education. These groups  can share expertise,
resources, and data to develop policies that promote ethical and safe AI innovation.Public -private partnerships  would  provide a framework for establishing industry
standards and guidelines that promote transparency, fairness, and accountability,ensuring AI technologies beneﬁt society as a whole.
•Rural Networks : Public -private partnerships s hould include rural networks, wh ich could
leverage collaborations for AI research and development as well as adoption . This would
limit the potential for a digital divide in rural areas , such as the Northern Plains. An
example is our partnership with a ﬁve-state consortium , to leverage generative AI to
enhance research, education, and economic development in Idaho, Montana, North


Dakota, South Dakota, and Wyoming. This group will help with geographical and socio -
economic disparities from the emergence of generative AI technologies, and ensure 
aﬀordable, accessible, trustworthy AI at speed and scale in the rural states.  
•Developer’s  Transparency and Accountability : To build public trust and ensure
responsible AI development, the federal government  should pass legislation that
mandates transparency and accountability from companies, organizations, orinstitutions  developing AI technologies. This would require companies to disclose key
aspects of their AI models, certain data sources, decision -making processes, and
potential biases. Accountability mechanisms must be  put in place to hold companies
responsible for the outcomes of their AI systems, ensuring that they are liable for harm
caused by faulty or biased algorithms and are incentivized to prioritize ethical practices.
•Data Privacy/Data Protection in AI : Given the vast amounts of data relied on by AI
systems , Congress must enact strong data privacy and protection laws that speciﬁcally
address the use of data in AI. This includes ensuring that individual personal data issafeguarded against misuse and that AI developers comply with strict guidelines on datacollection, consent, storage, and usage.
•Higher Education Investments in AI Education and Training : The federal government
must prioritize investments in AI education and training programs to prepare the
workforce of tomorrow for the future of AI. This includes funding for higher educationinstitutions to develop specialized AI curriculum, as well as providing retrainingopportuniti es for individuals whose jobs are at risk of automation. It could also include
expanded funding for scholarship for service programs such as CyberCorps ®. By investing
in education, Congress will ensure the U.S. remains competitive in the global AI
landscape and that workers are equipped with the skills needed to thrive in an AI driveneconomy.
•K-12 Education Investments: Educational inv estments should not only take place with
higher education, but al so at the K -12 level . Helping students explore technology at a
young age means they can more fully access skills and opportunities needed  for
economic success in their adult years. An example of this is our dual- credit program, the
Governors Cyber Academy , which provides high school juniors and seniors with a
jumpstart in high -demand cyber career occupations.
•Legal Immigration Eﬀorts: Because domestic talent will be insuﬃcient on its own to ﬁll
the workforce gaps needed in technology ﬁelds, attention should be given to eﬀorts suchas the NSCAI’s recommendation to remove caps on green cards for exceptional talent.Also, non-citizen graduates with cyber degrees from  accredited universities should
receive faster access to green cards.
•The Power of AI Research Implementation : Research and Development in Artiﬁcial
Intelligence should be structured to ensure that innovation will not be isolated, but
implemented in consider ation with the concepts of cybersecurity and quantum
computing . This concept is best visualized with Dakota State’s Power Cyber
SM graphic .


DSU’s Lead ing Degree Programs  
The university oﬀers 46 degrees  in computer and cyber sciences, business and information 
systems, education and human performance and arts & sciences, including eight master’s and 
four doctoral degrees. More degrees involving emerging technologies are in the planning stages . 
Current AI and quantum degrees i nclude:  
•Artiﬁcial Intelligence (MS)
•Analytics and Applied Artiﬁcial Intelligence (MS)
•Computer Science specialization in AI (MS)
•Artiﬁcial Intelligence (BS)
•AI in Organizations (BS)
•AI and Machine Learning minor
•Quantum computing for cybersecurity  graduate certiﬁcate
•Quantum computing for cybersecurity  minor
AI Resea rch 
Through Dakota State University’s Madison Cyber Labs, the university is actively conducting  
applied research in numerous area s, from adaptive technology to AI and Quantum research.  
We also have the Dakota State Applied Research Lab  (DSU -ARL), which contracts  with 
companies and agencies to work on highly technical projects including software development, malware analysis, digital forensics, cybersecurity, workforce development, and penetration 


testing. Dakota State University’s Applied Research Corporation (DARC) has been established as 
a non -proﬁt corporation to develop, operate, and expand the DSU -ARL. One ARL building is 
currently operational in Madison, S.D.; a second building is under construction in Sioux Falls, 
S.D.
We have  numerous established p artnerships  with businesses and organizations, from 
international collaborations with AI Sweden  and the Edge Learning Consortium  and Griﬃth 
University (Australia), international corporations such as Case New Hollan d and Google, along 
with  many national defense contractor s, as well as  with state agencies and regional companies. 
We are a lso on the cutting -edge of emerging technologies, having established the Center for 
Quantum Information Science and Technology (C- QIST), a partnership between Dakota State 
and the South Dakota School of Mines.  
Research  Projects: 
•AI in K -12 Education:
oDeb Tech, Brenda Merkel, and David De Jong  led professional development for
SD’s K -12 business educators on December 4th , presenting on disruptive
technologies, business careers, and AI integration in classrooms . Sponsored by
DSU and the South Dakota Department of Education.
oAt the 2024 Rosebud Sioux Tribe Professionals Conference  (December 20 -22),
DSU faculty presented:
"How AI Can Help You in Your Work"  – Brenda Merkel and David Zeng
demonstrated how AI enhances productivity and eﬃciency.
"How to Learn About AI"  – Fenecia Homan, Austin O’Brien, and David
De Jong  introduced attendees to AI tools , helping many use AI for the
ﬁrst time .
oMark Spanier and Fenecia Homan  led three professional development sessions
for West Central School District educators  on January 20, covering:
Governor’s Cyber Academy opportunities
Foundational AI concepts
Classroom integration of AI tools
•AI Policy and Standards :
oOmar El -Gayar  serves on the ABET -CAC Criteria Committee , co-chairing
subcommittees focused on developing AI/ML program criteria  and integrating AI
into accreditation standards.
•AI in Cybersecurity and Industry Collaboration:
oShawn Zwach, Kyle Cronin, and Fenecia Homan  presented “Spurring Awareness
and Access Through Cyber Enrichment Programming”  at the 2024 NICE K12
Cybersecurity Education Conference  in San Antonio, Texas.
AI Sweden Partnership & Paulson Center Expansion  
•AI Sweden Industrial Immersion & Exchange Program


oNow a key initiative under the Paulson Center for Cyber and Economic
Development , the AI Sweden partnership has expanded into a year -round
program  for AI and cybersecurity students.
oIn 2024, 23 students (12 from DSU, 11 from Swedish universities)  worked on
real-world AI & cybersecurity challenges  from Volvo, Hewlett Packard
Enterprise, Swedish Defence University, Case New Holland, and others .
oThe 10-week program  is split between AI Sweden’s Edge Learning Lab in
Gothenburg, Sweden, and DSU’s MadLabs in Madison, SD .
oExample projects include :
Poisoning Attacks on Federated Learning for Autonomous Driving  (Volvo,
Zenseact)
Intrusion Detection System for CAN Bus Networks  (Case New Holland)
Development of AI -powered Honeypots for Cybersecurity  (Volvo, Västra
Götalandsregionen)
Transformer -Based Anomaly Detection for Maritime Security  (Swedish
Defence University, Swedish Navy)
oMore details on AI Sweden & DSU’s research collaboration :
2024 Projects
2023 Projects
oDr. Mark Spanier and Jared Soundy  were identiﬁed as DSU’s AI integration
leaders , working on further expanding AI initiatives at DSU.
Enhancing Student Success  
•AI for Teacher Apprentices :
oDavid De Jong  trained Little Wound teacher apprentices and school leaders  on
using ChatGPT, MagicSchoolAI, and NotebookLM  in the classroom.
•AI Research and Publications :
oDSU faculty and students published several AI-related research papers ,
including:
"The Inﬂuence of Organizational Culture on AI Adoption andOrganizational Performance"  – Mutale W. & Omar El -Gayar  (Decision
Sciences Institute Annual Conference)
"A Review of Reasoning in Artiﬁcial Agents Using Large LanguageModels"  – Naidu, N. & El- Gayar, O.  (HICSS)
"Human Cognitive Bias Mitigation Approaches to Fairness in theMachine Learning Value Chain"  – Surles, S., Noteboom, C., & El -Gayar,
O.(HICSS)
Advancing  AI Research and Thought Leadership  
•NSF & AI Research Contributions :
oOmar El -Gayar  was invited as a reviewer and panelist for two NSF programs ,
evaluating AI research proposals.


oDSU’s ﬁrst NSF I -Corps cohort  launched, focusing on AI-driven entrepreneurship
training  in collaboration with SD Mines. Mike Roach and Andy Behrens  are
leading the program.
oAndy Behrens  serves as PI on a funded project with Hetherington Group (HG) ,
developing an eight -week beginner -level data analytics course  using AI tools.
•Cybersecurity & AI:
oAt the IEEE Annual Computing and Communication Workshop and Conference ,
DSU faculty and students won Best Paper in Security, Trust, and Privacy  for work
on Quantum Security , presented by Ashay Kappala.
•Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Medical Ethics
oPete Hoesing  is contributing to an AI Ethics working group among the USD
Sanford School of Medicine’s Ethics and Humanities Faculty
AI Wor kforce Development  
Dakota State was a pilot site for the initial GenCyber  Camps in 2013. We currently host camps 
for teachers, middle school girls, high school co -ed, and are starting a camp in 2025  for middle 
school boys. The high school and girls camps are the largest residential sites in the nation for 
this program.  This program is designed to inspire the next generation of the cyber workforce 
through hands -on exploration of technology concepts including digital forensics, cryptography, 
privacy, cyber awareness, and coding.  
With support from the State of South Dakota, w e have created the Governors Cyber Academy . 
This dual -credit program is designed to expand workforce  development awareness by providing 
access  to cyber education and career pathways for high school  students throughout the state of 
South Dakota and beyond.   
DSU -SOAR is a non -proﬁt 501(c)(3) organization aﬃliated with Dakota State University, created 
to provide relevant workforce training needs for individuals, corporations, and government 
agencies.  
we DSU works  with AI, Cybersecurity, data privacy in:  
1)National security, Intelligence,  and defense
2) Critical infrastructure, such as healthcare and agriculture.
This doc ument is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or conﬁdential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
Submitted by:  
José -Marie Griﬃths, President  
Dakota State University  
820 N Washington Ave  
Madison, SD 57042  


