 
   3/10/2025 via FDMS  
Daniel Marcoux  
Responsible investment in AI does not mean investing in more hardware. Geoffrey Hinton won 
the Nobel Prize this year for his work on a type of neural network that runs in parallel (meaning 
doesn't need giant cpus) called a restricted boltzman machine, and DeepSeak proved that 
software innovation can improve deep learning. LLM's are largely a middleman to the internet. 
Microsoft sees this, and decided all developers should use GPT for API calls, and all users 
should use GPT for internet searches. There is no  deeper capability. Where there IS promise: 
Deterrence: Bolster electrical grids and utilities with smart systems. The more resilient our 
infrastructure, the more incurred cost on our enemies. Research: Use neural networks to explore 
the latent space of SP ECIFIC problems. Especially important are meta -materials, manufacturing 
processes, stockpile maintenance and testing, cybersecurity and communications, new drugs and 
vaccines, and immunology, farming and genomics etc. What is NOT helpful is AGI. There exis t 
known paradoxes in language problems such as Godel's incompleteness theorem and P=NP that 
make AGI capabilities plateau after general intellect if trained on general data. They by nature 
cannot become generally superintelligent. Superintelligence can onl y be achieved in arenas 
where there are verifiable problems like specific science and mathematics. Additionally AI 
agents are largely vaporware. They do the same thing as chatbots and people hate chatbots. 
Replacing any government HR, accounting, etc. with  AI is a terrible idea as well, the security 
concern alone is enough to take issue. Donald Trump is an expert in seeing real value. He plays 
the business game well, but in the end his success came from knowing physical property is the 
asset everyone needs.  Please consider investing in our Infrastructure! If we buried electrical 
lines, secured high voltage transformers, invested in roads bridges... all these things create jobs 
for normal people and serve to improve our resiliency! AI is truly amazing, but to o long has the 
tech elite used it for greedy purposes and exploitation. The USA could reinvent itself as the 
premier researchers at the high skill tier, the premier implementers through manufacturing and 
infrastructure, and lift our struggling middle and l ower classes.  
 


