Comments in Response to:  
Development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Dan Stanzione, Associate VP for Research, The University of Texas at  Austin 
Since 2021, t he investment in AI infrastructure from the private sector is unrivaled by any other 
technological investment in history.  In the current year alone, investment from the f ive largest companies 
in datacenters and servers for AI totals more than $300  Billion USD, with total worldwide investment 
substantially higher.   Cumulative investment is well over a trillion dollars and rising quickly, and this 
does not include the massive investments in human capital associated with this infrast ructure.  
In this environment, it seems difficult for  a federal investment to  “move the needle ” on AI for the largest 
corporations , beyond insuring the suppl y chain from impacts by other state actors , and providing 
sufficient safeguards for the public in the use of AI .    However, there are many gaps in th e current 
environment that are crucial to US economic development and US national security that could be 
addressed by a federal investment in AI infrastructure.    
With state -of-the-art models for Generative AI limited to only a few of the very largest players, the 
following gaps clearly exist:   
•The need to develop a b road pipelin e to provide the future AI work force, and AI -enabled
workforce,  to supply the needs of the Am erican economy.
•The need to democrati ze access to AI infrastructure , not only to develop the work force but to
spur innovation and research across small and medium enterprises, across academia, and broadly
across government.
•The need to develop tr usted and open models that can be deployed ef fectively by the public , and
by the public sector, to make sure the benefits of AI are available for a broad cross section of
societal needs, and not simply for the most profitable ones.
To meet th ese needs,  a three pronged government approach investing in AI infrastructure, AI education 
and training, and AI research and innovation  is needed.    
The infrastructure needs and a plan of action is well -documented, with many exce llent ideas codified in 
the reports on NAIRR (the National AI Research Resource) and in the proposed Department of Energy 
FAST initiat ive.   The government should invest in a shared national cyberinfrastructure: a broadly 
accessible and  federated collection of resources critical for AI research, including computational 
resources,  public- and private -sector data, software, and testbeds.   This resource would be intended to 
serve U.S. -based AI researchers , students, and entrepreneurs who are pursuing foundational, use -inspired, 
and translational AI research.  The components of this infrastructure  would incl ude:  
•Compute: provide access to the diversity of computing resources that  fuel AI R&D. The
infrastructure would ideally consist of a federated mix of on -premise and commercial
computational resources, including conventional servers, computing clusters, high -performance
computing, and cloud computing, and also support access to edge  computing resources.
•Data sets: The infrastructure  would either fund the creation of and/or provide continuing  support
to existing AI data repositories. Data from these providers would be easily  found and accessed


through a central catalog  and be "ready to ingest" by virtue of  interoperability standards for such 
data repositories set by the infrastructure providers . The infrastructure should include  a “data 
marketplace” where data  resources could be contributed by users or stakeholders. Contributions 
would be subject to  dataset acceptance  criteria for quality.  
•Testbeds: The infrastructure  would act as a hub for AI testbeds and test datasets, cataloging  and
providing access to existing testing and benchmarking resources that can accelerate  progress in
AI capabilities and increase research community access to high -quality testbeds.
•User training and services: Software, training, and educational resources would be
made available to support a diverse set of users with varying levels of proficiency . The
infrastructure would provide multiple levels of user support  including help desk and solution
consulting, and cultivate communities of practice to  provide peer- to-peer support.
To maximize the use of this in frastructure, substantial  corresponding  investment s should also be made  in 
education and research programs. The education program should span  the University, community 
college, and K -12 levels to both develop curriculum and prepare a workforce of both creators and 
consumers of AI tools and models.    
The research program should be similarly broad.   A program is needed that supports fundamental 
research in AI – development of new tools, models, hardware, and approaches for the foundations of AI, 
for ways to make AI transparent and tr ustworthy, and ways to insure security and privacy with AI.  There 
should also be support for use -inspired research in tra nslational AI, to apply the best tools and practices of 
AI across novel applications, both for commer cial purposes, and in areas of interest to society and the 
public sector, such as creating more efficient government, application to science and knowledge advancement, national security, etc.    
The potential impacts of AI – economically, scientifically, and societally – are well-documented.   The US 
private sector has made enormous investments in the economic opportunities presented.  The geopolitical 
rivals of the US have made clear, focused in vestments in AI , in the techn ologies supporting AI (e.g. 
semiconductors, computer architectures, etc.) , and in the applications of AI.    It is critical that the US 
government represent not only the opportunities in AI, but the risk s and costs of being outcompeted by 
rival states to develop and use this technology.  A well-balanced public investment that complements the 
work of the private sector in this area can help ensure a prosperous and secure future for the United 
States.  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or conﬁdential information. Document contents may reused by the government 
in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  


