From: D. Arrow Allen
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 11:55:43 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
I'm a U.S. citizen whose profession is in the art and game development industries. I have grave
concerns that removing the "guardrails" or so-called "burdens" on AI development would onlyserve to enrich the people who own companies like OpenAI, while destroying entire sectors ofindustry in this country.
Making an exemption to copyright law, for example, for a private corporation, so that they can
steal the intellectual property of and replace the jobs of millions of hard-working tax-payingAmericans is absurd.
OpenAI isn't curing cancer. Other companies are working on very different technology that's
making progress on that front, and they're not training their data on every book, website, andmovie frame ever made. If they want some kind of exemption for a medical AI that will helpAmericans? Give it to them with the condition that what it produces cannot be used for profit.
Large language models are not defending the U.S. from external threats. They say that they'll
be able do all of that and more when they make a perfect "AGI", as soon as they have enoughmoney and resources. Yet all we have from them and similar companies are chatbots that willconfidently feed us hallucinations and wrong information, and can generate mountains ofshiny but flawed visual art. Even the semi-functional models that can produce workable codeare becoming a crutch for programmers, ultimately resulting in the loss of skill andcomprehension. LLM AI use in schools are doing the same to students. Universally adoptingand relying on these technologies will make us weaker, not stronger.
If our government gives huge AI companies free rein, and countless passes and second-
chances to perfect a flawed, inconsistent, and untrustworthy series of products, all while usingtheir technology for personal profit at the expensive of actual workers in this country, what arewe accomplishing?
That would be worse than the biggest bailout in history, and would be selling out the citizens
of this country. I am firmly against it.
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


