From: David Martinez
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Monday, March 17, 2025 9:19:19 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Hello! I am writing in with my public comment on the AI Action Plan.
As a person that works in print, marketing, and graphic design, I can tell you that the
widespread immunity from copyright infringement that would be afforded by the AIAP wouldbe absolutely disastrous. As it stands, AI-generated images have become a plague upon theindustry - their low-quality resolution as well as nonsensical and sometimes aberrant contenthas proven to be difficult to work with, on a technical level. AI generated content frequentlyfails to follow the standard procedures necessary to insure ease of printing, and thus wastesthousands of dollars of time to reformat.
While I work in print and design, I nevertheless know a number of people who make their
living as illustrators. AI generated imaging is currently diluting the market with a flood ofextremely low-quality visuals, taking jobs from millions of Americans. People WANT to work- they WANT to show their mastery of craft. AI not only HARMS the job market of a wholegroup of professionals, but outputs atrocious 'content' which only serves to diminish our visuallexicon. I would almost describe them as Chinese knockoffs.
AI imaging also serves as an overall societal hazard. It gives anyone, including malign foreignactors, the power to generate 'fake news'. Anyone could wholesale fabricate fake images ofimportant political figures doing things they have not done, meeting with people theydisapprove of, or saying things they have not.
In closing, I would implore you to not only reconsider the AI Action Plan, but to actually
institute MORE restrictions on AI-generated material. I would also like to thank you for yourtime reading my comments, and hope you have a good day!
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


