March 15, 2025 
Attn: Faisal D’Souza, NCO  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Via email: 
Subject: DCC Comments on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
To Whom It May Concern:  
The Data Center Coalition (DCC) appreciates the opportunity to provide comments in response 
to the Request for Information (RFI) on the AI Action Plan issued by the Networking and 
Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordinatio n Office 
(NCO), National Science Foundation (NSF) on behalf of the White House Office of Science and 
Technology Policy (OSTP) on February 6, 2025. DCC is the membership association for the 
U.S. data center industry, representing leading data center owners and operators, as well as 
companies that lease large amounts of data center capacity.1 DCC’s member companies provide 
the digital infrastructure that supports the applications, capabilities, and essential services that 
enable the modern economy, including cloud computing and artificial intelligence (AI). DCC 
member companies are making significant, multi -billion dollar investments in U.S. data center 
infrastructure. DCC empowers and champions the data center community through public policy 
advocacy, thought  leadership, stakeholder outreach, and community engagement. The comments 
we are providing focus on the need to unleash the infrastructure and workforce necessary to 
power, supply, and operate the nation’s data centers.2 
I.Background
There is unprecedented  demand for the digital services that have become central to our daily 
lives and modern economy. With an average of 21 connected devices per household in the U.S.,3 
the essential role of data centers is expected to grow as consumers and businesses generate  twice 
1 The Data Center Coalition’s website address is www.datacentercoalition.org . Public testimony and written 
comments submitted by DCC do not necessarily reflect the views of each individual DCC member.  
2 This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Docu ment contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan 
and associated documents without attribution.  
3 Deloitte, “ Connect consumer survey 2023 ,” (September 2023).  


as much data in the next five years as they did in the past decade.4 This growth is driven by the 
widespread adoption of cloud services, the proliferation of connected devices, and the rapid 
scaling of advanced technologies like generative AI, which  alone could create between $2.6 
trillion and $4.4 trillion in economic value globally by 2030.5 
The data center industry’s total contribution to U.S. GDP was $3.5 trillion between 2017 and 
2023.6 Notably, the industry’s growth has surpassed that of the o verall U.S. economy in recent 
years. From 2017 to 2023, direct employment in the U.S. data center industry expanded by over 
50 percent, compared to 10 percent growth in employment for the United States overall during 
the same timeframe.7  
Data centers als o enable critical and emerging technologies that safeguard national security and 
underpin America’s global competitiveness. Leadership in developing and operating AI in the 
United States is vital for protecting national security and ensuring that AI system s are safe, 
secure, and trustworthy. As Vice President JD Vance has noted, “[T]his administration will 
ensure that American AI technology continues to be the gold standard worldwide and we are the 
partner of choice for others —foreign countries and certainl y businesses —as they expand their 
own use of AI.”8  
Data centers are the backbone of AI and the digital economy, driving innovation and growth 
across various sectors. DCC members, including developers and operators of hyperscale, self -
perform/enterprise, build-to-suit, multi -tenant/colocation, and edge data centers, are at the 
forefront of this transformation. While common considerations such as access to land, power, 
equipment, and a skilled workforce are crucial, there is no one -size-fits-all solution. B y 
proactively removing barriers to deployment, the federal government can play a pivotal role in 
supporting this critical sector, fostering economic growth, and maintaining our competitive edge 
against foreign adversaries.  
II.Policy Recommendations
DCC than ks the Trump administration for its support of the American AI industry with the 
Executive Order “Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence” (AI EO) 
on January 23, 2025 and the President’s desire to make the United States an undis puted leader in 
the development and application of AI technology. As stated in the AI EO, “It is the policy of the 
United States to sustain and enhance America’s global AI dominance in order to promote human 
flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security.” DCC members embrace this 
4 JLL, “Data Centers 2024 Global Outlook ,” (2024).  
5 McKinsey, “ The economic potential of generative AI: The next  productivity frontier ,” (June 2023).  
6 PwC, “Economic Contributions of Data Centers in the United States ,” (February 2025).  
7 Ibid. 
8 Remarks by the Vice President at the Artifi cial Intelligence Action Summit in Paris, France (February 11, 2025).  


opportunity to advance the President’s agenda by bui lding data center infrastructure and enabling 
AI development in the U.S.  
 
Collaboration between the federal government and the private sector is essential to remedy 
regulatory barriers, loosen supply chain bottlenecks for the construction and operation of this 
critical infrastructure, and ensure that the U.S. is on pace with the Trump administration's vision 
for leading global development and deployment of AI.  
 
Below we provide a comprehensive series of policy recommendations to be included in the AI 
Action Plan. Our recommendations encompass potential federal agency and congressional action 
and focus on the removal of barriers to faster data center construction and operation, ranging 
from power access to supply chains to workforce development.   
 
1. Energy Infrastructure and Access to Power  
 
The U.S. requires more data centers to provide the computing power needed to support critical 
and emerging technologies, inclu ding AI, that deliver broad public and economic benefits. As 
demand for data center services continues to rise, timely and reliable access to power is the 
pacing challenge for the industry. After nearly two decades of relatively flat electricity 
consumptio n, the U.S. is experiencing a significant increase in power demand driven by several 
economic growth trends, including the onshoring of new manufacturing, widespread 
electrification, hydrogen fuel production, and growth in demand for data center services. As 
President Trump noted, “the big problem is we need double the energy we currently have in the 
United States…for AI to really be as big as we want to have it because it's very competitive —it 
will be very competitive with China and others.”9 
 
Data center energy demand supports mission -critical operations —and businesses of all sizes —in 
a 24/7, always -on, digital environment, driving economic growth in our local communities and 
maintaining our leadership on the global stage. Data center investment catalyzes supply chain 
and service ecosystems, provides long term employment for the construction workforce, and 
provides high quality jobs to support ongoing operations. At the national level, each direct job in 
the data center industry supports more than six jobs elsewhere in the U.S. economy.10 
 
DCC believes the AI Action Plan should focus on ensuring expedient access to reliable, timely, 
and affordable energy to secure U.S. leadership in the global digital infrastructure race. The 
federal government plays a key ro le in promoting policies that enable greater expansion of the 
data center industry. As Secretary of Energy Chris Wright noted in his confirmation hearing, “I 
am committed to growing our electricity grid and our energy production and removing those 
                                                 
9 President Trump Delivers Virtual Remarks at World Economic Forum (January 23, 2025).  
10 PwC, “Economic Con tributions of Data Centers in the United States ,” (February 2025).  


barriers that are standing in the way.”11 We look forward to engaging with the White House and 
relevant agencies on the implementation of these recommendations and reforms. DCC believes 
that robust dialogue and coordination between the federal government, industry,  and other 
stakeholders is necessary to ensure America wins the AI race.  
a.Ensuring timely access to reliable energy for all customers
The data center industry’s greatest challenge is timely access to reliable energy. Energy policy 
must evolve by promoti ng robust transmission planning, faster interconnection processes, 
innovative commercial arrangements, and next generation technologies. We believe the 
following policy recommendations should be included in the AI Action Plan:  
Administrative Action:  
●Promote Collaboration Across the Energy Landscape: Collaboration and cooperation
from state and federal regulators, policymakers, grid planners, and others is needed to
ensure timely access to energy for data centers. The federal government should play a
leading role in ensuring that these various stakeholders work together to advance data
center development.
●Advance Onsite Cogeneration: Also known as Combined Heat and Power (CHP),
onsite cogeneration is an available dispatchable capacity that can serve a s either baseload
power or offset fluctuations of variable renewable energy resources. While the
Department of Energy (DOE) invested in a CHP program in the early 2000s, its interest
in the technology has waned in recent years. Advancing support for this t echnology at the
federal level can improve both reliability and efficiency, and help address capacity issues
at both data centers and other critical facilities.
●Support Federal Lands for Data Center Development: The federal government should
consider the use of federal lands, both brownfield and greenfield, for data center
development. The federal government should also explore how to bring a variety of
power access solutions —from onsite behind -the-meter to local utility arrangements —into
any federal land projects. This should also come with consideration of how the
government can speed permitting timelines on federal lands.
11 Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee Holds Hearing on the Nomination of Chris Wright (January 15, 
2025).  


Joint Congressional and Agency Action:  
●Federal Support for Utility Investment: Increasingly, utilities are concerned about risk
associated with building out generation and grid capacity required to serve large load
customers, such as data centers. Some utilities are requiring substantial financial
assurance requirements from new large load customers that tie up large amounts of
capital and credit for extended periods of time, chilling investment in some markets and
stranding capital that would otherwise support investment in additional data centers and
markets. Congress and the administration should explore changing existing program s and
mechanisms or establishing new ones that can provide utilities with confidence in
building out required power generation and infrastructure while easing the chilling effects
of these new and increasing financial requirements on large load customers. Existing
programs that could facilitate loan guarantees, credit insurance, or revolving funds
include the DOE’s Loan Programs Office, the Department of Agriculture’s (USDA)
Rural Utilities Service, or the Department of Defense’s Defense Community
Infrastructure Program.
●Support Next Generation Technologies:  Regulatory frameworks should account for
innovation such as hydrogen fuel cells, advanced geothermal development, carbon
capture and storage (CCS), energy storage, and other domestically sourced techno logies
that will undoubtedly be utilized if barriers to deployment are removed. Tax incentives,
faster permitting, and national deployment programs can unleash these technologies at
scale—not only for data centers, but also for other industries
Congressio nal Action: 
●Optimization of the Current Grid:  Congress could clarify how transmission owners
need to deploy Alternative transmission technologies (ATTs) and Grid Enhancing
Technologies (GETs) in Section 219(b)(3) of the Federal Power Act (FPA) and provid e
an incentive structure and regulatory clarity that will create cost -effective solutions for
grid resilience, security, and reliability.12 Congress can also direct funding to reconductor
existing transmission lines, which could quadruple new transmission c apacity by 2035.13
●Support Nuclear Cost Overrun Insurance:  Nuclear power will be a key part of a suite
of new energy infrastructure built to meet future energy demand. Congress should
advance legislation, such as the Accelerating Reliable Capacity (ARC) A ct introduced by
Senator Risch, that aims to address the biggest hurdle in commercial nuclear power
12 U.S. Congress, House, Advancing Grid -Enhancing Technologies Ac t (Advancing GETs Act), H.R.. 7624, 118th 
Cong., 2nd sess., introduced in House March 12, 2025.  
13 GridLab, “ Reconductoring Technical Re port,” (April 2024).  


deployment —financial risk.14 The bill provides a limited risk reduction program for the 
first few emerging nuclear technology projects to demonstrate the technology’s safety 
and reliability. Beyond risk mitigation, more federal funds will be needed to jumpstart 
deployment, given the significant expense of new nuclear projects.  
 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) Action:  
 
● Ensuring Load Forecasting is Robust:  High confidence in load forecasting is necessary 
to spur investment in much -needed new generation resources and transmission 
infrastructure. FERC can help improve the transparency, standardization, and 
effectiveness of load fore casting processes. We respectfully recommend that FERC 
initiate an inquiry into best practices around load forecasting and/or establish FERC -led 
workshops that support the development of best practices for load forecasting over 
multiple time horizons acros s all regions in the U.S.15 
 
● Promote Proactive Transmission Planning:  The federal government should support 
proactive strategies to prepare for expected load increases in the transmission planning 
process. FERC should ensure robust and timely implementation  of Order 1920 -A, which 
requires transmission providers to conduct long -term planning for regional transmission 
facilities over a 20 -year time horizon to anticipate future needs and to determine how to 
pay for those transmission facilities.16  
 
● Explore Gene ration Interconnection Reforms:  FERC should continue to evaluate 
options to expedite generation interconnection requests. Recent reports suggest generator 
interconnection timelines can take up to four years in some regions of the country.17 Grid 
operators a nd FERC should continue to explore ways to use surplus interconnection 
rights to better utilize and quickly connect generation units.18 Additionally, FERC should 
instruct RTOs/ISOs to integrate AI and automation into the interconnection process to 
speed up lengthy study timelines. The Midcontinent Independent System Operator 
(MISO) has seen promising benchmarking results showing that automating the study 
process improves the timeline from 686 days to 10 days.19 
 
 
                                                 
14 U.S. Congress, Senate, Accelerating Reliable Capacity  Act (ARC Act), S. 5421, 118th Cong., 2nd sess., 
introduced in Senate December 4, 2024.  
15 Data Center Coalition, Post -Technical Conference Comments in Docket No. AD24 -11-000 Before the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission  
16 Building for the Future Through Elec. Reg’l Transmission Planning & Cos t Allocation , Order No. 1920, 89 FR 
49280 (June 11, 2024), 187 FERC ¶ 61,068 (2024) . 
17 American Clean Power, “ Interconnection 101 ,” (June 2023).  
18 Utility Dive, “ PJM’s proposal to unlock unused interconnection capacity gains broad support ,” (January 2025).  
19 MISO Interconnection Process Working Group, “ SUGAR Implementation ,” (March 4, 2025).  


●Require Interregional Transmission: Interregio nal transmission is critical for ensuring
grid reliability, reducing costs, and strengthening resilience. FERC should act to require
transmission planning regions to proactively engage in interregional transmission
planning, including establishing regional ly specific minimum transfer capability
guidelines.20
●Access Priority for Certain Interconnection Services: In Order 2003, FERC
established two types of interconnection service: energy resource interconnection service
(ERIS) and network resource interconnection service (NRIS), the latter of which is
commonly thought to enable the generator to qualify as a capacity resource. However, the
current study of ERIS resources does not meaningfully differ from NRIS, despite the
potential efficiencies and f aster interconnection times that ERIS can provide if properly
defined and studied. The failure to make ERIS a viable option is exacerbating the
interconnection challenge, unnecessarily raising costs , and compromising reliability
through the inability to ad d new resources in a timely fashion. FERC should (1) update
the definitions and clearly differentiate between ERIS, provisional ERIS, and NRIS
interconnection standards, and (2) require a transparent, economics -informed screening
step as part of the interc onnection process to help inform developer decisions.
●Ensure Co -Location Arrangements Remain an Option: Co-location is one of several
commercial arrangements that enable data centers to meet their growing power needs in
an efficient manner, particularly i n regions facing transmission or interconnection
constraints.21 President Trump has previously signaled strong support for co -location
arrangements,22 and as such the Trump administration should ensure FERC adopts  a co-
location policy that will dictate long -term market viability of co -location arrangements
while ensuring fair treatment of all ratepayers.23 Current uncertainty around regulatory
expectations is hindering necessary industry investments; clear guidance is essential to
support continued economic growth and infrastructure development.
●Optimization of the Current Grid: ATTs/GETs offer a cost -effective, near -term
solution to transmission constraints. They require far less time —a matter of months —to
install compared to traditional transmission construction timelines.24 Section 219(b)(3) of
the FPA directs FERC to promote investment in electric transmission infrastructure that
20 Joint Comments of Large Consumers, Interregional Transfer Capability Study in Docket No. AD25 -4-000 Before 
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.  
21 Data Center Coalition, Post -Technical Conference Comments in Docket No. AD24 -11-000 Before the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission.  
22 President Trump Delivers Virtual Remarks at World Economic Forum (January 23, 2025).  
23 Data Center Coalition, Post -Technical Conference Comments in Docket No. AD24 -11-000 Before the Federa l 
Energy Regulatory Commission.  
24 WATT Coalition, “ Unlocking the Grid:  Key Benefits of Grid Enhancing Technologies .” 


uses advanced technologies. Also, FERC should proceed with setting a requirement that  
transmission owners deploy ATTs/GETs in certain contexts on existing transmission 
lines while implementing an incentive structure to give utilities an opportunity for a n 
adequate financial return if the ATTs/GETs replace the need for new or upgraded 
transmission lines.25 26 
b. The need for comprehensive permitting reform
We thank the Trump administration for the support of broad permitting reform to accelerate 
American economic growth, national security, and economic competitiveness. Transmission and 
generation constraints across the country are restricting economic growth, including data center 
development, and part of that constraint comes from permitting delays. The federal government 
has a critical leadership role in ensuring the nation has sufficient energy capacity needed to 
power America’s growing economy, including additional transmission lines, energy generation, 
and the deployment of new technologies. DCC supports congressional and administrative action 
on comprehensive permitting reform. We belie ve the following policy recommendations should 
be included in the AI Action Plan:  
Congressional Action: 
●NEPA Overhaul:  The original National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) statute
provided environmental review for instances where other laws and statute s did not
already apply. Permitting reform should deploy NEPA not as an addition to federal
permitting programs and other agency environmental reviews, but in situations where
other statutes/agencies have no role.
○Immediate approvals: For categories of pro jects where environmental impacts are
well understood, either due to the nature or location of the project, Congress
should establish approval criteria that enable project clearance without delay.
○Accelerated approvals:  For projects that may cause unique o r significant negative
local environmental impacts, Congress should establish a bifurcated process that
documents the categories of projects at the outset and  then focuses environmental
review and permitting on any uniquely local conditions of a project on an
accelerated timeline.
○Accelerated adjudications:  Once a project is approved, any adjudications for
projects should include a final decision timeline of we ll under one year to ensure
that protracted litigation does not undermine project viability.
25 Implementation of Dynamic Line Ratings , 187 FERC ¶ 61,201 (2024).  
26 WATT Coalition, “ Frequently Asked Questions .”  


○ State and local conformity:  Eligibility for any federal infrastructure funding, tax 
incentives, or grants shall be conditioned on a state or locality conforming to  the 
same framework and timeline for fast approval and adjudication of projects.  
 
● Limit Judicial Review:  Reduce the statute of limitations deadline from six years to 150 
days (five months) for filing lawsuits against an agency action approving or denying t he 
permitting of an energy project. This change will help reduce uncertainty, so project 
developers know if they have final approval to proceed. The risk to developers spending 
hundreds of millions of dollars on a project that could be halted due to regula tory and 
legal challenges raises the cost of capital and, ultimately, costs for consumers.  
 
● Expand FERC Authority to Permit Transmission Projects in the National Interest: 
Expand the backstop authority of FERC to permit transmission projects deemed “in th e 
national interest.”27 This would allow transmission developers to appeal to FERC for 
siting approval in instances where states are unwilling or unable to grant construction 
permits in a timely manner. This change can save between two and five years in the  
approval process.  
 
● Interregional Transmission Planning:  Require neighboring transmission planning 
regions to create joint plans for constructing interregional transmission with a common 
set of assumptions and time horizons, prioritizing the use of existin g infrastructure and 
rights-of-way.28 
 
● Create Consistent Interregional Cost Allocation Metrics:  Create a standard definition 
of “transmission benefits” so that the costs of a transmission project can be allocated 
among the customers receiving service in a consistent, fair, and reasonable manner. 
Transmission line costs are already allocated accordin g to the well -established principle 
that customers should pay in proportion to how much they benefit from the line; 
customers that do not benefit, do not pay costs associated with a given project.29 These 
lines are only built if the benefits exceed the cost s by a reasonable margin. The 
complication is that different regions use different formulas for determining cost 
allocation based on different definitions of “transmission benefits.” Congress will need to 
direct agencies who can then develop the detailed b enefits nomenclature.  
 
● Expand Categorical Exclusions for Certain Transmission Activities:  Direct the U.S. 
Department of the Interior (DOI) and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to 
                                                 
27 U.S. Congress, Senate, Energy Permitting Reform Act of 2024 (EPRA) , S. 4753, 118th Cong., 2nd sess., 
introduced in Senate July 23, 2024.  
28 Ibid. 
29 Ibid.  


create new categorical exclusions for the following activities relat ed to transmission: 
building transmission facilities within rights -of-way corridors; upgrading existing 
transmission and grid infrastructure within rights -of-ways or on previously disturbed 
land; and deploying energy storage technologies on previously dist urbed lands.30 These 
categorical exclusions currently exist at DOE but not at DOI or USDA, which are more 
often responsible for reviewing projects in need of the exclusions.  
Federal Agency Action:  
●Clean Water Act Section 404 Nationwide Data Center Uses Permit: Data center
development generally falls under Nationwide Permit 39 (Commercial and Industrial
Developments), which (1) limits use beyond 0.5 acre (after which a more extensive
individual permit is required) and (2) requires a Pre -Construction Notif ication (PCN) for
any impact. The lengthy timelines for the approvals are not consistent with other national
permits that have higher or no limits or have a threshold where a PCN is not needed,
which allows immediate action. We recommend that the U.S. Army  Corps of Engineers
(USACE) develops a Nationwide Permit for Data Centers with robust notification and
coverage thresholds.
●Clean Water Act Section 404 Streamlining:  Additional permitting efficiency
improvements at USACE should include:
○Direct the Corps Regulatory Branches to limit jurisdiction to areas below ordinary
high-water mark and immediately adjacent areas/uplands. “Area of Potential
Effect” for  Section 106 consultations should not extend beyond USACE
jurisdiction.
○Set a regulatory time limit for responding to jurisdictional delineations.
○Provide a single contact within the Corps for large data center investments.
○Provide a mechanism for applicants to reimburse staff time/department
consultants for expedited permit reviews.
○Issue a new “Memorandum to the Field” reaffirming that prior converted cropland
is not considered a Water of the United States, and rescinding direction related to
“change in use” kick -out (included in a 2005 Memorandum to the Field). This
would be consistent with the pre -2015 regulatory definition of Waters of the
United States.
●Clean Air Act Rules for Stationary Engines: Diesel generators provide critical backup
power for data centers. However, EPA stationary engine rules have been under a court
remand since 2016 regarding  the allowed maintenance and testing (“non -emergency
30 Ibid.


operation”) provisions for emergency generators, creating operational uncertainty and 
risk. EPA issued a request for comments in 2023.  
○Require EPA to respond to the June 2023 public comment period on station ary
engines and retain the 50 hours of non -emergency operation for stationary engines
classified as “emergency” to maintain data center operational flexibility.
○EPA should issue guidance to regional offices to ensure renewable diesel
conforming to ASTM D97 5 is an approved fuel in the RICE rules.
Joint Congressional and Agency Action:  
●Streamline Nuclear Permitting:  The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) should
further streamline permitting to allow for more projects to qualify under the faster
Environmental Assessment (EA), and follow the direction of the Fiscal Responsibility
Act 2023 to complete EA assessments un der 12 months. President Trump has already
promoted the “technology inclusive” approach in his first term that enables reactors of all
types to follow the same type of safety rules, including for new Small Modular Reactors
(SMRs) and other new nuclear tech nologies. As nuclear technologies evolve, outdated
restrictions related to siting and other planning considerations should ease, allowing for
NRC-regulated technologies to be deployed in the locations where they are needed most.
We support swift promulgati on of NRC rules to advance the administration’s agenda of
removing hurdles to the deployment of cutting -age nuclear technologies.
Looking ahead, the challenges of load growth and resource adequacy will require a concerted 
effort among the federal governm ent, utilities, customers, states, and other stakeholders. Data 
centers are key players in the ongoing transformation of the electricity sector, and our industry is 
eager to contribute to solutions that ensure reliable, affordable, and adequate power for a ll 
consumers. DCC is actively engaged with stakeholders nationwide and we support greater 
communication, collaboration, and transparency in planning for future load growth. DCC 
members are committed to paying their full cost -of-service for generation, dist ribution, and 
transmission.  
Finally, even in places where co -location and other off -grid power arrangements may make 
sense, new transmission —both regional and interregional —as well as grid upgrades and 
optimization to handle the extra capacity are inescap able and necessary.  
2.Critical Equipment and Supply Chains
Major sectors of the U.S. economy are experiencing shortages and delays with delivery of capital 
equipment, especially power generation and distribution equipment —and materials. For 


example, the U .S. lags far behind competitors such as China when it comes to electrical 
manufacturing. There is only one U.S. producer of grain -oriented electrical steel (GOES), a key 
component of transformers. Foreign dominance of GOES and other critical transformer 
components have forced U.S. producers to depend on foreign supply, hurting their ability to 
compete with more vertically -integrated competitors abroad.31 
DCC members report broad challenges in procuring critical data center equipment, along with 
lengthening lead-times for delivery. Shortages are dependent upon general industry demand, 
leading to demand spikes across all data center operators, including hyperscalers. Some of the 
critical equipment categories that have experienced delays and fluctuations in del ivery 
timeframes are:  
-Mid and high -voltage circuit breakers
-Mid and high -voltage transformers
-Low and mid -voltage switchgear
-Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) units
-Chillers and cooling equipment
-Backup generators
While the data center industry works har d to source domestic content, and suppliers are 
increasingly looking to build more U.S. capacity, it is not always possible to source domestically 
in the short -term. Supply chain issues for circuit breakers and transformers are ongoing in 2025, 
and new tar iffs previously led to multi -year delays in shipments of switchgear, UPS, and other 
equipment. We believe the following policy recommendations should be included in the AI 
Action Plan:  
Federal Agency Action:  
●Promote Standardization of Design and Complexi ty Reduction:  The administration
could use DOE’s Electricity Advisory Committee (EAC) convening authority to develop
common standards for transformer procurement. The default today is that each utility
develops different standards and requirements for even  commonplace distribution
transformers, making standardized sales and manufacturing difficult. Some industry
coordination and standard -setting work is already underway through the EAC.
●Establish a Strategic Transformer Reserve: Establish a strategic reser ve for
transformers where the U.S. government can serve as a buyer of last resort if there are
manufacturer delays. The reserve’s function could be like that of the U.S. Strategic
National Stockpile for medical equipment needed to respond to large public h ealth
emergencies. As envisioned by the National Infrastructure Advisory Council, the
31 Green Tape, “ How Biden Traded Transformers for Heat Pumps,” (February 2025). 


mechanism would function like the USDA commodity price supports, except that price 
would not be the trigger; rather, the support would be activated when plant capacity 
utilization dips below a particular threshold.32 The resulting physical reserve could then 
be stored until production capacity utilization was high and lead times expanded again to 
unacceptable levels. At that point, the federal government, working with its p rivate sector 
partners, would determine a suitable reserve drawdown to alleviate shortages. 
Congressional Action:  
●Expanding Domestic Capacity through Federal Policies and Funding:  Create
incentive structures for critical electrical equipment manufacturing. For example,
Congress could pass Senators Moran and Cortez Masto’s CIRCUIT Act, which extends a
10% tax credit to transformer manufacturing.33 This will help domestic transformer
production “pencil out” and support the struggling industry as it looks to recapitalize. The
executive branch could also repurpose the remaining Defense Production Act (DPA)
funding at DOE (~$14M) for transformer manufacturing rather than heat pump
manufacturing. This is long overdue, and would support the Trump administration’s
focus on national security .
●Expand Domestic Availability of Critical Transformer Components: Increase
availability of GOES and other materials necessary for the construction of transformer
components by creating incentives to quickly expand domestic processing capabilities
and capacity.
Joint Congressional and Agency Action:  
●Targeted Trade Poli cy: Protecting the reliability of the supply chain with careful trade
policy that doesn’t undermine our ability to source critical equipment is necessary,
especially since we are in a race with countries like China for faster digital infrastructure
deployment. For example, tariffs on key data center infrastructure components will limit
and slow the ability of U.S. companies to make strategic and essential investments to
ensure that America remains the world leader in AI. The administration should consider
exemptions for key data center components —if only for a defined period.
32 The National Infrastructure Advisory Council, “ Addressing the Critical Shortage of Power Transformers to 
Ensure Reliability of the U.S. Grid ,” (June 2024).  
33 U.S. Congress, Senate, Credit Incentives for Resilient Critical Utility Infrastructure and Transformer s Act 
(CIRCUIT Act) , S. 448, 119th Cong., 1st sess., introduced in Senate February 6, 2025.  


3.Workforce Development and American Jobs in Data Centers
Investment in domestic data center infrastructure supports growth in domestic jobs, both highly 
skilled operational jobs in data centers and jobs in the broader economy including construction, 
electricians, telecommunications, manufacturing, and pipefitters.34 At the national level, each 
direct job in the data center industry supports more than six jobs elsewhere in the U.S. 
economy.35 Between November 2023 and November 2024, construction spending by the U.S. 
data center industry increased 43%, compared to a 3% increase in total U.S. construction 
spending.36 A recent study by PwC found that the data center industry’s total contribution to 
national labor income was $404 billion in 2023 —a 93% increase from 2017.37 With rapid 
expansion of AI and the needed data center  infrastructure, both trades and highly skilled labor 
needs will increase even more dramatically.  
Worker shortages are commonplace already. A 2023 Data Center Staffing Survey from the 
Uptime Institute found staffing shortages as high as 48% at mid - and junior-level operations 
positions, and 41% and 33% in electrical and mechanical jobs, respectively.38 
As data centers expand from traditional “mature” markets such as Northern Virginia to emerging 
markets across the country, workforce shortages are amplifie d by a mismatch between the 
existing skills in those communities and the skills necessary for operations and trades positions. 
We believe the following policy recommendations should be included in the AI Action Plan:  
Administrative Action:  
●Create a National Technology Hub:  Create a national technology hub for data centers
that can train workers, develop common curricula, and coordinate with local and regional
academic institutions. The federal government should consider adding a data center
operation s hub to the “Tech Hubs Program” under the U.S. Department of Commerce.39
●Expand the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS): The U.S.
Office of Management and Budget, the U.S. Census Bureau, and industry should
collaborate to expand the clas sification system with a specific NAICS code for the data
center industry.40 The lack of specific NAICS codes keeps the American workforce in the
dark regarding the rapidly growing opportunities for good -paying careers in the data
34 Fierce Network, “ Data center builders are fee ling the labor shortage burn ,” (March 7, 2024).  
35 PwC, “Economic Contributions of Data Centers in the United States .”
36 Associated General Contractors of America, “ Construction Outlook Presentation ,” (January 2025).  
37 PwC, “Economic Contributions of Data Centers in the United States .” 
38 The Uptime Institute, “ The Uptime Institute Data Center Staffing Survey 2023 ,” (December 2023).  
39 U.S. Economic Development Administration, “ Regional Technology and Innovation Hubs (Tech Hubs) .” 
40 U.S. Census Bureau, “ North American In dustry Classification System – NAICS.” 


center industry. Defining specific NAICS codes for key data center operational careers 
presents an important opportunity for workforce development.
●Promote America Works: DCC supports initiatives to promote skills -based hiring,
rather than the traditional approach that uses degree s and certifications. The federal
government could partner with business groups and industry to expand skills -based
opportunity options in federally sponsored programs.
●Expand and Strengthen Education Programs:  Build on the success of existing
initiatives such as the Northern Virginia Community College program for Data Center
Operations,41 Wenatchee Valley Community College in Washington,42 and Illinois
Community College Board (ICCB) that creates partnerships between the private sector,
academia, and the go vernment.43 Using the existing funding through NSF or the DPA
tool of financial assistance, the federal government could provide funding to states,
community colleges, or vocational schools, on a regional basis, to expand existing
workforce development and training programs or establish such programs for data center
operations.
●Veteran Workforce:  We support programs that train veterans in skills that can be used
at data centers. Federal government agencies like the Department of Veterans Affairs can
work with industry to establish such programs and provide long -lasting, well-paying jobs
to the veteran community.
III. Conclusion
DCC thanks the Trump administration for its leadership in promoting a strong AI ecosystem here 
in the U.S. Data centers are vital to enabling critical and emerging technologies like AI that are 
essential to U.S. national security, international competitive ness, and economic prosperity. With 
the right approach to deploying data center infrastructure, the U.S. can win the AI race safely, 
securely, and to the benefit of all Americans. We look forward to a continued dialogue and 
exchanging in -depth ideas about our recommendations on an AI Action Plan.  
Please contact Cy McNeill, Director of Federal Energy Policy, at  if 
you have questions on the information provided or would like to schedule additional 
conversations.  
41 Northern Virginia Community College, “ Data Center Operations. ” 
42 National Science Foundation, “ Award Abstract # 2400577, Critical Environments for Data Center  
Operations ,” (2024).  
43 DCC and several DCC members serve on the ICCB Advi sory Committee. See Illinois Community  
College Board, “ Data Center Curriculum Project Advisory Committee ,” (April 2024), slide 7. 


