March 15, 2025  
Office of Science and Technology Policy 
The Executive Office of the President 
1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 
Washington, DC 20500  
RE: AI Action Plan  
Sent via email to 
Digital Content Next (“DCN” or “we”) appreciates the opportunity to submit comments as the Office of 
Science and Technology Policy formulates an AI Action Plan. 90 Fed. Reg. 9088 (Feb. 6, 2025), pursuant 
to Executive Order 14179, 90 Fed. Reg. 8741 (Jan. 23, 2025).  
DCN is the only association exclusively focused on paving the way for high -quality digital media 
companies. Our members are global leaders in their fields and include some of the most trusted brands on 
the web – big and small, legacy brands and digital nat ives – including Fox News, Major League Baseball 
(MLB), The Wall Street Journal, NBCUniversal, The Guardian, The New York Post, Vox Media and 
Financial Times. DCN’s members1 together, have an audience of 259 million unique visitors, or 95% 
reach of the U.S. online population.  
We support the Trump Administration’s goal of ensuring that America remains the leader in the Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) field. A key component to achieving this goal and the broader success of American 
businesses is the robust protection and enforcement of U.S. intellectual property law including the 
Copyright Act .
1 See https://digitalcontentnext.org/membership/members/  for a listing of current DCN members.  


Today, American publishers make their copyrighted content available to consumers through a wide range of 
means, including on websites and apps whose continued offerings are supported by various methods of 
monetization, such as advertising, subscriptions an d licensing. Ensuring adequate protection for the content 
they produce and distribute is a fundamental requirement to sustain incentives to invest in digital businesses 
which not only entertain and inform American consumers but are also exported the world over. 
The longstanding legal rights for copyright holders are derived from the U.S. Constitution (Article I, section 
8, clause 8), which affords them the opportunity to monetize the results of their hard work and investment in 
a variety of ways and incentivizes them to reinvest in the creation of additional content and new innovative 
delivery mechanisms to potential consumers. The benefits of this system to American and international 
consumers are nearly impossible to quantify as all kinds of copyrighted material  enrich our lives daily: 
music, literature, film and television, sports, academic treatises and research papers, visual art, journalism, 
and other original works of art and science. The Founding Fathers expressly gave authority to Congress to 
protect the r ights of original content creators because they recognized the value of original works to the 
betterment of the United States.  
Indeed, American content creators, including news organizations and other publishers, contribute 
significantly to U.S. economic growth, including through employment, exports and important trade surplus, 
and digital services and goods.  According to a recent  study2, copyright -based industries accounted for 12.31 
percent of the U.S. economy and 63.13 percent of the U.S. digital economy. From 2020 to 2023, these 
industries outpaced U.S. economic growth almost threefold. In the digital sector alone, copyright -based 
industries employ 56.6 percent of all employees in the digital sector.  The annual compensation paid to core 
copyright workers is approximately 50 percent higher than the average U.S. annual wage. As for the global 
impact, the sales of select U.S. copyrighted products in overseas markets amounted to $272.6 billion, which 
exceeded the sales of other IP industries including pharmaceuticals, agriculture, and aerospace.  
Our IP laws are directly responsible for this strong economic output and growth. These laws set us apart 
from countries like China with notoriously lax IP frameworks that lead to fragile economies built, in part, 
on theft rather than original creativity an d innovation. Copyright promotes fair competition, enabling those 
who invest in innovation to make their products and services available to the public.  The development of 
AI has challenged some of those objectives in different ways, ranging from litigatio n over the use of 
copyright protected content to train and operate AI models, to the well -known example of DeepSeek’s R1 
model, which prompted OpenAI to accuse the company of IP theft, claiming that DeepSeek may have used 
OpenAI’s IP  and violated its terms of service  to develop its AI model.   
“We know PRC (China) based companies - and others - are constantly trying to distill the models of leading 
US AI companies,” OpenAI said in a statement to Bloomberg3. “As the leading builder of AI, we engage in 
countermeasures to protect our IP, including a careful process for which frontier capabilities to include in 
released models, and believe as we go forward that it is critically important that we are working clo sely with 
the US government to best protect the most capable models from efforts by adversaries and competitors to 
take US technology.”  
The American values of IP protection that have been a cornerstone in the country’s innovative spirit and 
competitive edge over foreign adversaries. Protecting IP is a matter of preserving the core principles that 
distinguish American businesses in the global market. OpenAI is correct to be concerned about how third 
parties may be able to free ride off its efforts and massive investments. Indeed, publishers have sought to 
uphold these same principles in lawsuits against AI companies for unauthorized use of publ isher content in 
the companies’ products.  
Generative artificial intelligence systems such as large language models are tools which can be used to 
2  Stoner, Robert and Dutra, Jéssica; Secretariat Economists; “Copyright Industries and the U.S. Economy, 2024 Report;” Prepared  for the 
International Intellectual Property Alliance; Feb. 2025; p. 1; https://www.iipa.org/files/uploads/2025/02/IIPA -Copyright -Industries -in-the-U.S.-
Economy -Report-2024_ONLINE_FINAL.pdf . 
3 https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2025 -01-29/microsoft -probing-if-deepseek-linked-group-improperly -obtained-openai-data?embedded -
checkout=true  


execute creative tasks more efficiently, but the manner in which many AI developers have exploited 
original content without consent or compensation - to build and operationalize their commercial products - 
has unjustifiably violated the rights of copyright  holders and upended the existing balance which has 
historically sustained and promoted innovation.  
AI developers use copyright protected content not only to “teach” their models to predict and mimic 
language skills, but also as a means to create compelling outputs which have the effect of substituting for 
the original works on which the models were trai ned. This activity unfairly competes with those who 
invested in the creation of the original material and undermines their ability to seek a fair economic return. 
By “reaping that which they do not sow” AI companies cause harm to creators, publishers and t he 
ecosystem as a whole. It is important that this form of destructive misappropriation be deterred, whether 
by copyright law or other appropriate means.  
At the same time, AI companies have not designed their systems to be transparent about the sources upon 
which the systems train or base their  outputs, or the means by which they acquire the content in the first 
place. AI developers gather much of the content they use to train, fine -tune and ground their systems using 
bots which crawl the internet, and scrape content. This lack of transparency harms American copyright 
holders. Content creators are left in the dark about whether and how their content has been used, which 
seriously impa irs their ability to enforce their IP rights.      
The actions of AI developers have spurred 39 lawsuits, the outcome of which will provide much -     
needed clarity regarding the application of existing copyright law, including the fact -specific defense of 
fair use, to the infringement of the rights of copyright holders to develop generative AI technology. The 
Trump administration should let the courts resolve these issues.  At the same time, it’s important that the 
AI Action Plan emphasize respect for U.S. copyright law both to protect American content creators from 
unfair competition, and as an essential element of what is needed to sustain American AI dominance. 
Outside the  U.S., we remain concerned by the efforts of some governments to weaken copyright law to 
effectively subsidize the development of AI in their countries at the expense of US content creators. 
Similar to the President’s focus on re ciprocity4 with international trade partners in order to ensure 
American businesses have a fair chance at competing, the weakening of copyright is a threat to American 
prosperity whether it occurs at home or abroad.    
In addition, the AI Action Plan should endorse transparency obligations, which some states have already 
enacted into law. Companies offering AI tools to the public should be required to disclose any 
copyrighted works of others that they use without explicit consent or license to train and otherwise operate 
their systems. Companies collecting content for using in training or operationalizing AI tools often do so 
using “bots” to crawl and scrape content without disclosing their identity or purpose, and ignore explicit 
terms of use and other means of expressing preferences, c reating a lawless environment online. Publishers 
and other stakeholders who make content available online should have greater visibility into the identity 
of bots, and be empowered to effectively permit or deny the collection  and exploitation  of their content      
in the creation or operationalizing of AI systems.  
Also, the AI Action Plan should encourage the free market licensing of content by AI companies that want 
to use protected content in their models or in AI -generated outputs. There is an emerging licensing 
framework as many deals have been struck by publish ers, record labels, motion picture industries, and 
others. OpenAI, Google, and Perplexity have all made efforts to pay for the right to use protected content to 
power their models and tools - a clear acknowledgment that this model is not only necessary, bu t eminently 
feasible. As proof, dozens of AI licensing deals have already been announced, including with major 
publishers such as News Corp, The Guardian, Axel Springer, Prisa, Schibsted and Reuters, and other 
content owners like Reddit and UMG.  
Many leading members of the AI technology community agree with this basic principle. Sam Altman, CEO 
of OpenAI, stated that “creators deserve control over how their creations are used and what happens beyond 
the point of them releasing it into the world,” and “the right thing is to make sure [creators] get significant 
4 https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact -sheets/2025/02/fact -sheet-president-donald-j-trump-announces -fair-and-reciprocal -plan-on-trade/ 


upside benefit” from AI technologies. OpenAI alone has already negotiated free market licenses for training 
materials from ShutterStock, the Financial Times, Associated Press, Guardian, Schibsted, Axios, Hearst, 
Conde Nast, News Corp., and many others.   
One U.S. District Court recently confirmed that licensing is required for the use of copyrighted content to 
train an AI system. In Thomson Reuters Enter. Ctr. GmBH v. Ross Intel. Inc., the court, applying clear and 
recent precedent from the U.S. Supreme Co urt, held that the defendant’s unauthorized use of the plaintiff’s 
works to train the defendant’s AI system was direct infringement and did not constitute fair use.  The Court 
reaffirmed that the impact of the use on existing and potential markets is the si ngle most important element 
of a fair use analysis, and that there was clearly a potential market to use the materials at issue in the case to 
train AI. This decision underscores that free market licensing of AI training materials should be a 
cornerstone o f the AI Action Plan.  
We believe that a rising tide can lift all boats. Only maintaining existing copyright protections will lead to a 
robust, free market where creators are incentivized to make high quality works and AI companies are 
incentivized to license them.  For these rea sons, the AI Action Plan should support existing U.S. copyright 
law, reject new exceptions, require transparency and encourage free market licensing.  
Finally, while the AI market develops, we are concerned that an imbalance of competition in the tech 
industry could exacerbate the unauthorized use of copyrighted material since many of the largest deployers 
of AI systems also enjoy a dominant market posit ion. For example, it is highly concerning that a dominant 
company like Google crawls publishers’ copyrighted content for the purposes of search, without explicit 
permission, and then uses that crawled content for AI or leverages its market position to force publishers 
to allow new crawlers for AI and, in some cases, uses the results of that crawling to create competing 
products. In all of these scenarios, the publisher is not practically able to limit or authorize each specific 
purpose for which their content may be used. The AI Action Plan should encourage the Department of 
Justice and Federal Trade Commission to remain focused  on ensuring that dominant tech companies do 
not illegally leverage their market position to block competitors or solidify their dominance, including 
when it comes to AI. Specifically regarding the Department of Justice’s successful case against Google 
where a judge recently found that Google violated antitrust laws in protecting their search service, the DOJ 
should continue to tailor its proposed remedies to promote healthy competition in the AI markets going 
forward. 
We appreciate your thoughtful leadership and the opportunity to submit comments in this proceeding. 
Please do not hesitate to reach out directly if you have any questions or would like to discuss these matters 
in greater detail.  
Sincerely,  
Chris Pedigo  
SVP, Government Affairs  
Digital Content N ext 


