National Science Foundation  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  
Networking and Information Technology  
Research and Development National Coordination Office  
Response to RFI on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
March 14, 2025  


Deloitte Consulting LLP  
1919 North Lynn Street  
Arlington, VA 22209  
Tel: +
www.deloitte.com  
March 14, 2025  
Mr. Faisal D’Souza  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  
Executive Office of the President  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
RE: Deloitte Consulting, LLP Comments on the “Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan”  
Dear Mr. D’Souza:  
Deloitte Consulting LLP ( Deloitte
1) appreciates this opportunity to submit comments in 
response to the National Science Foundation Networking and Information Technology 
Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office’s (NCO) Request for 
Information. As a leading provider of digital transformation solutions to more than 99% of the Fortune 500 and 15 cabinet -level Federal agencies, Deloitte provides insights, 
implementation, and operational support that deliver on the promise of Artificial 
Intelligence ( “AI”) innovation.  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  
Our comments reflect our deep experience with more than 2,800 customers who are applying leading- edge artificial intelligence processes across industry and government. 
We look forward to working with you to achieve optimum value to the National 
Coordination Office. If you have any questions or require additional information, please 
contact me at +(703)   or Roger Sion at  
+(571)  . 
Sincer
ely,
Edward Van Bure n  Roger Sion  
Principal  Managing Director    
Deloitte Consulting,  LLP Deloitte Consulting,  LLP 
1 As used in this document, "Deloitte" means Deloitte Consulting, LLP , a subsidiary of Deloitte LLP . Please see www.deloitte.com/us/about for a detailed description 
of the legal structure of Deloitte LLP and its subsidiaries. Certain services may not be available to attest clients under the rules and regulations of public accounting.  


Table of Contents  
Table of Contents  ............................................................................................................ 2  
Company Profile  .............................................................................................................. 2  
Introduction  ..................................................................................................................... 3  
Observations and Considerations  ................................................................................... 4  
Win the Technology Race ................................................................................ 4  
Win the Adoption Race .................................................................................... 4  
Win the Enduring Business M odel Race ......................................................... 4  
Win the Technology Race  ................................................................................................ 5  
Adopt Hybrid Cloud Infrastructure to Accelerate AI Solution Development  ..... 5  
Provide Risk Management Guidance to Safeguard Future Growth  ................. 6  
Win the Adoption Race .................................................................................................... 7  
Accelerate AI Innovation Through Streamlining Procurement Processes  ....... 7  
Streamline and Expedite Approvals for Cutting- Edge AI Technologies  ........... 7  
The Right Access to the Right Workers with the Right Skills  .......................... 8  
Win the Enduring Business M odel Race ......................................................................... 9  
Promote AI Innovation Through Leveraging Open- Source Development 
Standards  ................................................................................................. 9  
Support Competitive Business M odels  .......................................................... 10 
Conclusion  .................................................................................................................... 10 
Company Profile  
Company  Name  Deloitte Consulting LLP  
Location  1919 N. Lynn Street, Arlington, VA, 22209  
Contact Name  Edward Van Buren  Roger Sion  
Contact Title  Principal  Managing Direct or 
Email Address  
Phone Number  


Introduction  
Deloitte applauds NITRD NCO’s efforts to develop an AI Action Plan to implement the 
President’s Executive Order on Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial 
Intelligence (Executive Order 14179) .  
U.S. led commercial innovation has led to the development of transformative AI 
capabilities from automati ng repetitive tasks to Generative AI  (GenAI)  solutions that can 
use reasoning to answer questions that drive mission outcomes and government 
efficiency. Today, companies stand on the verge of breakthroughs in solutions , like 
agentic AI, which are poised to accelerate human performance and enable AI at scale . 
Far from being an abstract competition,  AI breakthroughs are essential to enhancing the 
economic competitiveness, national security, and wellbeing of everyday Americans . 
Similar to previous eras of American- led technology advancements (from railroads  to 
the internet), advancements in AI are poised catalyze innovations in diverse fields , 
including quantum computing, cryptocurrencies,  robotics, and nanotechnology.   
However, as AI innovation continues to expand, America faces a more complex  
competitive environment  with a number of dimensions . AI leadership requires  the 
development of  superior  AI technologies, faster  adoption of those systems  by users , 
and enduring business model s that accelerate AI transformation. Each of these 
dimensions of competition is integral to continued U .S. leadership in AI .  
•Competition for technology innovation determines  U.S. ability  to maintain its
dominant position in AI and will help American businesses and workers .i
•Competit ion for adoption determines how quickly Americans will reap the
benefits of AI through greater per capita GDP  and stronger national security .
•Competition on business model s determines which models and practices
dominate the global AI industry and the extent to which American business
models  shape the AI landscape.ii
To sustain and grow its lead in AI, America needs government, industry, academia, and 
other players to work together across each of these dimensions of AI competition. This 
cooperation must be done efficiently , not be tied down by bureaucracy.  With decades of 
working with government, industry, and academia on AI, Deloitte is keenly interested in 
supporting American AI development. Deloitte is a leading digital transformation firm in 
the field of AI, with 27,000+ AI skilled practitioners efficiently working across 
government and private sector companies. We leverage software innovation from our 
leading technology partners to drive efficiencies and mission outcomes.  


Observations and Considerations  
To support economic competitiveness, national security, and human flourishing  through 
innovation, the United States  needs to win  in each dimension of AI competition. T o 
this end, we recommend the government consider the following actions:  
Win the Technology Race 
•Adopt hybrid cloud infrastructure to accelerate AI solution development :
Given its scale , government can act as a catalyst for faster and scalable AI
infrastructure development. With a majority of AI workloads being hosted in
public, private, or hybrid cloud architecture, the U .S. government should ensure
that it builds the infrastructure required to deploy both current AI solutions and
frontier models that are pushing the limits of AI capabilities.iii This requires
stronger partnerships with startups, innovation labs, and academic researchcenters to inform infrastructure requirements.
•Provide risk management guidance to safeguard future growth : The AI
Action Plan can help to secure AI by creating voluntary standards and guidance
for AI risk mitigation so that that AI is used responsibly . Favoring outcomes -
based voluntary standards will enable AI innovations that outpace our
competitors and  shape global AI standards in America’s  best interest.
Win the Adoption Race 
•Accelerate AI innovation by streamlining procurement processes :
Accelerating government adoption can improve government efficiency,
accelerate the delivery of government services to Americans, help AI startups to
grow more quickly and spur broader adoption of AI across the country.
Techniques like Other Transaction Authorit ies (OTA s) and expanding the
Simplified Acquisition Threshold  can speed government’s adoption.
•Streamline and expedite approvals  for cutting-edge AI technologies : The
Federal government can help to accelerate adoption of cutting- edge technology
by streamlining duplicative information reviews present in existing information
security processes, such as the Federal Risk and Authorization Management
Program (FedRAMP) and Authority to Operate (ATO)  processes. This would
improve efficiency while maintaining a strong security posture.
•Right access to the right workers with the right skills: With robust support
from senior  leadership, line employees in government stand poised to unearth
many of the most transformative AI use cases.
iv But to find and develop those
winning use cases, workers need access to the appropriate tools and level of
training for their roles and occupations.
Win the Enduring Business Model Race 
•Promote AI innovation through leveraging open-source development
standards : The National Institute of Standards and Technology ( NIST ) has the
opportunity to accelerate American- led AI innovation and faster AI adoption by
strengthening open- source AI standards  in its Risk Management Framework.


• Support c ompetitive business relationships : America’s private sector  is 
already one of the most trusted globally. The Government should encourage 
cross- sector cooperation and partnerships domestically to increase innovation 
and support American AI growth in the global market.  
Win the Technology Race  
Adopt hybrid cloud infrastructure to accelerate AI solution development  
Given the vast size and scale of information processing of the government, there 
is an opportunity for the government to act as a catalyst for faster and scalable infrastructure development . 
Widespread AI adoption requires stronger infrastructure . For government,  this starts 
with improved cloud technology . While AI models are shrinking and significant AI 
advancements are making on -device models a reality, the vast majority of government 
AI workloads are still hosted in some form of cloud environment. This means that 
building sufficient cloud infrastructure – both physical data centers as well as software 
and managed services – across the country is central to continued AI strength.  
Significant infrastructure is needed to support the rapid pace of AI and cloud adoption. That means physical infrastructure such as power and water for data centers. Deloitte 
predicts data centers will only make up about 2% of global electricity consumption, or 536 terawatt -hours (TWh), in 2025. But as power -intensive GenAI  training and inference 
continues to grow faster than other uses and applications, global data center electricity consumption could roughly double to 1,065 TWh by 2030.
 v  Along with the power, the 
U.S. will also need the talent and software that go into the cloud- based managed 
services.  
Federal buying power can help move the needle on both fronts. The integration of AI 
into government’s  existing digital  infrastructure remains a significant challenge, both in 
terms of financial investment and speed of deployment. To deploy AI applications , and 
frontier models, agencies require high bandwidth, low latency and flexible architectures 
to train and fine- tune AI applications and deploy them to a global workforce that 
operates on- prem, on cloud, on- edge, and on device. This necessitates substantial 
financial investment and the ability to scale rapidly, which can be particularly daunting for government agencies operating in the era of rapid technological innovation.   
The challenges associated with building AI infrastructure can lead to several implications for government agencies, including delayed implementations, increased costs, technological lag, and operational inefficiencies. For instance, the lack of a robust 
AI strategy could result in fragmented efforts and missed opportunities for innovation. 
Moreover, without proper data governance practices, agencies may face potential 
cybersecurity and national security challenges, as highlighted by the 2030 Vision of the Federal Data Strategy
vi. 
To overcome these challenges, government can play a pivotal role by fostering an environment where emerging AI technologies can thrive. This involves ensuring diverse 
perspectives are heard in public -private partnerships, establishing data governance 


practices, and promoting secure and reliable AI. 
Provide risk management guidance to safeguard future growth  
The AI Action Plan can advance AI innovation by creating voluntary consensus 
standards and guidance for AI risk mitigation to ensure that the technology is 
used responsibly . 
AI holds great promise for promoting U .S. economic growth, national security , and 
technological competitiveness. AI can also introduce new risks if deployed without 
sufficient human oversight and risk management processes . AI can act against the 
goals of its creators and, in more extreme adversarial scenarios, could cause damage 
to U.S. national and economic security.   
Uncertainty about how these risks will be controlled – whether by regulation or by other 
means – impairs American innovation.vii America ’s future strength in AI  rests on finding 
clarity.  
More than simply human oversight, AI development needs American oversight. Various 
countries, many of which are America’s greatest geopolitical competitors, already use AI 
as an autocratic  tool.viii  
A clear focus on desirable and undesirable outcomes can help government protect 
public interests that will help industry to continue  innovat ing. Despite being a powerful 
tool, outcome- based polici es – which describe the intended result that a regulation 
should deliver , rather than describing the specific sequences of actions – make up less 
than 1% of the 1,600+ AI policies enacted across the globe.ix 
Voluntary consensus standards and guidance for AI risk mitigation can help turn that 
focus on outcomes into actions that organizations can take. NIST  has played an 
important role over the years in developing voluntary consensus standards such as the 
NIST AI Risk Management Framework (AI RMF), Cybersecurity Framework, and 
Privacy Risk Management Framework. NIST’s long track record of creating flexible, outcome- based, and adoptable risk management frameworks that are voluntary but 
widely adopted by industry can be incorporated into the new plan or serve as a model for new standards  both nationally and globally .  
NIST’s deep AI experience, which began during the first Trump Administration at the 
direction of the President’s 2019 Executive Order (E xecutive Order  13859) , positions 
the agency well to play a powerful role in the AI Action Plan.  When NIST was 
developing the AI RMF , Deloitte recommended that creating a voluntary, flexible, 
outcome based, and highly adoptable framework  is the correct approach to create 
“guardrails” for organizations use to engender a trustworthy AI marketplace that can help enable innovation while mitigating harm. These goals remain relevant as the U .S. 
develops an AI Action Plan. In addition, the AI RMF can serve as an example as an 
iterative document. Because AI moves at a rapid pace, it can be beneficial for frameworks to adapt to new findings and input from industry, academia, civil society organizations, and other stakeholders.  


Win the Adoption Race 
Accelerate AI innovation through streamlining procurement processes  
Government procurement can support American- led AI innovation by expanding 
the use of rapid contracting techniques like OTA and expanding the Simplified 
Acquisition Threshold.  
As a leading buyer of information technology, the Federal government can shape the 
global AI landscape by supporting the American- led AI ecosystem of startups and 
technology innovators through procurement. This is a role that the Federal government 
has played in the past. For example, as one of the largest single buyers of cloud 
services, Federal performance standards helped promote cloud security practices 
across the industry.x To drive AI innovation, the Federal government can follow this 
pattern and use its scale to apply innovations  from private industry.  This would both 
accelerate government efficiency and strengthen the American AI innovation, especially 
among startups . 
However, complex procurement regulations and outdated requirements present a 
significant barrier to bringing AI innovation into government. It takes agencies an 
average of 18- 24 months to award contracts, with further delays for the acquisition of 
innovati ve technologies like AI. Moreover, government contracting continues to rely on 
overly prescriptive  requirements that often rely on outdated technologies , manual 
solutions, and business -as-usual thinking.  These factors can result in the delivery of 
outdated solutions by the time contracts are awarded, resulting in inefficient technology 
that is in some cases decades behind industry standards.  
Consequently, startup firms – where many AI innovations are pioneered - are 
discouraged from participating in government contracts due to the lengthy and 
cumbersome procurement processes. This not only stifles the ability of innovators to 
drive government efficiency but  also misses an opportunity to further extend America’s 
AI leadership in the commercial market.  
The government has several options to streamline procurement to support AI innovation. Leveraging alternative contracting mechanisms such as OTAs have improved procurement efficiency by streamlining reviews. OTA s allow for more flexible 
and expedited procurement process es, reducing the award timelines to as little as 3 to 6 
months. This makes it particularly useful for acquiring innovative products at a lower risk to the government.  
Expanding the use of Simplified Acquisition Thresholds can also improve procurement timelines and enable the faster adoption of innovative AI solutions at low cost and risk to the government. Because Simplified Acquisition Threshold acquisitions generally 
require a lower administrative burden, they can more effectively be managed by 
procurement teams .  
Streamline and expedite approvals  for cutting-edge AI technologies  
The Federal government can accelerate adoption of cutting- edge technology by 
streamlining technology approvals, such as  FedRAMP  and agency specific ATOs, 
to improve efficiency while maintaining a strong security posture .   


As stewards of taxpayer dollars, the government has a responsibility to efficiently and 
effectively fulfill its mission obligations , and a dvances in AI technology present a 
significant opportunity  to improve efficiency and government effectiveness . However, 
the AI technology ecosystem is rapidly evolving, and agencies risk being stymied by 
their inability to keep  pace with this  acceleration. Faster technology approvals will 
enable agencies to more readily adopt and scale cutting- edge technologies,  resulting in 
continued cost savings and efficiency gains . 
Without cost effective, timely, and accessible technology approvals, Federal agencies 
may miss out on applying advancements like a gentic AI to transform government . For 
example, w hile t he FedRAMP  is an important process for standardizing cloud security 
across agencies, the process can be burdensome , which prevent s agencies and Cloud 
Service Providers (CSPs) from pursuing authorization. Common barriers to wider 
FedRAMP adoption include the cost and complexity for CSPs and agencies coupled 
with limited staff to oversee the authorization process.  
While efforts have been made in recent years to shorten the timeline and complexity, 
the AI Action Plan could include additional considerations to streamline and speed up 
the approval process without compromising security standards:  
•Regularly  review FedRAMP standards  and e mploy a more tailored set of baseline
FedRAMP security requirements to focus on the most pressing threats and eliminate
excess controls
•Employ  automation and agentic AI  where possible to streamline reviews and deliver
better continuous monitoring
•Provide opportunities for re- use of documentation or assessments between
FedRAMP and ATO where appropriate
•Allow use of AI sandboxes to test pre- authorized tools  prior to deployment in a
controlled production environment
•Increase acceptance of pre-approved external certifications
The right access to the right workers with the right skills  
The best technology is of little value if people do not use it. Providing 
government workers the specific skills and fluency they need to use AI in their unique role can help spur adoption and find hidden AI innovations.  
Unlike commercial enterprises in which leadership most often drives AI scaling, line 
employees in government stand poised to unearth many of the most transformative AI 
use cases. But to find and develop those winning use cases, workers need access to 
the appropriate tools and level of training for their roles and occupations. Access to GenAI continues to be an issue, with only 1% of government respondents in a recent 
Deloitte survey reporting that 60% of their workforce had access to GenAI tools.
xi This is 
beginning to change, albeit slowly, as more governments give their workers wider 
access to GenAI tools.  
While government access to tools continues to grow slowly, leaders can move to address the AI fluency issue immediately. Not every worker needs to know how to fine-tune a large language model or build their own chatbot. While a few users will need 
detailed knowledge on how to build AI tools, others will benefit from mid- level 


knowledge on how to select tools while others need only basic knowledge on how to 
use tools. Our research suggests that this build- choose- use paradigm for AI fluency 
varies with a worker’s occupation, level, and role. Occupations with higher exposure to 
GenAI—and higher potential  exposure—need more knowledge, to best take advantage 
of the technology’s availability. Similarly, managers likely need more AI fluency than entry -level workers who may just need to know how to use tools in a finite number of 
situat ions. Of course, those whose role involves creating AI tools to enhance current 
processes and potential new ones will need more skill than those in technical - or end-
user roles. 
These tiers of AI fluency can help the workforce quickly gain the right level of AI 
knowledge for them. This can be important when setting expectations for what the 
experience of working with AI will be like. With so much hyperbole floating around, expectations can be high for near magical experiences, and one bad experience with AI 
can stall further experimentation for a whole organization. So, making progress on AI 
depends on having the right fluency – both skills and expectations – for every  individual.  
With the right access to tools and the right skills, government workers can find new 
opportunities for AI to benefit the public at an unprecedented pace and scale.  
Win the Enduring Business Model Race 
Promote AI innovation through l everaging open-source development standards  
The race for technology and adoption is only viable if companie s have business 
models that can endure. With adversaries  racing to attract as many users as 
possible, NIST has an opportunity to accelerate American -led AI innovation by 
prioritizing open- source AI standards.  
In recent years, several open- source AI model weights have been released, including 
X.ai’s Grok and Google’s Gemma models. These models enable researchers to read, contribute to, and improve the models at the heart of AI innovation. By promoting transparency, collaboration, and accessibility, open- source AI enables government 
agencies, private sector companies, and academic researchers to innovate and build 
from each other’s advancements.  
Open- source approaches have also challenged  U.S. advantages in technology and AI 
adoption. Because open- source AI solutions generally require lower capital investment, 
they can garner users more quickly than closed- source models. That advantage has 
traditionally been offset by more modest performance of open- source models,  but 
recent AI advancements are erasing those performance gaps. This presents a 
challenge to U.S. firms, which have not only conducted the most valuable research on 
AI but also followed traditional closed- source R&D product development approaches.  
For NIST, a ffirming open-source standards to develop AI solution s would deliver several 
benefits.  First, it would improve innovation in the domestic AI marketplace. Because 
researchers could build on each other’s advancements, open- source AI would reduce 
barriers to market entry and enable new product and service innovations. Second, by 
specifying what components of AI solutions should be based on an open standard while 
protecting underlying AI model wei ghts, NIST could protect intellectual property and 


manage AI risk. Third, by lowering capital investment required to develop AI solutions, it 
could expand the global reach of U.S. models  and solutions .  
Support competitive business models  
Government can support the creation of stable, enduring business models by 
promoting the sharing of ideas across industries. 
American AI companies and technologies could benefit from practices that promote a competitive and open marketplace while ensuring a level playing field. For example, encouraging deep collaboration between government, industry, and academia can lead 
to shared best practices in research, development, and intellectual property protection. Building a framework that values innovation and transparency can help companies confidently invest in new ideas and expand their operations.  
Moreover, fostering reciprocal business relationships and embracing strategic partnerships can open new opportunities for advancing AI products and services. 
Emphasizing shared responsibility and mutual benefit can lead to practices that support 
sustainable growth while safeguarding national economic interests. By creating 
environments where innovation thrives and competitive advantages are recognized fairly, American AI firms may naturally rise to prominence and make a positive impact on the global market.  
Conclusion 
The effort undertaken by OSTP to create an AI Action Plan represents a distinct 
opportunity to chart a path for the United States to sustain and enhance America's AI 
leadership in order to promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and 
national security. Deloitte leaders in AI across multiple sectors would be pleased to 
continue the conversation and share our knowledge from experiences working to implement AI strategies on behalf of government and commercial clients.  
i Richard Fontaine and Kara Frederick, “ The Autocrat’s New Tool Kit ,” The Wall Street Journal, March 15, 2019.  
ii Bruce Chew. “ DeepSeek: The markets and the industry ,” Purdue University  Tech Diplomacy Academy, February 2025.  
iii “Weighing the Open -Source Hybrid Option for Adopting Generative AI.” Harvard Business Review Brieﬁng Paper. 2023.  
iv Joe Mariani, Pankaj Kishnani, Ahmed Alibage, “ Government’s less trodden path to scaling generative AI ,” Deloitte Insights, October 24, 
2024.  
v Karthik Ramachandran, Duncan Stewart, Kate Hardin, Gillian Crossan. “ As generative AI asks for more power, data centers seek more 
reliable, cleaner energy solutions .” Deloitte Insights. November 19, 2024.  
vi Chief Data Oﬃcer Council. “Federal data strategy: leveraging data as a strategic asset.” Oﬃce of Management and Budget , 2021  
vii Joe Mariani, William Eggers, Pankaj Kishnani. “The AI regulations that aren’t being talked about: Patterns in AI policies can expose new 
opportunities for governments to steer AI’s development.” Deloitte Insights. November 10, 2023.  
viii Richard Fontaine and Kara Frederick, “ The Autocrat’s New Tool Kit ,” The Wall Street Journal, March 15, 2019.  
ix Joe Mariani, William Eggers, Pankaj Kishnani , “The AI regulations that aren’t being talked about: Patterns in AI policies can expose new 
opportunities for governments to steer AI’s development ,” Deloitte Insights. November 10, 2023.  
x According to the annual FedRamp survey of government and industry professionals, 85% agreed that FedRAMP promotes the adoptio n 
of secure cloud services across the U .S. Government. FedRAMP, “FedRAMP FY22 annual survey recap ,” January 17, 2023.  
xi Joe Mariani, Pankaj Kishnani, Ahmed Alibage, “ Government’s less trodden path to scaling generative AI ,” Deloitte Insights, October 24, 
2024.  


