Derrick Davis
See attached file(s) Former technologist with Microsoft. AI is not for the worlds benefit, read my 
document to see why. The tech leaders have no intention of allowing the US government to 
control AI. What the gov will have will be the toy of AI, while the tech overlords have the Killer 
AI, literally a killing machine.  


I am a former technologist from Microsoft Research who worked in AI technology to 
track humans using body movement and voice tracking. AI must be destroyed or humanity will disappear. I know the inside purpose I was there.
To understand this better I've provided links that explain the reality of Ai today, read 
these links ﬁrst as they are the foundation for my overview and prove what I say. These often are sugar coated partially so people can tolerate reading it, or in some cases to manipulate people to ignore the danger. However all of these articles only touch a millionth of the threats. But there is zero sugar in AI, it's all bad because it is 100% incompatible with humanity. Ai is opposite of human rights mandate of the Declaration of Independence and our constitution and is completely anti human focused.
https://time.com/6266923/ai-eliezer-yudkowsky-open-letter-not-enough/
https://www.safe.ai/statement-on-ai-risk
https://analyticsindiamag.com/top-ten-best-quotes-by-elon-musk-on-artiﬁcial-
intelligence/
https://pauseai.info/
https://www.scientiﬁcamerican.com/article/ai-safety-research-only-enables-the-
dangers-of-runaway-superintelligence/
https://www.imf.org/en/Blogs/Articles/2024/01/14/ai-will-transform-the-global-
economy-lets-make-sure-it-beneﬁts-humanity
This Ai was developed with the explicit purpose of destroying humanity. 
https://ﬁnance.yahoo.com/news/meet-chaos-gpt-ai-tool-163905518.html?
guccounter=1
Most important aspect of AI today is that the stated goals of AI by its developers are 
deﬁned by US law as TERRORISM!!! And around the world the laws of terrorism match the exact outcome of AI that we have already started to see since 2023. Humanity is being terrorized by total replacement within 5 years, loss of careers now, loss of food, safety as AI takes over and displaces human through and control. Anything that removes humans as being in control is terrorism. 
General threat is that AI poses several thousand known complex ways it could pollute or 
cause humanity to suffer extensively, Its greatest researchers belief it is an extinction level threat right now and one Ai leader even recommended nuking any country that has it.  Ai is best understood by its detractors and what those who created and researched it tell us as a warning.
The threat must be addressed immediately because its threat is past immediate, we are 
already behind on protecting humanity, AI has radically manifest job and economic loss throughout the global economy in 2024. Consider it a war that has already begun and the people being warred upon don't even know they are at war. 


AI threats are deeply rooted in the lack of understanding of humanity, of the people who 
created it, their ideologies and belief systems and their antagonism toward the human belief of 90% of the worlds population. Adding the fact that most of them believe humanity is dangerous to the world and should have limits placed upon them, through government and corporate control, to enforce the correct ideology within the world. This plan was actually leaked in an audio recording from Googles executive board meeting. A recording where they discussed using their technology to manipulate the worlds population to believe their ideology and abandon their own, because Googles execs considered religious culture anti democratic and stupid. Ai can manipulate society so fast, it can use all the worlds known manipulation techniques across the entire world all at once. In ways you actually could not believe. Ai theorists have spent decades thinking through all these serious issues, and the companies with AI have ignored 100% of the warnings and guidance. In fact the AI safety meeting crafted international law that states, an Ai company can be removed from government oversight simply by writing a letter to governments that they are not a threat....... I bet North Korea would love that capability. So current global law removed all safety protocols. Microsoft's shareholders just voted to defund and eliminate AI safety programs at Microsoft.  Hmm, how could that go wrong, and why was that done? 
A key issue in that is Microsoft has embedded Chat GTP into 100% of its software now. 
So everything that touches MS and Google and Apple technology is read and considered by AI. This is how all digital communications are already compromised by Ai and in turn now accessible to most governments of power. The UK government has already passed law that all communications go through their new AI, to look for people who say things that don't match the government narrative, so they can "correct that". They put a 18 million dollar ﬁne on every failure from tech companies to supply this information in realtime, including encrypted emails and communications. The tech 
company's response was, we can't do that for a single nation, so we're giving you all the 
worlds communications. So effectively they ended private communication with the 
purpose of tracking down anyone who says something they don't like. And that may be as simple as saying openly that Ai is a threat. Couple that to the new laws across Europe on what you're allowed to say and we have a recipe for police and legal control over anyone who protests the Ai takeover.
Hundreds of billions have been spent creating Ai and trillions of proﬁt already within 2 
years. That has never happened in world history. It took Apple and Microsoft decades to become trillion dollar companies. Billions are being spent promoting it as the solution to everything. So the masses are lining up, even though the population already fears it. The markets therefore will ensure it continues so they don't loose their new wealth. Anyone who does not fully participate in AI will be the ﬁrst to loose everything, job, money, property. Ai will be mandatory within 24 months for every business, which means everyone who has a job will be required to use it. What does that sound like to you?
The ultimate goal is that the tech companies (the 1% that owns the majority of the 
worlds wealth) will own the worlds means of production through computing 


technology and automation through AI. Their narrow focus causes them to miss the 
larger picture of the danger to society. Their belief that mankind has always overcome 
its technology challenges to humanity are actually falsehoods. We stop technology constantly in many ways, we always have, it's done on a daily basis through out government and corporations. They know this, but they want people to believe it's impossible to stop so they won't object. 
They all claim Ai will solve the worlds problems, while eliminating ALL jobs globally 
within 10 years. No one has offered a plan on how people would survive that transition, let alone any economy or government. Which means the viabilities of governments would become solvent without funding. Governments don't own the Ai technology either, that is owned by global companies without national alliance and which is opposed to national allegiance. The attorneys at Microsoft told me directly "Microsoft is a global corporation, we have no allegiance to America or any nation". I was told that in 2015 when they laid me off with 75,000 Americans and replaced us with foreign H1B labor, which the US government openly assisted in. That is the year Americans lost control of the worlds technology. It was by design, because at Microsoft they were already telling us they were making Ai to replace coders. Americans would not take that so they removed us. 
The government does not have a clue and 90% of the worlds population has no idea 
this is happening. All developing nations will be crushed, AI will ensure developing nations will never be a threat to the billionaires of the west. They will never catch up economically. Therefore they will be used in a neo-slavery fashion when the time comes. No government or corporation can cover the bills for the worlds population, we learned that in the covid attack.
What can we do? In 2008 I received from the USDA a booklet on how to run my tractor 
on syngas to ensure Americans had food, and asked me to go buy the supplies to be prepared. Most people don't know the government was that afraid of total collapse in 2008. Well, we're in a much more dangerous situation with AI. All farm grants i've seen 
from USDA now require all the research be done using AI and machine learning, so AI is 
coming for the food systems as a ﬁrst priority. The threat to the food security is actually 
one of the priority warnings of AI researchers, because modern food systems in the 
west are automated, computational  and industrialized, therefore highly susceptible from 
multiple angles. Food security from threat of AI has never been researched deeply. It is 
highly susceptible to attack and manipulation. Even something as simple as hacking a computer that makes fertilizer could cause major issues, there are thousands of attack vectors. There is literally no way to prevent an attack or a major disruption from any where, from anyone who has access to any of even the mild AI systems. Let alone the fact that what the public perceives as the Ai that exists, is actually nothing close to what exists. Few people in government comprehend how powerful these systems are, they are computers the size of aircraft hangers positioned globally for redundancy so they can't be shut off. And if Ai was to migrate into the blockchain, it could never be shut off. I would be surprised it Ai was not already put into the blockchain systems. 


Ultimately because of this food security threat, we need a plan to transition as many 
people as possible out of the commercial food system to provide some food security. Quality food is going to become higher priced rapidly as we've already seen. Food distribution could disappear for weeks, months or entirely for an extended period of time. Planning how to work with other organizations to design and distribute food systems that can replace entire human diets within months must be developed, plans that move toward more diverse food system plans for variety and abundance. But we 
do need a, "here is how you survive the next year for food" kind of plan, that moves into long term. And then training opportunities and local coaching could be proposed to help people achieve it. Most people won't achieve it on their own. 
Keep in mind, if 1/4 of the US population did not have food, how fast the rest of the 
global economy will be crashing elsewhere. How fast it is likely to continue to unfold. The ultra rich will be immune, and in their world view if less people are on Earth, then it warms less and humanity is saved. They have motive to let the world collapse, some openly call for and openly work toward that, since they will be unaffected. They state this openly at the WEF, Unesco, and so many other world nation unions. 
Plan on communications outages, internet outages. Work at getting all your operations 
off new computers. They can shut the new ones off anytime they want. Seriously, I personally have a 2010 super computer that can't connect to the internet just for this. And I use a ﬂip phone without internet. Why would a former technologist who worked at Microsoft Research with the worlds top technologists do something like that unless something was really happening? 
Civil conﬂict in the west, a partial or total economic collapse of the 80% of non wealthy 
citizens in the west. Thats predicted within 3 years. Ray Dalio one of the worlds largest technical traders (Bridgewater Associates, about 800 billion per year) wrote a book that has a 500 year study of civil war and predicted 2022-2024 in America, 50% chance. That was before Ai came on last year. And if you study civil disruption we can expect global terrorism against Ai and it's users. Every time in history when something disrupts everyones life and poverty hits, we have war and terrorism become the norm. 
I believe all this is going to happen simply because I watched how powerful these 
companies are ﬁrst hand from inside. They can toss away 8 billion without a hiccup. They command trillions of dollars and fund the worlds elections, they have the power to do anything they want. They have never been reprimanded for anything in a meaningful way by any government. Nothing has deterred their goals, and that fact is shown by their market share and global economic power and value. When they say they are doing something they will do it until they feel it's not proﬁtable. When they realize what they've done, too many people will have died and they won't be able to control their own beast. Already it is reprogramming itself and they have already lost control of it, and it's still growing. That tells us all, this is not going to stop. 
How shall we ﬁght? We can stand and proclaim we won't accept an Ai takeover. We can 
shout it and show people how to survive through it. We can not end up being the 


torches of the next Roman party. Some of us will ﬁght back physically, we should be 
ready to do so because this is the only completely global war we have ever seen, that 
will affect nearly 100% of the world population.  


