From: Djaz Zulida
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Sunday, March 16, 2025 1:08:38 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Good evening
I am writing to submit a comment regarding Executive Order 14179 and the AI Action Plan.  
The EO is a mistake and the action plan that you develop will be dangerously skewed in favorof large companies at the expense of artists, writers, musicians, and creators of all kinds. Largecompanies should not have carte blanche to take the creative output of others and sell it as partof AI products. That will diminish the livelihoods of thousands, if not millions, of artists andthen will negatively impact small businesses and the economy in general.
 
We also know that AI processing is energy-intensive and negatively impacts the environment.Damaging the environment, causing droughts and power outages in order to run the serverswill also cause damage to the economy at all levels — imagine the stores that can’t operatewithout sufficient power, imagine the family farms that fail if all the water is rerouted to coolservers instead of hydrate crops.
 
The EO mentions that we must have AI systems free from ideological bias, but algorithms arealready biased. Humans wrote the code and humans are biased. We need more guardrails andimprovements to ensure bigotry and 
 bias do not proliferate in the code that is written. Books
like Race After Technology and others detail the racism that is present in so many aspects ofour technological world. There are many people who have studied this issue at respecteduniversities and institutions and they have come to the same conclusion — bias is present intechnology and AI.
 
The AI Action Plan could be potentially successful, but in order for that to be the case, youwill need to reject fears around the gender spectrum and racial diversity and embrace theconcept of consent. Having creators opt in to share materials with AI is much more positivethan creators discovering that their art has been scraped without their knowledge orpermission. Improving the code and fixing areas where bias against people of color, women,LGBTQ+ folks, older people, and disabled people appear will strengthen the public’s faith inthis initiative.
 
If the goal of this administration shifts to wanting make the US better for all 300+ million ofus and not just for a handful of billionaires, this push for AI planning could be the start of areasonable, humane, consent-based model that would guide other countries towardsresponsible and effective AI adoption. However, if only CEOs have a voice and the onlyvalues are short-term gains and profit, then this will only alienate and negatively impact ourcountry.
 
This plan must benefit the many, not just the few, or it isn’t a plan at all, it’s just theft anddestruction.
 
Thank you  


DF Zulida
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


