1 
Davidson Kempner Capital Management, LP 
Comments on the Request for Information on the Development of 
an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
I. Executive Summary
Davidson Kempner Capital Management, LP (“Davidson Kempner” or “DKCM”)
appreciates the opportunity to provide its comments in response to the Request for Information on 
the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan issued by the Networking and 
Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office 
(NCO) on behalf of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), regarding priority 
actions that should be included in that AI Action Plan. DKCM is a global investment management 
firm headquartered in New York, with a significant investment in Portuguese-based Start Campus, 
a company developing the largest AI-scale data center campus in Europe – the entire campus is 
ready-to-build and primarily targeting customers headquartered in U.S. and European markets.
DKCM supports the United States’ efforts to address national security concerns with 
respect to exports of advanced computing items for use in data centers abroad. However, DKCM 
is concerned that the disparate treatment of Portugal vis-à-vis other European countries under the 
Framework for Artificial Intelligence Diffusion (AI Diffusion Rule),1 published by the U.S. 
Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) at the end of the prior 
administration, will unnecessarily restrict U.S. companies’ ability to locate their advanced compute 
capacity in Portugal – a country that provides an otherwise ideal environment and secure location 
for facilitating U.S. companies’ AI-related initiatives while protecting U.S. national security 
interests. 
Portugal’s status as a “Tier 2” country, which has a more restrictive licensing regime under 
the AI Diffusion Rule for advanced computing integrated circuits (ICs) for data center uses,2 is 
inconsistent with the Trump Administration’s stated policy objectives of eliminating unnecessarily 
burdensome requirements for companies developing and deploying AI that would stifle private 
sector innovation and threaten American technological leadership. Those restrictions are also 
inconsistent with the standards set forth in the Export Control Reform Act (ECRA), 50 U.S.C. §§ 
4801-4852, which provided the authority under which the AI Diffusion Rule was issued3 and which 
dictates that controls be narrowly tailored to avoid negatively affecting U.S. leadership and 
competitiveness in science, technology, engineering and manufacturing. In crafting the AI Action 
Plan, DKCM encourages OSTP to consider that U.S. national security interests would be better 
1 Framework for Artificial Intelligence Diffusion, 90 Fed. Reg. 4544 (Jan. 15, 2025). 
2 See, e.g., 15 C.F.R. §§ 742.6, 740.27. 
3 Export Control Reform Act of 2018, Pub. L. No. 115-232, 132 Stat. 1639 (2018). 


2 
served by revising and adding Portugal to the existing list of “Tier 1” countries (countries under 
the rule which benefit from more permissive licensing for advanced computing ICs and are 
currently listed in supplement no. 5 to part 740 of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) 
(15 C.F.R. Parts 730 – 774)).
The AI Diffusion Rule was published in the last week of the prior presidential 
administration without any identified stakeholder engagement. We understand that the decision of 
which countries to include in Tier 1 was highly political and decided at the highest levels of the 
U.S. government. There is no explanation provided for why Portugal was not included in Tier 1. 
Leaving Portugal out of Tier 1 will pose a significant disadvantage for U.S.-owned 
and controlled data centers and will deprive U.S. companies of a safe, secure location to house 
their advanced compute capacity.  Instead of strengthening U.S. supply chains, it would cut off 
U.S. goods and services from global large-scale data center projects. Moreover, it undermines U.S. 
economic growth, hinders job creation, and weakens U.S. leadership in AI and influence in key 
global markets. Ultimately, these burdensome restrictions on Portugal, and by extension, Start 
Campus, will be detrimental to U.S. national security and technology leadership, particularly in 
the AI sector. Overall, the tiered system will undermine U.S. leadership in the sector by cutting off 
U.S. goods and services from global large-scale data center projects.
Regardless of whether the Trump administration maintains the tiered system, or adopts an 
alternative regulatory model, Portugal is integral to U.S. leadership in AI with a geographically 
secure location to house data centers, safeguards against diversion and misuse of advanced 
models, and direct access to the U.S. via secure subsea cables .
Our comments outline why Portugal should be treated like current Tier 1 European 
countries under the AI Diffusion Rule. This could be accomplished by: (i) moving Portugal 
from Tier 2 to Tier 1; (ii) removing the tiered system and providing a more permissive 
licensing regime for all Country Group A:5 countries -- including all European Union (EU) 
Member States, without country-specific caps and geographic allocation restrictions; or (iii) 
revising the current Tier 1 and Tier 2 country grouping to align with the Trump 
Administration’s foreign policy and national security objectives, including a more permissive 
licensing structure for all EU Member States.
II. Background
A. Introduction to Davidson Kempner
DKCM is a U.S.-headquartered global investment management firm with over 40 years of 
experience and a focus on fundamental investing with a multi-strategy approach. The firm manages 
approximately $35 billion in assets and employs more than 500 professionals across seven offices 
worldwide, including its headquarters in New York.4
4 Numbers as of January 1, 2025; https://www.davidsonkempner.com/approach


3 
A significant portion of DKCM’s capital is long-term, reflecting the firm’s commitment to 
sustainable growth, and includes investment from U.S.-based pension funds, endowments, 
investment trusts, funds of funds, and individuals. Its diversified and flexible investment platform 
is supported by a four-decade track record of executing complex transactions. DKCM has 
developed market-leading platforms from early-stage or de novo positions, particularly in the 
energy, digital transformation, and infrastructure sectors.
DKCM has been actively investing in the U.S. since its inception in 1983. The firm has 
over 300 employees in New York and Philadelphia and $21 billion capital invested in the U.S.5
DKCM has demonstrated a strong commitment to supporting U.S. economic growth, innovation 
and competitiveness through strategic investments across various sectors.
B. Davidson Kempner in Portugal
DKCM is one of the largest foreign financial investors in Portugal and has been invested 
in the country since 2019. Its track record includes the largest AI-scale data center campus in 
Europe – Start Campus. 
Backed by DKCM, Start Campus’ SINES data center (the “SINES DC”) is set to become 
Europe’s largest and most sustainable data center campus, redefining the future of global digital 
infrastructure. The total investment is expected to reach c. $40 billion, of which c. $9+ billion will 
be applied to construction and development by Start Campus and c. $30 billion will be applied to 
advanced computing ICs and equipment installed in the SINES DC by Start Campus’ customers – 
Start Campus, backed by DKCM, is primarily targeting customers headquartered in the 
U.S. and Tier 1 European markets . The campus’ first building has been operational since 
October 2024 and is already home to AI/high-performance computing workloads. Start Campus is 
preparing to break ground on its second building in 2025, and four additional buildings will be 
delivered by 2030, for a total IT capacity of the campus of 1.2 GW.
III. Trump Administration AI Policy, AI Diffusion Rule Policy, and Related Statutory
Authority
On January 23, 2025, President Trump took action to “Remove Barriers to American
Leadership in Artificial Intelligence”, with the policy objective “to sustain and enhance America’s 
global AI dominance in order to promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and 
national security.”6 This policy objective recognized that “the United States has long been at the 
forefront of artificial intelligence (AI) innovation, driven by the strength of our free markets, 
world-class research institutions, and entrepreneurial spirit.” As further explained in its 
accompanying White House “Fact Sheet”, that presidential action was taken in an effort to 
eliminate “unnecessarily burdensome requirements for companies developing and deploying AI 
that would stifle private sector innovation and threaten American technological leadership.”7.
5 Company information as of December 31, 2024.
6 Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence, Exec. Order No. 14179 (2025). 
7 White House Fact Sheet: President Donald J. Trump Takes Action to Enhance America’s AI Leadership, January 23, 2025. 


4 
On February 6, 2025, on behalf of OSTP, the NITRD NCO issued a request for information 
(RFI) from all interested parties on the Development of an AI Action Plan (the Plan).8 The Plan, 
as directed by the above-referenced Presidential Executive Order, is intended to “define the priority 
policy actions needed to sustain and enhance America's AI dominance, and to ensure that 
unnecessarily burdensome requirements do not hamper private sector AI innovation.” This RFI 
likewise emphasized the Trump Administration’s effort to eliminate regulation that “hampered the 
private sector’s ability to innovate in AI by imposing burdensome government requirements 
restricting private sector AI development and deployment.”
The RFI sought input on the highest priority policy actions that should be in the new AI 
Action Plan, including comments on any relevant AI policy topic, including but not limited to 
“hardware and chips, data centers,” and “export controls”, among other topics, with respondents 
encouraged to suggest concrete AI policy actions needed to address the topics raised. Here, DKCM 
proposes revisions to the AI Diffusion Rule to address “burdensome requirements” that “hamper 
private sector AI innovation” needed to “sustain and enhance America’s AI dominance.” 
ECRA is the authority under which BIS issued the AI Diffusion Rule, and it requires the 
impact of implementation of new regulations on U.S. science and technology leadership to be 
evaluated and regulations to be tailored to avoid negatively impacting such leadership. 
Similar to the Presidential Executive Order, ECRA § 4811(3) recognizes that “the national 
security of the United States requires that the United States maintain its leadership in the science, 
technology, engineering, and manufacturing sectors, including foundational technology that is 
essential to innovation. Such leadership requires that United States persons are competitive in 
global markets.” Section 4811(3) further requires that, “the impact of the implementation of this 
subchapter on such leadership and competitiveness must be evaluated on an ongoing basis and 
applied in imposing controls under sections 4812 and 4813 of this title to avoid negatively 
affecting such leadership .” (emphasis added).
In other words, all regulations implemented under ECRA authority must involve an 
evaluation of the impact of U.S. leadership and competitiveness in science, technology, 
engineering, and manufacturing and must implement tailored controls that avoid negatively 
affecting such leadership.
Additionally, the AI Diffusion Rule, which implemented the tiered country system, was 
intended to accomplish the following policy objectives:
Reduce Diversion to Macau and Country Group D:5.  “This rule details a multi-part
control structure aiming to both reduce the risk that countries of concern (Country Group
D:5 and Macau) obtain the most advanced AI models and enable validated entities to access
the benefits of those models, while protecting national security.” In addition to the creation
of Tier 1 and 2 described above, Country Group D:5 and Macau were placed in the most
restrictive regulatory regime (“Tier 3”) under the AI Diffusion Rule.
8 Request for Information on Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan, 90 Fed. Reg. 4544 (Jan. 15, 2025).


5 
Implement Tailored Controls that Continue to Enable Economically and Socially
Beneficial Uses of Advanced AI Models and Maintain U.S. Technological Leadership.
“BIS determined that U.S. national security and foreign policy require the regulation of the
global diffusion of advanced AI models. However, such controls must be tailored to enable
economically and socially beneficial uses of advanced AI models and to maintain U.S.
technological leadership.”
Facilitate International AI Development in a Way That Minimizes Risk to National
Security. “[D]ata centers play a vital role in global AI development, and the United States
is committed to facilitating international AI development in a way that minimizes risk to
national security.”
Facilitate Transactions That Pose a Low Risk of Diversion or Would Otherwise
Advance U.S. National Security or Foreign Policy Interests. “First, this rule creates an
exception in § 740.27 for all tran sactio ns involving certain  types o f end users in certain
low-r isk destinations. Specifically, these are destinations in which:
(1) the government has implemented measures to prevent diversion of advanced
technologies, and
(2) there is an ecosystem that will enable and encourage firms to use advanced AI
models to advance the common national security and foreign policy interests of the
United States and its allies and partners.”
As outlined further in Section IV – VI below, the policy objectives of the Presidential 
Executive Order and the AI Diffusion Rule itself, and its enabling statutory authority, will 
be better achieved by inclusion of Portugal in Tier 1, than in Tier 2. In particular, the below 
discussion addresses the negative effects on U.S. leadership and competitiveness in science, 
technology, engineering, and manufacturing – particularly with respect to America’s global AI 
dominance – that arise from Portugal’s inclusion in Tier 2, instead of Tier 1.
IV. Comment 1: The United States’ Ability to Fully Pursue and Benefit from AI-Related
Initiatives Will Be Negatively Impacted by Portugal’s Status as a Tier 2 Country, as
It Will Severely Affect Data Center Capacity Available to U.S.-Headquartered AI-
Related Companies.
A. The Inclusion of Portugal in Tier 2 Imposes Barriers to Expansion for U.S.
AI Companies, Thereby Depriving Them of a Safe, Secure Location for
Housing Their Growing Advanced Computing Needs.
As AI demand accelerates, AI industry leaders require global capacity at scale and speed. 
SINES DC is one of the few data center campuses worldwide – and one of the only ones in Europe 
– that can meet these substantial requirements today, as it stands out as one of the most ready-to-
build data center projects in development.
DKCM’s SINES DC is not the sole data center in Portugal. All other AI-focused data 
centers in Portugal are also U.S.-owned or U.S. controlled. Collectively, the Portuguese data center 
industry is expected to bring c. 1.5 GW of IT capacity online by 2030, catering primarily to 
customers headquartered in the U.S. and Tier 1 European countries.


6 
Due to extended lead times required for data center development, AI companies are 
expected to increasingly rely on co-location facilities (such as those of Start Campus) to scale their 
AI capacity. The tech industry is projected to invest over $200 billion in AI infrastructure annually 
by 2028,9 and this investment will not be limited solely to hyperscaler-owned data centers. 
Infrastructure-light AI players, such as cloud service providers (“CSPs”) and graphics processing 
unit (GPU)-as-a-Service (“GPUaaS”) firms, will continue to depend on third-party AI 
infrastructure to deploy their advanced computing ICs efficiently. This trend highlights the shift 
toward leveraging external data center resources, such as data center developers, to meet the 
rapidly expanding needs of the AI sector. 
Furthermore, the emergence of new and less-constrained data center locations is critical to 
meet this AI demand in a timely manner. Due to market saturation, power-constraints and 
prohibitive power costs to operate in traditional markets and to match the pace of AI deployments 
required by U.S. companies, an increasing number of data center development is done outside 
traditional data center markets where land, power and connectivity are available. For this reason, 
Portugal is an ideal location for data center development. 
However, by restricting exports of critical AI components to Tier 2 countries or imposing 
limitations on their availability in those countries, like Portugal, the AI Diffusion Rule creates 
significant constraints and uncertainty for U.S. AI-related companies by restricting their ability to 
secure the necessary third-party infrastructure at scale, in a timely manner, and in locations best 
suited for their deployments. By facing barriers to access strategically located and ready-to-deploy 
infrastructure, this will not only hinder their global expansion plans but also encourage them to 
consider potentially less optimal jurisdictions and facilities for their operations. Similarly, these 
barriers may also negatively affect the growth of newer U.S. AI players, such as neo-clouds and 
GPUaaS companies, which require scalable, high-speed solutions that align with their vision, fast-
paced growth and market demands. 
B. The Inclusion of Portugal in Tier 2 Presents Unintended Consequences for
DKCM-Owned Start Campus, Harming Both Current and Future U.S.
Investment in AI-Related Projects.
DKCM’s SINES DC campus will be AI-ready and purpose-built to meet the growing 
demand for scalable, high-density infrastructure solutions in a strategic and secure location – 
Portugal. 
As a data center developer headquartered in a Tier 2 country but primarily serving 
customers headquartered in the U.S. and Tier 1 countries, Start Campus’s potential customers 
would face substantial restrictions, including limitations on the numbers and type of advanced 
computing ICs that can be deployed in Start Campus’ facilities and prohibitions on the 
development of AI models. 
9 IDC, By 2028, IDC Forecasts AI Spending to Surpass $500 Billion, Accounting for 20% of the Total Market Spending (Jan. 14, 
2021), https://www.idc.com/getdoc.jsp?containerId=prUS52758624. 


7 
In turn, these restrictions would also indirectly harm U.S. companies like DKCM with 
significant existing and planned investment in Start Campus, as well as U.S. suppliers, as they 
dissuade potential customers from partnering with Start Campus.
1. Start Campus’ Inability to Leverage Its Main Differentiators in the
Market May Weaken Its U.S. AI Customers’ Edge in Global AI
Development.
Start Campus’ competitive edge lies in the scale of its campus and its time-to-market – two 
differentiators that are fundamentally at odds with the constraints imposed on Tier 2 countries 
under the AI Diffusion Rule. 
U.S. AI-related companies have large and growing deployment requirements, as evidenced 
by NVIDIA’s recent results, which highlight a 142% year-on-year growth in data center revenue 
for fiscal year 2025, and highlight that leading U.S. technology companies are deploying advanced 
computing ICs in “cloud regions around the world to meet surging customer demand for AI”.10
Start Campus’ SINES DC is designed and permitted to host c. 1,150,000 H100-equivalent 
advanced computing ICs, and offers the ability for its customers to scale over time within a single 
location. The 50,000-advanced computing IC-equivalent limit imposed under the standard export 
license is entirely unworkable, as it accounts for less than 5% of the advanced compute capacity 
that the Start Campus facility alone is designed to support.
Furthermore, SINES DC’s ready-to-build status, and phased deployment of five additional 
buildings between 2025 and 2030, means that it will be able to accommodate these large quantities 
of advanced compute at a speed unmatched by most data center facilities worldwide. With the 
investment cycle for AI capacity by Start Campus’ customers typically being two years, and 
customers commitments being typically secured 27–30 months before a building becomes 
operational, Start Campus estimates that 80% of its total capacity (c. 900,000 advanced computing 
ICs) should already be contracted by the end of 2027.11
However, the restrictions mean that U.S. AI-related companies cannot benefit from Start 
Campus’ scale and time-to-market advantages – this can hinder their growth and edge in global AI 
development. In turn, this will also significantly harm DKCM-owned Start Campus’ business: it 
not only risks losing opportunities in the current investment cycle, but if Start Campus cannot 
secure commitments from its customers for capacity now, it also risks missing the opportunity of 
contracting the full campus altogether, as clients will favor geographies where they are already 
established for the next investment cycle.
10 “NVIDIA Announces Financial Results for Fourth Quarter and Fiscal 2025.” NVIDIA News , February 26, 2025. 
https://nvidianews.nvidia.com/news/nvidia-announces-financial-results-for-fourth-quarter-and-fiscal-2025  
11 This is the end of the period covered by the existing AI Diffusion Rule caps on total processing performance (TPP). BIS has 
not identified specific TPP allocations after such date based on stated considerations with respect to the evolving nature of 
national security requirements, the geopolitical landscape, and the AI industry. 


8 
2. There Are No License Exceptions Available Under the AI Diffusion
Rule That Are Compatible with Capacity Deployments by U.S.
Customers in Start Campus’ Data Center, Thereby Negatively
Impacting U.S. AI Companies’ Ability to Deploy in Critical
Infrastructure at Scale.
As the owners of the advanced computing ICs, Start Campus’ customers bear the burden 
of applying for export licenses or utilizing license exceptions. However, all potential license 
exceptions for advanced computing ICs under the AI Diffusion Rule are incompatible with the 
requirements of Start Campus’ customers and Start Campus’ business model, which is focused on 
large AI deployments. Therefore, absent moving Portugal into Tier 1, U.S. companies will by 
stymied in their ability to invest and scale their AI capacity in safe and secure data center 
infrastructure in Portugal. 
The Universal Validated End User (UVEU) status does not provide the necessary comfort 
to those companies it is targeted at. This program (which could allow Start Campus’ customers to 
deploy up to 7% of their global compute capacity in Portugal) theoretically provides some 
flexibility, however, in practice, it fails to reassure U.S. AI customers. Companies that are eligible 
for UVEU status may be reluctant to move forward with expansion and deployment plans, citing 
concerns over Tier 2 designations, including that of Portugal. This is evident in public statements 
from major industry players, such as Microsoft, which has explicitly stated in an open letter dated 
February 27, 2025, that the country tiering is impacting its business decisions.12
Additionally, while UVEU status may be suitable for large corporations with 
geographically diversified operations, it is not an effective model for the majority of U.S. 
companies operating in the AI space that could be potential customers of Start Campus. For 
example, for a U.S.-based company with a smaller advanced computing IC inventory than a 
hyperscaler and with no prior international footprint, the 7% cap under the UVEU status means 
that they cannot consider Portugal or any Tier 2 country as their “launchpad” for large and 
ambitious global operations. This limits U.S. AI companies’ ability to assert global dominance. 
The National Validated End User (NVEU) status is also not an alternative that fully 
alleviates concerns for Start Campus’ customers, as it presents additional roadblocks. The NVEU 
status provides for intergovernmental agreements to be in place before any Start Campus’ customer 
receives NVEU status, yet there is no transparency around these assurances, nor can Start Campus 
control their implementation. In addition, the c. 320,000-advanced computing IC cap under this 
status accounts for less than 30% of SINES DC’s total capacity. Furthermore, these limits reach 
their maximum level in Q1’27 before being held flat for the remainder of 2027 and there is no 
guidance on limits beyond 2027, potentially discouraging long-term commitments from customers 
and preventing them from strategically planning for scalable growth within a single location. This 
uncertainty severely limits the U.S. AI companies’ ability to plan and secure their deployments, 
which is crucial for them to gain an edge in the global AI race. 
12 Microsoft, Trump Administration's Role in the Global AI Race (Feb. 27, 2025), https://blogs.microsoft.com/on-the-
issues/2025/02/27/trump-administration-ai-global-race.  


9 
Other license exceptions contemplated by the AI Diffusion Rule for U.S. companies 
looking to locate their advanced compute capacity in Portugal do not apply for the workloads and 
type of facility that U.S. AI companies seek, and that Start Campus is designed for. For example, 
License Exception Low Processing Performance (LPP)13 is irrelevant for U.S. AI companies 
looking to deploy at Start Campus, given the sheer scale of the SINES DC campus. Exceptions 
related to less powerful ICs (e.g., License Exceptions Notified Advanced Computing (NAC), and 
Advanced Computing Authorized (ACA))14 are also not viable, as all of Start Campus’ discussions 
with potential customers center around the deployment of advanced computing ICs. 
As such, none of the licence exceptions contemplated by the AI Diffusion Rule seem to 
provide the right pathways to U.S. AI companies to assert and expand their global AI dominance 
in facilities such as SINES DC. 
3. Regulatory Complexity and Business Perception Are Major
Deterrents for U.S. Customers to House Their Advanced Computing
ICs in Start Campus’ Data Center, Which Otherwise Provides an
Ideal Location to Host U.S. Advanced Compute Capacity.
The need to secure a UVEU or NVEU authorization or a license to send larger quantities 
of advanced computing ICs to Portugal, when no such effort is required for Tier 1 locations, creates 
a fundamental disincentive. As Start Campus does not own the advanced computing ICs, it cannot 
apply for UVEU or NVEU authorization itself; this responsibility therefore falls on its customers, 
the U.S. AI companies. Multiple AI companies have consistently expressed that navigating this 
complexity is not worth the effort when they can deploy in Tier 1 markets without these regulatory 
burdens. This sentiment has been confirmed in direct feedback from prospective customers.
Based on all the above, the AI Diffusion Rule, as currently structured, presents substantial 
challenges for DKCM’s Start Campus as the infrastructure provider for advanced compute 
capacity and the related needs of U.S. companies to facilitate their AI-related initiatives in a secure 
location. The standard export license is wholly inadequate, while the available license exceptions 
and VEU program introduce complexity, uncertainty, and business risks that deter customers from 
committing to this site. As a result, Portugal’s Tier 2 classification is not just a theoretical hurdle – 
it has a tangible, negative impact on Start Campus’ ability to attract clients and address their 
demand despite the suitability of its offer to their needs. 
For the United States to remain competitive in the AI industry, the AI Diffusion Rule must 
accommodate high-scale deployments in new markets which present all the features and secure 
environments that the leading U.S. AI companies seek, and ensure that companies like Start 
Campus can support the growing demand for AI infrastructure without artificial constraints.
13 15 C.F.R § 740.29. 
14 15 C.F.R. § 740.8. 


10 
V. Comment 2: Leaving Portugal Out of Tier 1 Will Hinder U.S. Growth in the AI Sector,
Including Inhibiting U.S. Supply Chains and U.S. Job Creation.
Data centers are critical infrastructure that drive significant economic growth in the United
States by creating jobs and fostering innovation – even when the data centers themselves are 
located outside the United States.
As highlighted in Microsoft’s open letter referenced above, AI export restrictions affect far 
more than the advanced computing IC industry. U.S. companies are deeply involved in the 
development of both their own and third-party data center infrastructure worldwide, which 
underpins the operations of all leading U.S. AI companies. This global expansion benefits U.S. 
businesses, including manufacturers of data center equipment and service providers in design, 
engineering, and construction.
Portugal and SINES DC is no exception: with c. $40 billion of planned investment, U.S. 
companies will be instrumental to DKCM’s Start Campus and the broader US-backed data center 
ecosystem in Portugal.
Start Campus’ development activities, expected to total c. $9+ billion, involve a broad 
range of U.S. consultants, contractors, and service providers that bring their unparalleled AI 
expertise. Portugal’s data center industry, including SINES DC, will also heavily rely on U.S. 
suppliers for the mechanical and electrical equipment. The development of Start Campus’ project 
has already unlocked noteworthy business opportunities for U.S. companies and their U.S. teams 
in Portugal. In addition to business opportunities, involvement from U.S. firms in the design and 
construction of data centers helps ensure that international industry standards are shaped in 
alignment with U.S. benchmarks. 
By supporting the deployment of c. 1,150,000 H100s-equivalent GPUs by its customers, 
Start Campus will also indirectly support the activities of U.S.-based advanced computing IC 
manufacturers, generating an estimated c. $30 billion of revenues for these companies and 
supporting U.S. job creation. As NVIDIA stated in their open letter dated January 13, 202515: 
“Built on American technology, the adoption of AI around the world fuels growth and opportunity 
for industries at home and abroad.” 
However, restricting exports of advanced computing ICs will have a direct and widespread 
impact on U.S. supply chains, cutting off U.S. manufacturers, engineers, and technology providers 
from global large-scale data center projects. By limiting international demand for advanced 
compute capacity and related infrastructure, these restrictions risk slowing innovation and 
diminishing U.S. leadership in AI.
Moreover, the approach outlined in the AI Diffusion Rule appears to contradict the Trump 
Administration’s call for European companies to increase their purchases of U.S. goods and 
services. Instead of increasing U.S. exports, overly restrictive export controls on Portugal would 
15 NVIDIA, Statement on the Biden Administration’s Misguided ‘AI Diffusion’ Rule (2025), 
https://blogs.nvidia.com/blog/2025/02/statement-biden-administration-ai-diffusion-rule/. 


11 
undermine economic growth, hinder job creation, and weaken U.S. influence in that key global 
market without advancing U.S. national security interests.
VI. Comment 3: The U.S. AI Industry Can Benefit from Portugal’s and Start Campus’
Measures to Prevent Diversion of Advanced Technologies and Foster a Secure
Ecosystem for Advanced AI Models. Leaving Portugal Out of Tier 1 Unnecessarily
Restricts U.S. Industry’s Ability to Take Advantage of This.
In light of U.S. national security concerns associated with advanced computing ICs, U.S.
companies are looking to invest in and locate data center infrastructure in countries that 
implement similar export control regulations and frameworks to those in the United States and 
countries with robust cybersecurity and network security for data centers.
A. U.S. AI Companies Can More Effectively Address Diversion Concerns for 
Advanced Computing Items by Locating Their Advanced Computing 
Resources in Countries with Similar Export Control Regimes to the U.S., 
Like Portugal.
Given the sensitivity of advanced computing items, U.S. companies benefit from investing 
in data center compute capacity in countries that have similar export control regimes as the United 
States. To that end, Portugal’s participation in numerous multilateral trade agreements alongside 
the United States makes it and, by extension, Start Campus ideal for housing advanced computing 
ICs to power U.S. advanced compute capacity. 
Portugal was a founding member of the Wassenaar Arrangement in December 1995, 
alongside the United States.16 Countries participating in the Wassenaar Arrangement apply export 
controls to a specified list of dual-use goods and technologies to contribute to regional and 
international security and stability.17 Portugal is also a long-standing member of the Missile 
Technology Control Regime (MTCR), the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG), and the Australia 
Group (AG), which it joined in 1992, 1986, and 1985, respectively.18 Portugal has been a member 
of the Australia Group from its inception, alongside Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, 
Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Spain, and the United Kingdom, 
which are all Tier 1 countries.19
Additionally, Portugal’s dual-use regulations align closely with those of the United States. 
Regulation (EU) 2021/821 governs the EU's export control regime.20 Similar to those controls 
16 Wassenaar Arrangement, Public Documents Vol. I: Founding Documents (Dec. 2021), 
https://www.wassenaar.org/app/uploads/2021/12/Public-Docs-Vol-I-Founding-Documents.pdf. 
17 Wassenaar Arrangement, About Us, https://www.wassenaar.org/about-us/. 
18 Missile Technology Control Regime, Partners, https://www.mtcr.info/en/partners; Nuclear Suppliers Group, Participants, 
https://www.nuclearsuppliersgroup.org/index.php/en/about/participants.  
19 Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, The Australia Group – Participants, 
https://www.dfat.gov.au/publications/minisite/theaustraliagroupnet/site/en/participants.html. 
20 EUR-Lex, Regulation (EU) 2021/821 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2021 (last visited Feb. 2025), 
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02021R0821-20241108.  


12 
imposed under the U.S. export control regime and by European Tier 1 countries, the regulation 
requires authorization for the export of certain dual-use items. 
This structure and its close alignment with U.S. export controls makes Portugal and Start 
Campus’ SINES DC an ideal location and environment for U.S. AI companies to house their 
advanced compute capacity. But Portugal’s exclusion from Tier 1 makes it far more challenging 
for U.S. companies to take advantage of this location and alignment, without forwarding U.S. 
national security objectives.
B. Portugal Has Taken a Harder Line Against Companies of Concern –
Particularly Huawei and ZTE – Than Most Tier 1 Countries, by Banning All
Huawei and ZTE Equipment from Its 5G Networks, In Alignment with the
United States.
Supply chain security for data centers is an important element in addressing diversion 
concerns related to advanced computing ICs and AI infrastructure. For instance, under the AI 
Diffusion Rule, VEU applicants are required to demonstrate that they have eliminated supply chain 
dependencies on certain equipment and services that are deemed to pose an unacceptable risk to 
the national security of the U.S. or the security and safety of U.S. persons. This includes 
telecommunications equipment produced by Huawei or ZTE, including telecommunications or 
video surveillance systems provided by such entity or using such equipment. 
In January 2020, the European Commission (the Commission) published the EU Toolbox 
on 5G cybersecurity, which was aimed at addressing risks related to the cybersecurity of 5G 
networks.21 This included the recommendation to apply relevant restrictions for suppliers 
considered to be “high risk.” On June 15, 2023, the Commission published a communication 
confirming that “decisions adopted by Member States to restrict or exclude Huawei and ZTE from 
5G networks are justified and compliant with the 5G Toolbox. Consistently with such decisions, 
and on the basis of a broad range of available information, the Commission considers that Huawei 
and ZTE represent in fact materially higher risks than other 5G suppliers.”22
Portugal has taken a strict line and has relied on the recommendations in the toolbox to 
effectively exclude Huawei and ZTE from its 5G network, in line with the United States. In May 
2023, Portugal’s cybersecurity council (the CSSC) adopted Resolution 1/2023 on the “high risk” 
to the security of 5G networks and services of using equipment from suppliers that, among other 
criteria, are from outside the EU, NATO or OECD and that “the legal system of the country in 
which they are domiciled” or connected “allows the Government to exercise control, interference 
or pressure over their activities operating in third countries.”23 The result of the resolution 
effectively bans domestic telecom operators from using equipment from Huawei, ZTE (and other 
suppliers who may be of concern) for Portugal’s 5G networks. A new center-right government 
21 European Commission, Cybersecurity of 5G Networks: EU Toolbox of Risk-Mitigation Measures (2025), https://digital-
strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/cybersecurity-5g-networks-eu-toolbox-risk-mitigating-measures. 
22 European Commission, Press Release on EU Security Measures and 5G Networks (Apr. 2023), 
https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_23_3309 .  
23 Gabinete Nacional de Segurança, Deliberação n.º 1/2023 (Jan. 2023), https://www.gns.gov.pt/docs/cas-deliberacao-1-2023.pdf. 


13 
came into power in Portugal in April 2024 and has announced that it will uphold the previous 
administration’s ban on telecom firms using Huawei equipment in their 5G networks.24
This framework provides U.S. companies who wish to house their advanced computing 
ICs in data centers in Portugal, such as Start Campus’ SINES DC, with confidence that they are 
establishing their data center infrastructure in an environment free from equipment that presents 
U.S. national security concerns. Leaving Portugal out of Tier 1 prevents U.S. companies from 
being able to take advantage of this additional safeguard.
C. Portugal Provides an Ideal Cybersecurity Environment to Host U.S. Data
Center Infrastructure, As Portugal Is Ranked Among the Top-Tier Countries
in Leading Cybersecurity Indices, Outperforming Many Tier 1 European
Countries.
Robust cybersecurity practices and commitments in countries that host data centers help to 
enable and encourage companies operating there to use advanced AI models in a manner that 
advances the common national security and foreign policy interests of the United States and its 
allies. A significant focus of the AI Diffusion Rule is AI-specific cybersecurity – the rule includes 
requirements that VEUs implement policies and procedures compliant with National Institute of 
Standards and Technology (NIST) frameworks and best practices in the National Security Agency 
(NSA) cybersecurity information sheet “Deploying AI Systems Securely”25 and the Cybersecurity 
and Infrastructure Security Agency Insider Threat Mitigation Guide.26 Such policies and 
procedures are more effective when there is buy-in from the national government on cybersecurity 
and the policies and procedures build upon a nationwide framework and commitment to 
cybersecurity. 
Portugal outperforms many Tier 1 countries in Europe in leading cybersecurity indices. 
Portugal was recognized as a “role-modelling” country on cybersecurity in the International 
Telecommunications Union’s (ITU) Global Cybersecurity Index in 2024.27 In addition, Portugal 
ranked tenth in the National Cyber Security Index rankings, receiving particularly high marks for 
its cybersecurity of critical information infrastructure, cyber incident response, and offensive 
against cybercrime.28 This underlying framework provides an ideal environment for U.S. 
companies to house their data center infrastructure and advanced computing ICs, as well as 
implement cybersecurity measures as required by U.S. export control regulations. Leaving 
Portugal out of Tier 1 makes it unnecessarily more challenging for U.S. companies to establish 
their data center infrastructure and advanced computing ICs in Portugal and take advantage of 
these robust cybersecurity measures.
24 European Interest, Portuguese Government Maintains Ban on Huawei 5G Equipment (Sept. 2023), 
https://www.europeaninterest.eu/portuguese-government-maintains-ban-on-huawei-5g-equipment/. 
25 U.S. Department of Defense, Deploying AI Systems Securely (Apr. 15, 2024), 
https://media.defense.gov/2024/Apr/15/2003439257/-1/-1/0/CSI-DEPLOYING-AI-SYSTEMS-SECURELY.PDF. 
26 Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, Insider Threat Mitigation Guide (Nov. 2022), 
https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/2022-11/Insider%20Threat%20Mitigation%20Guide_Final_508.pdf. 
27 International Telecommunication Union, GCI Report: Global Cybersecurity Index 2024 (2024), 
https://www.itu.int/dms_pub/itu-d/opb/hdb/d-hdb-gci.01-2024-pdf-e.pdf. 
28 National Cybersecurity Index, Cybersecurity in Portugal (2025), https://ncsi.ega.ee/country/pt/?pdfReport=1 ; National 
Cybersecurity Index, National Cybersecurity Index (2025), https://ncsi.ega.ee/ncsi-index/?order=rank.  


14 
D. SINES DC Ensures a Secure and Compliant Environment for Hosting U.S.
Advanced Compute Capacity.
DKCM’s Start Campus has been established with an unwavering commitment to the 
highest security standards – across physical, cyber, and personnel measures – in all aspects of its 
operations, ensuring a secure and compliant environment for hosting U.S. advanced computing 
ICs of its customers.
Start Campus is fully backed by U.S. funds, with no involvement from entities in Country 
Group D:5, ensuring complete U.S. control and governance. This operational independence 
extends across all facets of the facility: no personnel, contractors, or service providers from 
Country Group D:5 are part of its operation, maintenance, or management. All critical hardware, 
software, and infrastructure is sourced exclusively from non-affiliated vendors, in compliance with 
Section 2 of The Secure Networks Act. With ISO27001 compliance obtained and NIS2 
certification underway, Start Campus has no exposure to the legal or data jurisdiction of any 
Country Group D:5 nation. Additionally, Start Campus’s network and connectivity are secure, with 
no routing through infrastructure controlled by Country Group D:5, and partnerships with network 
service providers (NSPs) are thoroughly vetted.
More broadly, Start Campus takes a comprehensive approach to compliance, applying 
thorough Know Your Counterpart (KYC) processes to all stakeholders it engages with – this 
includes customers, suppliers, contractors, consultants, service providers, and more broadly, any 
business partners. The due diligence process is rigorous, with detailed verification of business 
registration, corporate structure, tax compliance, shareholder details, and Ultimate Beneficial 
Owners (UBOs) for all involved parties. Furthermore, Start Campus conducts in-depth financial 
and legal standing reviews, examining audited financial statements, credit ratings, solvency ratios, 
and any ongoing or pending legal proceedings. These measures ensure that all partners adhere to 
the highest standards of transparency, financial health, and legal compliance, further strengthening 
the integrity of the entire operations.
Leaving Portugal out of Tier 1 makes it more challenging for U.S. companies to access 
secure, reliable advanced compute infrastructure, limiting their ability to leverage a fully 
independent, compliant environment for critical AI and data-driven operations.
E. The DKCM-Owned Start Campus’ Data Center in Portugal Is Strategically
Located for the U.S. AI Industry as Its Geographic Location and Secure
Environment Provides Robust Safeguards Against Diversion and Misuse of
Advanced Models.
U.S. companies looking to invest or deploy advanced compute in data centers overseas 
benefit from data center locations that can provide robust physical and logical security, both to 
adhere to U.S. regulatory requirements and to ensure the security and reliability of their data center 
compute capacity. Subsea cables are critical to connecting these U.S. companies to advanced 


15 
compute capacity housed abroad. However, in recent years, the security of these cables has been 
called into question following damage to critical subsea cables in the Baltic Sea.29
Start Campus’ SINES DC location in Portugal not only provides U.S. industry with a much 
more geographically secure location from potential subsea cable interference, given the proximity 
of both mainland Portugal and the Azores Islands to the U.S., but this geographic security is also 
supported by Portugal’s commitment to ensuring the security of subsea cable networks. In 
September 2024, Portugal, along with Finland, France, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom 
(all Tier 1 countries) “endorsed a U.S.-led joint statement . . . on undersea cable security and 
resilience, emphasizing the importance of ‘secure and verifiable subsea cable providers for new 
cable projects.’”30
U.S. companies are already taking advantage of Portugal’s proximity to the United States 
and its strong commitment to subsea cable security and resilience. A subsea cable connecting the 
U.S. and Portugal can lay solely within U.S. and Portuguese territorial water, Exclusive Economic 
Zone (EEZ), and the high seas – there is no risk from transiting a third country’s waters. In July 
2024, Google applied to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to build and operate a 
6,900-kilometer-long subsea cable (the Nuvem  cable) linking the United States to Bermuda, the 
Azores Islands, and mainland Portugal,31 establishing a secure, direct connection between the 
United States and Portugal, and providing a safe alternative to North Atlantic subsea cables. 
Indeed, the majority of subsea cable capacity connecting to Portugal are U.S.-led initiatives.
Strategically positioned at Europe’s westernmost edge and well connected, Portugal is 
emerging as a priority hub for absorbing surging U.S. network traffic demand. Leaving Portugal 
out of Tier 1 makes it more challenging for the U.S. AI industry to take advantage of the secure 
ecosystem and location of Portugal, SINES DC, and the broader safeguards against data center 
interference available to them in Portugal.
VII. Conclusion
DKCM respectfully submits that the exclusion of Portugal from Tier 1 will not advance
U.S. national security interests. Instead, the associated “burdensome requirements” will “hamper 
private sector AI innovation” needed to “sustain and enhance America’s AI dominance.” 
Additionally, Portugal’s exclusion from Tier 1 will have negative effects on U.S. leadership and 
competitiveness in science, technology, engineering, and manufacturing and will deprive U.S. 
companies of a safe, secure location to house their advanced compute capacity. Ultimately, these 
burdensome restrictions on Portugal and, by extension, Start Campus and DKCM, will be 
detrimental to U.S. national security and U.S. technology leadership, particularly in the AI sector.
29 Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Securing Europe’s Subsea Data Cables (Dec. 2024), 
https://carnegieendowment.org/research/2024/12/securing-europes-subsea-data-cables?. 
30Id.
31 Google Asks to Lay Transatlantic Subsea Cable to Link U.S. to Portugal, The Herald News, July 5, 2024, 
https://www.heraldnews.com/story/news/local/ojornal/2024/07/05/google-asks-to-lay-transatlantic-subsea-cable-to-link-u-s-to-
portugal/74310429007..  


