BEFORE  THE 
NETWORKING AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND 
DEVELOPMENT NATIONAL COORDINATION OFFICE,  
NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION  
The Di gital Media Licensing Association (DMLA) appreciates the opportunity to submit the 
following comments in response to the request for information (RFI) published by the Networking 
and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office 
(NCO), National Science Foundation on behalf of the Office of Science and Technology Policy 
(OSTP) in the Federal Register on February 6, 2025, requesting input from interested parties on 
priority actions that should be included in the Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan.12 
The DM LA is a non-profit, non-partisan trade association founded in 1951 that represents the 
interests of content creators, digital media producers, distributors, and licensors. Our membership spans thousands of industry professionals across the visual content ecosystem, from individual 
photographers and illustrators to major stock agencies, technology innovators, and AI developers. 
For more than seven decades, we have worked to establish business standards, develop best 
practices, and advocate for copyright protection, privacy rights, fair licensing practices, and now 
ethical AI development. DMLA members license millions of images, videos, illustrations, vectors, 
1 This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
2 DMLA submits this RFI on behalf of the association and not on behalf of any individual 
members.  
Request for Information on the 
Development of an Artiﬁcial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  


audio, and other creative content globally each day, powering everything from news media and 
educational materials to corporate communications, advertising campaigns, and entertainment 
products. 
DMLA  commends the National Science Foundation, the OSTP, and each federal agency involved 
in the Administration's coordinated effort to ensure that America's AI dominance is sustained and enhanced. We have been actively engaged in discussions regarding AI and copyright with our 
members, industry partners, and government agencies, including participating in the Copyright 
Office's and Patent and Trademark Office's (PTO) studies on AI. We firmly believe that the 
insights provided by these expert intellectual property agencies on the intersection of copyright and 
AI should meaningfully inform the development of the AI Action Plan. 
DMLA  supports the responsible, respectful, and ethical development and use of AI technologies 
that drive innovation while honoring intellectual property rights. An AI ecosystem that properly 
values visual content and respects the rights of creators and copyright owners will be stronger and 
more sustainable than one that doesn’t, and this requires acknowledging the critical role of properly 
licensed works in AI development. Creators should be able to determine if, how, and when their 
content is used and shared. Many of our members are exploring how generative artificial 
intelligence (GAI) can enhance their businesses while developing specialized licensing solutions 
specifically for AI training and development. We are actively establishing standards for ethica l AI 
practices, content authenticity, and proper attribution across the media landscape, ensuring our industry continues to thrive amid technological transformation. 
We subm it these comments to ensure that the AI Action Plan is developed with a respect for and 
recognition of longstanding copyright laws and licensing practices that have made the United States the global leader in both creative industries and technological innovation. 
Respe cting Established Copyright Laws Promotes Human Flourishing, Economic 
Competitiveness, and National Security 
The RF I asks for input in response to President Trump’s Executive Order 14179 “to establish U.S. 
policy for sustaining and enhancing America's AI dominance in order to promote human 


flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security.” (emphasis added). Promoting human 
flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security are all objectives that run parallel to 
the goals of America’s copyright system, enshrined in Article I, Section 8, Clause 8 of the 
Constitution. Known as the “IP Clause,” it grants Congress the power “to promote the progress of 
science and useful arts, by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to 
their respective writings and discoveries.” IP laws, including copyright laws, enable human authors 
to create and innovate, and they are key to securing America ’s sustained economic competitiveness 
and global leadership. It is essential that the AI Action Plan be developed with an appreciation for the Constitutional guarantees that protect copyright owners and the human creators without whom 
GAI systems would not exist.  
To that  end, long-standing copyright laws and policies  must not be cast aside in favor of new laws 
or policies obligating creators to essentially subsidize GAI technologies. As detailed further below, 
existing U.S. copyright laws are carefully balanced to provide essential protections along with 
important flexibilities – a deliberate rubric that must not b e altered for AI. From broadcast content, 
film and TV  shows, and journalism to sound recordings, works of visual arts, books, and 
everything in between, the ingestion of copyrighted protected works for GAI training is one of the 
central controversies relat ed to the development of GAI technologies. Whether the unauthorized 
ingestion of copyright protected works for training constitutes copyright infringement or whether it qualifies for U.S. copyright law’s fair use exception is an issue that has become the focus of nearly 
forty ongoing federal lawsuits, and it’s one that will and should continue to be decided on a case-
by-case basis.  
Feder al courts have been applying fair use for over a century, throughout various technological 
advancements like the photocopy machine, the VCR, the Internet, digital music services, and many other new technologies. Courts are clearly capable of applying fair use to novel questions 
surrounding disruptive technologies, and they are best positioned to do so with GAI. Thus, there is 
no need to change copyright law or create a new AI exception in the law. This is not just the view of 
a broad consensus of the copyright industries, it is also the view of numerous GAI companies, and the diverse industry groups that represent them .
3 As a result, there are many areas related to AI 
3 See OpenAI, Reply Comments Submitted in Response to U.S. Copyright Office’s Aug. 30, 2023, 
Notice of Inquiry at 2-3 (Dec. 6, 2023) (“One recurring theme in the initial round of comments is a 


where the Administration may feel the need to take action to help facilitate U.S. world dominance 
in AI, but copyright is not one of those areas. 
Promot ing Economic Growth and Good Jobs 
While A I is predicted to be a significant contributor to the economy, the contributions of U.S. 
creative industries —made possible through copyright law—have been one of the most significant 
contributors to the U.S. economy and to job creation for decades. A recent report on the economic 
impact of copyright by the International Intellectual Property Alliance notes that, in 2023, the core 
copyright industries contributed more than $2 trillion to the U.S. gross domestic product (GDP) 
(accounting for 7.66% of the U.S. economy) and employed 11.6 million workers (or 5.43% of the 
workforce).4 In addition to growing at a rate more than three times that of the rest of the economy, 
the report notes that the core copyright industries: 
(1) ma ke up an increasingly large percentage of value added to GDP; (2) create more and
better paying jobs than other sectors of the U.S. economy; (3) grow faster than the rest ofthe U.S. economy; (4) contribute substantially to U.S. foreign sales and exports, outpacing
many industry sectors; and (5) make significantly large contributions to what the [U.S.
Bureau of Economic Analysis] defines as the digital economy, which does not even
encompass the full scope of the copyright industries’ digital activities.
5
recognition that there is no need for fundamental changes to copyright law at this time…OpenAI 
echoes the sentiments highlighted above that legislative  changes to copyright would be premature 
at this time.”); Google, Comments Submitted in Response to U.S. Copyright Office’s Aug. 30, 2023, Notice of Inquiry at 1 (Oct. 30, 2023) (“However, we believe that existing copyright doctrines are sufficiently flexib le to handle many of the scenarios that will likely arise with AI, and 
that courts — informed with the facts of specific cases — are the appropriate first venues for determining how those doctrines should apply.”); Computer & Communications Industry Associ ation (CCIA), Comments Submitted in Response to U.S. Copyright Office’s Aug. 30, 2023, 
Notice of Inquiry at 1 (Oct. 30, 2023) (“CCIA believes that existing U.S. copyright law is capable of addressing issues related to artificial intelligence and serves to promote creative activity in AI technology.”). 
4 Robert Stoner & Jéssica Dutra, Copyright Industries in the U.S. Economy: The 2024 Report , 
INT’L INTELL . PROP. ALL. (Feb. 2025), https://www.iipa.org/files/uploads/2025/02/IIPA-Copyright-
Industries- in-the- U.S.-Economy-Report-2024_ONLINE_FINAL.pdf .  
5 Id. at 21.  


Copyright industries are an invaluable asset to the U.S. economy because the exclusive intellectual 
property rights afforded by copyright incentivize investment in the creation and dissemination of 
new expressive works and allow those copyright owners to recoup that investment. The U.S. 
continues to be the world leader in intellectual property —an attribute that contributes significantly 
to this country’s vast cultural influence and its standing as the world’s leading economy. The AI Action Plan must consider the effect policy actions may have on copyright’s importance to the 
economy and job creation. 
Promo ting Free Markets Through Copyright Licensing  
Promot ing free markets and a robust voluntary licensing ecosystem is essential to ensuring 
American competitiveness in GAI. Copyright law enables creators and copyright owners to supply 
GAI companies with flexible and responsive solutions for training through tailored licensing and 
business models for GAI development. The ability of creators and copyright owners to create 
works and enforce their rights in those works is crucial because it incentivizes the further creation 
and proliferation of high-quality creative works which form the basis for GAI development. 
Without copyrighted works to train GAI models, GAI technologies cannot generate high-quality 
outputs. The growing number of licensing and partnership deals between GAI companies and rights 
holders being reached with each passing day demonstrates these points. 
The ri se of generative AI technologies has created a robust and growing market for licensing 
copyrighted works for AI training purposes. As representatives of the visual media licensing industry, we have witnessed firsthand the development of numerous free- market licensing 
agreements between rightsholders and AI developers.  Our members have been at the forefront of responsible licensing that respect creators' rights while fostering innovation. 
Withi n our industry, specialized licensing platforms have emerged specifically to address AI 
training needs. Companies like Bria.ai have pioneered responsible AI development by training their models exclusively using properly licensed content acquired from a network of over 30 data 
partners. Similarly, initiatives like Troveo and Created by Humans are establishing frameworks for 
fair compensation when creative works are used for AI training. The Fairly Trained certification 
(fairlytrained.org) is another important development dedicated to promoting fairness in the use of 


training data for Generative AI models. Its certification process helps consumers identify which 
companies obtain proper licenses and respect creator consent for training data, addressing the 
common practice of using creators' work without permission or compensation. 
What's  particularly promising about this emerging licensing ecosystem is how it creates new 
monetization pathways that benefit creators of all sizes, not just established media companies. Independent photographers, illustrators, writers, and other creators who may struggle to break into 
traditional publishing channels can now directly license their work for AI training purposes. By 
preserving the current copyright framework rather than creating exceptions for AI, we allow these 
promising new markets to deve lop, democratizing access to revenue streams that would otherwise 
be unavailable to smaller creators. This creates a more inclusive creative economy where both human creativity and technological innovation are properly valued. 
This lic ensing -based ecosystem directly supports the foundational principles of American copyright 
law. The Founding Fathers recognized that protecting creators' rights to benefit monetarily and 
control their works was essential to fostering innovation, not hindering it. The constitutional 
balance struck in the IP Clause - protecting works for limited times to promote progress - creates 
the optimal environment for both creation and innovation. A properly functioning licensing market for AI training data fulfills this vision by ensuring creators are incentivized to continue producing 
high-quality works while enabling technological advancement. By contrast, allowing unfettered 
access to creative works without proper licensing would ultimately stifle innovation by 
discouraging creators from investing time and resources into new content creation. 
The re cent Thomson Reuters v. Ross Intelligence ruling (February 2025) 6further validates the 
importance of proper licensing for AI training data. The court rejected Ross's fair use defense when it used Thomson Reuters' content without permission to train its legal AI system, emphasizing that 
a viable licensing market exists f or such purposes. 
Since  the rise of GAI technologies a few years ago, the number of free- market licensing agreements 
between copyright owners and GAI companies has grown significantly. Increasing numbers of 
6 Thomson Reuters Ent. Centre GmBH et al. v. Ross Intelligence, Inc., No. 20- cv-613 (D. Del. Feb. 
11, 2025), https://www.ded.uscourts.gov/sites/ded/files/opinions/20-613_5.pdf 


copyright owners, particularly news, magazine, and academic publishers and image/media licensors 
are licensing their copyrighted works to AI companies for commercial uses and have been doing so 
for years. This shows that the market is working and there does not need to be any change in 
copyright law or policies that could disrupt that market. Copyright and GAI can continue to 
progress successfully together without changes to copyright law. 
While t he GAI -copyright licensing market has grown over time, this growth will be stunted if 
changes to copyright law were made that create new exceptions for GAI training. Nobody disputes that GAI companies and developers must pay for and invest in computer chips and cloud 
infrastructure. It is part of the cost of doing business in a free market. So, too, is free- market 
licensing of copyrighted works. To think otherwise would be detrimental to American economic competitiveness, because strong copyright laws can and already have been shown to foster AI innovation as it forms the basis of competitive AI products, not to mention copyrighted works' own, 
direct benefit to the American economy and balance of trade with foreign nations. 
No polic y should be adopted in response to GAI that interferes with the free market and the 
freedom of copyright owners and GAI companies and developers to enter into licensing agreements. The marketplace should continue to properly value and incentivize creativity, and 
policies developed through the AI Action Plan should not interfere with copyright owners' right to 
choose whether to license their works for GAI purposes. Copyrighted works provide immense 
value to GAI developers, and they can and should pay for that value—as many are already doing 
today. In other words, copyright law sets the conditions for the market to prevail and for the U.S. to 
maintain its position as a global leader in both the AI and creative industries. Free markets will 
encourage th e creation of GAI models based on licensable content with valuable and accurate 
metadata, ultimately making the U.S. models more competitive and valuable.  
For the se reasons, the administration should avoid changes to copyright law regarding AI. The 
existing legal framework is functioning effectively to balance innovation with creator rights 
through the market- based licensing ecosystem described above.  
It shoul d be noted that the adoption of these technologies has actually been slowed as many 
enterprise users remain hesitant to implement AI solutions due to uncertainties surrounding 


copyright issues. Establishing clear copyright guidelines that respect existing laws would accelerate 
responsible AI development and adoption while reducing the current resources many companies 
must allocate to content filtering and moderation.  
The Need  for Copyright Transparency  
If the  administration does address copyright and GAI issues, the one area that should be addressed 
is requiring transparency surrounding what copyrighted materials are used to train publicly available GAI models when those materials have not been licensed for training purposes. 
Developers of GAI models available to the public that ingest the copyrighted works of third parties without a license should be required to satisfy transparency standards related to the collection, 
retention, and disclosure of the copyrighted works they use to train AI. Adequate transparency regarding ingestion of unlicensed copyrighted works is vital to ensuring that copyright owners' 
rights are respected alongside the advancement of GAI technologies. 
Best practices from corporations, research institutions, governments, and other organizations that 
encourage transparency around GAI ingestion already exist that enable users of AI systems or those affected by its outputs to know the provenance of those outputs. For example, the developers of 
GAI models made available on an open-source basis commonly disclose the public datasets they 
have used for training and such datasets are then able to be interrogated by the owners of copyright 
works to check whether their works have been used. There is no reason these same levels of 
disclosure should not also apply to all GAI ingestion of unlicensed copyrighted works. Such 
disclosure steps are non-burdensome and can be done without compromising trade secrets. It is 
vital that GAI developers be required to maintain adequate and proportionate records of 
copyrighted works they neither own nor license that were used to train the GAI and to make those 
records publicly accessible and searchable as appropriate.  
Adequat e and appropriate scoped transparency and record-keeping requirements benefit copyright 
owners by enabling them to learn whether and how their works have been used to train AI models. They also benefit AI developers in that transparency promotes consumer trust. Consequently, 
transparency by businesses that offer GAI systems to the public is a crucial component of any AI 
policy. 


To ensur e meaningful transparency, we recommend that the Administration implement mandatory 
public disclosure requirements for commercial GAI developers regarding the sources of their 
unlicensed training data.  These suggested transparency measures are not merely about enforcement 
- they are essential to building consumer trust and market stability. Enterprise customersincreasingly demand clarity about the provenance of AI training data to mitigate their own legal
risks. A tran sparent AI ecosystem allows b usinesses to make informed decisions about which AI
tools to adopt, driving market forces that reward responsible development practices.
Trans parency of Copyright Outputs  
One area w here there is a clear public need for technical developments to be accelerated and 
aligned is in relation to the “ explainability and assurance of AI model outputs ”, one of the topics 
identified to be of interest in the RFI. The rate at which new AI -generated content is being 
produced - be it text, images, or other types of works - is vastly outpacing the rate of production of the same type of human- generated  works. Society risks a flood of disinformation and AI -generated  
content that will undermine the public’s trust in institutions and each other. To combat this, AI -
generated  and manipulated content needs to be identified at the root level, at the time it is produced. 
In this regard, it is critical that AI model outputs are labelled as such at the point of generation (or modification) so that individuals interacting with that content know whether it is human -created or 
AI generated.  If AI models don’t do this, the burden will fall to the public, and the debate over truth will then occur after the AI -generated  content has been published, if at all, allowing it to 
replicate and influence.  
Volunta ry initiatives are being pursued by all the large technology companies in this area but, to  
achieve alignment, regulation is needed.  Essentially, responsibility needs to be placed on AI model 
providers to include sufficiently detailed and durable information within generated files, and on 
platforms to retain and surface that information. This needs to be done in a consistent manner if 
widespread adoption is to be achieved. Other governments are assessing options in this area but 
none have yet said how  labelling should be done. There is an opportunity for the US government to 
set global standards in this area if it can act quickly enough. 


Key areas where development is needed are:  
i. ensuri ng granularity of labelling  (e.g. so viewers can identify  whether content has
been manipulated or retouched, whether human created or AI created , and, critically,
which AI model has been used to generate or modify the content);
ii. establishment of look-up registries so that any detached “output labels” can be re-
attached;
iii. estab lishment of “trust lists” to guard against identity fraud; and
iv. me tadata identifiers to be supplemented by watermark and fingerprinting measures, so
that a truly multi- layered approach is taken.
Prot ecting and Promoting Copyright Is Crucial to Identifying Trade Barriers and Ensuring 
American Global Economic Competitiveness and Leadership  
The globa l protection of U.S. intellectual property is an imperative part of developing an AI Action 
Plan that will ensure U.S. economic competitiveness and sustained global leadership, and it’s a 
principle that the first Trump Administration championed.7 Unfortunately, the development and 
deployment of GAI in foreign markets has created barriers to trade that put U.S. copyright owners at a disadvantage. These barriers have most frequently arisen in the form of broad copyright exceptions 
for GAI in some fo reign countries that fundamentally weaken copyright protection and threaten the 
sustainability and competitiveness of America’s creative sector and its ability to contribute to U.S. economic growth and job creation. The DMLA and its members oppose such broad exceptions.  
7 For example, in 2020, the Administration issued Artificial Intelligence for the American People , 
which reaffirmed the President’s commitment to protecting intellectual property in the AI 
environment, stating: “[t]he United States has long been a champion and defender of the core values of freedom, guarantees of human rights, the rule of law, stability in our institutions, rights to privacy, respect for intellectual property , and opportunities to all to pursue their dreams.” 
(emphasis added) (available at https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/ai/ai- american -worker/ ). The 
first Trump Administration also rejected attempts to weaken copyright protections in the US-Mexico -Canada Agreement (“USMCA”). See generally H.R. 5430 (2024), 
https://www.congress.gov/crs-product/R44981. 


To overc ome these barriers, we urge the Administration to champion the rights of American creators 
and copyright owners and support the protection of copyright globally through bilateral and 
multilateral engagement that advances human -centric and responsible GAI, promotes free markets 
and licensing, and ensures recordkeeping and transparency. Particularly as the global AI race 
continues, there will continue to be efforts to find unethical and unfair shortcuts in the name of progress, 
including measures which weaken and undermine copyright. If shortcuts are utilized without regard for 
intellectual property rights, it will lead to a continued devaluation of creative works, disincentivize the 
creation of new content, and undermine the creative economy that copyright laws were designed to protect.  This directly contradicts the constitutional intent to 'promote the progress of science and useful 
arts' through copyright protection.   
Ameri ca's intellectual property laws, including our robust protections for our creators and innovators, is 
what sets us apart from China and other countries that unfairly circumvent or weaken copyright owners' rights. We have already seen challenges to IP protection come up in the context of newer GAI 
technologies being developed in China. Strong IP and copyright protections are ultimately what gives the U.S. an advantage over those countries, and if we neglect those principles our advantage will be lost.   
This is why it is crucial now more than ever for the Administration to have an AI Action Plan that respects 
and promotes intellectual property rights, including copyright. 
Specifically, we urge opposition to broad 
copyright exceptions and support active engagement with countries and international organizations 
to instead promote strong copyright protections.  
One suc h broad exception that is being considered in some countries is an “opt out” system through 
which copyright owners could exclude their works from future GAI training datasets. We urge the Administration to oppose any opt-out proposals, whether in the U.S. or abroad. U.S. copyright law 
is unequivocally an “opt-in” regime, and allowing a GAI system to use the work unless the 
copyright owner objects (i.e., opts out) would require enactment of legislation. As noted above, 
there is a burgeoning licensing market for AI training, which demonstrates that no exception is 
necessary. Thus, the copyright industries and many others would vehemently oppose any policy or 
change in the law that establishes or supports an opt-out regime, like the ones recently adopted by 
the EU.  
Additi onally, opt- out schemes fail to consider the practical difficulties of implementation. For 


example: (1) many copyrighted works have likely already been copied and used for training prior to 
any new opt-out regime; and (2) despite opting out, copies of the copyrighted works may still be 
included in GAI datasets through other means, such as when c opies are scraped from other sources 
such as a licensee of the copyright owner, from a third- party platform, or from a piracy site where a 
copy has been posted without authorization. The practical effects of opt-out, particularly regarding 
works already used to train GAI, are also negligible given that removing entire works at scale from 
a GAI model is challenging .  
While  some proponents claim that existing technical solutions may assist with opt-out, these tools 
typically have significant limitations because they are only effective to the extent the opt-out mechanism is recognized and respected, and because these too ls are often not designed to be 
targeted to address scraping for GAI ingestion.
8 Copyrighted works also often exist in multiple 
places on the internet that make it nearly impossible for a rights holder to apply the opt-out indicator to every copy of that work. For example, a single song can be streamed on a digital 
streaming platform,  played as the background music of a user uploaded video on a social media 
platform or in advertisements, or displayed as notes or lyrics on a website. It is impossible for the rights holder to successfully opt out in a way where every single downstream use would be tagged 
with the proper recognized and respected opt-out signal to prevent GAI scraping and use. The 
current discussions on this issue in the context of the EU AI Act clearly demonstrate that no 
workable opt- out mechanism currently exists or is likely to exist in the future.  
Moreove r, copies of works available on pirate sites are even further removed from the copyright 
owner’s control. Documented evidence has emerged of GAI companies using pirated copies of creative works to train their AI models and even proliferating pirated copies themselves during the 
GAI development process.
9 An opt-out regime fails to address or ameliorate any of these problems 
8 Robots.txt protocol is one example. While robots.txt does alert scraping tools not to ingest the 
associated copyrighted work, it has significant limitations because it is only effective to the extent it 
is recognized and respected, and it was not designed to be targeted to scraping for generative AI ingestion. Robots.txt may also prevent a search engine from indexing the work. A copyright owner may want their work to be scraped for search engine purposes—so they can be found on the internet —but not for AI ingestion. Even if robots.txt is used, it does not attach to the copyrighted 
work itself but will operate at the URL or website level.  
9 Kate Knibbs, Meta Secretly Trained Its AI on a Notorious Piracy Database, Newly Unredacted 
Court Docs Reveal , WIRED (Jan. 9, 2025, 5:33 PM), https://www.wired.com/story/new -docume nts-
unredacted -meta -copyright- ai-lawsuit/.   


and certainly does not afford the rights holder any semblance of control. For these same reasons, 
there is currently a high level of uncertainty over what constitutes an effective opt-out,10 and as 
time passes this uncertainty is being exploited by some GAI developers who continue to train on scraped content despite legitimate efforts from copyright owners to opt out. So, in sum, opt-out 
does not and will not work.  
Concl usion 
When for mulating a new AI Action Plan, DMLA strongly urges the Administration to reject calls 
for new copyright exceptions for AI training. Instead, the Action Plan should explicitly acknowledge the adequacy of existing copyright laws, actively support the flourishing free market 
for licensed content, and impleme nt meaningful transparency requirements for commercial GAI 
developers. We encourage policymakers to take decisive action to adopt clear copyright policies, as 
legal uncertainty will undoubtedly slow AI adoption and reduce U.S. leadership in this critical a rea. 
The Administration should work collaboratively with AI companies and copyright holders to establish guidelines that respect intellectual property rights while fostering innovation. 
As re presentatives of an industry that licenses hundreds of millions of images worldwide, we 
believe responsible AI innovation depends on respect for existing U.S. intellectual property laws and free market licensing models . The U.S. economy, to which visual content creators and licensors 
are vital contributors, will be best served by policies that promote, protect, and enforce copyright globally." 
We appreciate  the opportunity to submit these comments and are  happy to answer  any additional 
questions. 
10 We can look to the European Union to see that there is confusion over what is considered a 
proper “machine-readable” format, a question which has been raised by at least one German court. 
See Landgericht Hamburg [Hamburg Regional Court] Sept. 27, 2024, 310 O.22723, Kneschke v. 
LAION , 310 O.22723 (Ger.). See also Roy Kaufman, AI Rights Reservation: Human Readable is 
Machine Readable — An Interview with Haralambos (“Babis”) Marmanis , (Feb. 17, 2025), 
https://scholarlykitchen.sspnet.org/2025/02/17/ai-rights- reservation -human- readable- is-machine-
readable- an-interview -with-haralambos -babis -marmanis/. 


Respectfully Submitted,  
Joe G. N aylor  
President  
Digital Media Licensing Association 
c/o Cowan, DeBaets, Abrahams & Sheppard LLP 
60 Broad  Street, 30th Floor 
New York, New York  10004 
Marc h 15, 2025 


