CERTIFICATION  OF BUSINESS PRACTICES AND ALGORITHMS   
AS A COMPLEMENTARY APPROACH TO PLATFORM REGULATION  
Proposal by Dovev Lavie, Oreste Pollicino, & Tommaso Valletti 
February 6, 2025  
 
Concerns are rising about the perfect storm that brings together dominant digital platforms and 
national politics. Europe has been relying on regulation to protect against the winds of platform harm, 
but regulation has reached its limits. How can we withstand  the Big Tech firms and Chinese upstarts ? 
How can we build digital platforms  that better serve society ?  
 
Instead of resorting to the familiar toolkit, I suggest a new approach. V oluntary certification of digital 
platforms can restrict the harmful practices of some dominant platforms but more importantly 
motivate contender platforms with stakeholder-oriented business models.  
 
We do not expect all dominant platforms to forgo exploitative business models and certify, but 
certification can reward the virtuous conduct of emerging platforms  such as Mastodon, Thrive 
Market, Brightly, Signal,  Proton and Jitsi Meet . Before pursuing my PhD at Wharton, back in the 
1990s I was a consultant for companies undergoing ISO9001 certification. I had to convince 
executives that their  investments would pay off and that this  seal of approval would attract customers 
and grow their business. Nowadays with more than a million certified sites, ISO9001 is needed to 
play, but those who were early to certify gained a differentiation advantage, much like emerging 
platforms can gain today. 
 
By complementing protective regulation with a system that motivates platforms to better serv e 
stakeholders, contender platforms can leverage this differentiation advantage and build reputation. 
The purpose is to motivate and reward  platforms that align their practices with the public interest. 
Eventually, those undergoing certification  can impose competitive pressure also on some dominant 
platforms that may revise their practices to retain or regain market share.  
 
What is v oluntary certification ? This approach involves setting standards for desirable practices and 
identifying undesirable practices  using scorecards to help assess and benchmark digital platforms. 
The inspection would be carried out by an independent third- party organization with relevant 
expertise, resources, and inspection processes  to scrutinize the inner working of platforms.  
 
Certification can be useful when regulation is extensive but ambiguous and difficult to enforce. A 
credible system for verifying the claims of  those that strive to serve their stakeholders calls for 
authenticati ng their ethical conduct. C ertification can validat e practices to ensure their compliance 
with standards, as in the examples of ISO9001 and B Corp certification for social impact.  
 
Digital platforms may misrepresent their business practices, disguise them, or maintain secrecy, to 
avoid being caught violating regulations. Therefore, the inspection should go beyond practices that do not always reveal conduct to include also the algorithms of digital platforms. Algorithms  can 
expose the true nature and inner working of practices and conclusively reveal how the platform 
conducts its operations. Although the DSA and DMA already require access to data and algorithms, 
the certification would make this a default in every inspection rather than a rare occasion.  The inspection would include interviews  with managers  and programmers  as well as  a review of 
information systems  with their documentation and software code. S corecards would be used to 
consistently identify harms and determine  if practices meet  desirable standards . The inspection could 
include sandbox testing for  running algorithms  and review  of training data and performance metrices  
of AI algorithms . This can reduce information asymmetry and increase transparency about the 
conduct of digital platforms. Indeed, some platforms may object to the possible exposure of trade 
secrets, but common procedures  could be applied for protecting IP, maintaining confidentiality and 
eliminating conflict of interest in audits, as with the ISO 27001  standard for information security 
systems.  
 
 


 
 The 
inspection team should be interdisciplinary , with skills in computer science, legal studies , and 
business administration . Attracting top talent is not easy, but with competitive compensation and a 
sense of mission it is doable. You would be surprised how many professionals would be eager to travel the world and visit Tech companies that would listen to them. It is also possible to rely on the 
wisdom of the crowd, with anonymous tips from end users and employees of the inspected platforms.  
 
Given the urgency and potential concerns about the legitimacy of the certifying body , it is advisable 
to assign the task to an established and experienced organization such as the B Lab or ISO that can 
rely on existing procedures while  adapting its scorecards  to the context of digital platforms .  
 
It is quite clear that the Big Tech firms  are not incentivized to certify despite growing public concerns 
about their harmful practices. Social pressure is unlikely to make them  revisit harmful practices. Most 
dominant platforms maintain their exploitative practices as long as the gains from such practices offset the gains from certification net the cost of revising their practices.  
 
However,  certification  can enhance the reputation of emerging platforms. As much as the inspection 
can reveal harmful conduct, it can deter the use of harmful practices and help support platforms that 
rely on socially desirable practices. The certification can help them draw more users, attract 
employees , grow their business, and enhance competitiveness without exploiting stakeholders. 
Therefore, certification would initially pay off to small entrepreneurial contenders. S ome digital 
platforms would voluntarily undergo certification and may impose market pressure on the dominant 
platforms. I f market pressure is insufficient, regulators may intervene to make voluntary certification 
mandatory for dominant platforms .  
 
Besides regulatory intervention, the  adoption of certification depends on its differentiation  value, 
network externalities , and competitive pressure . For it to work, users must recognize the value of 
certification . Regulatory intervention could incentivize contenders to certif y by offering funding to 
startups that develop prosocial platforms, by sponsoring the certifying organization, and making the 
certification fee proportional to platform size.  
 
In conclusion, the certification of business practices and algorithms is a novel approach for aligning 
the practices of digital platforms with the interests of stakeholders and society. Promoting certification 
may be more beneficial  than further developing regulation given its limitations.  
-  
- Whereas regulation penalizes harmful platforms, certification contribute s to the reputation of 
platforms that protect stakeholder interests.   
- Unlike regulation, certification  rewards virtuous conduct and identifies undesirable yet 
unforbidden practices.  
- Whereas it takes years to craft and deploy regulation or prosecute for violations, which does not 
benefit customers  or competitors , the certification scorecard can be frequently  updated.  
- Unlike regulation that penalizes ex post, certification provides positive market incentives for 
improving business practices ex ante and help s differentiate platforms that serve stakeholders.  
- Even though certification is voluntary, it is more balanced, independent, systematic, 
comprehensive, and meticulous  in discerning business practices, e.g., by relying on third-party 
inspection as opposed to self- assessment .  
- Whereas the regulation set s baseline expectations and penalizes deviations from requirements, 
certification can point to high standards to which digital platforms would aspire. 
- Unlike regulation, certification  motivates competition without undermining innovation.  
- With certification, digital platforms that consider harmful practices would also weigh the  
reputational damage and loss of market share associated with  such practices .  
- Instead of balancing the  power of digital platforms with that of the judiciary system, certification 
relies on market pressure to align corporate mission with the public interest.   
 
Certification can give rise to digital platforms that better serve society . Prosocial platforms could gain 
a differentiation advantage rather than make socially desirable practices a source of  disadvantage.  


