March 13, 2025 
AI Action Plan  
Attn: Faisal D'Souza 
NCO 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
Re: DQC Comments in response to Request for Information on the Development 
of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan1 
To Whom It May Concern:
Artificial intelligence (AI) data tools and capabilities are reshaping the education and workforce 
development landscape. As state agencies reimagine their state data systems to enable increased data 
access, use, and transparency, AI has the unique potential to help states meet the data needs of 
individuals. AI’s analytical advantages hold immense promise for enhancing the efficacy and reach of 
education, training, and other public agency programs by improving access to data, enhancing data 
linkages, and better protecting individual data. 
As a 20-year-old organization dedicated entirely to the effective use of data in the education and 
workforce sectors, the Data Quality Campaign offers here recommendations for the highest priority 
policy actions that should be in the Office of Science and Technology Policy’s Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan. Per the RFI’s listed priorities, our comments focus on the education and workforce data 
context and address: I. Innovation and research and development;
II. Application and use of AI in the public sector;
III. Data privacy;
IV. Open source development; and
V. Explainability and assurance of AI model outputs.
Priority Areas and Policy Recommendations 
Federal actors, including the administration, should create a policy foundation that can support state 
leaders to use AI in their education and workforce data systems in an effective, sustainable, and 
1 This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan 
and associated documents without attribution. 


transparent manner. Federal leaders can support state agencies and local leaders by prioritizing the 
following actions: 
I. Investing in innovation and development. Federal actors must invest in AI research with a
focus on effective education and workforce data system development and use. As part of
this research and development, federal actors can:●Create forums and incentives for multi-jurisdictional sharing of best practices, ideas,
codes, models, tools, privacy enhancing technologies, and training data.
●Establish a repository for national information-sharing about AI projects so that state
and local actors can collectively learn from the technology’s use in the field.
II. Promoting effective application and use of AI tools in education and workforce settings.
Federal agencies should:
●Provide guidance and best practices that address the appropriate and effective use of AI,
including how to:
●Build AI governance and decisionmaking into existing data system governance
functions.
●Determine whether AI use is appropriate for the situation, including guidance
conducting audits for when and whether data should be used with an AI tool.
●Evaluate whether an AI tool is serving its intended purpose and continuously
monitor the functionality, efficacy, and impartiality of AI models and whether AI
remains a suitable tool.●Ensure appropriate human oversight when using AI in conjunction with
individuals’ education and workforce data, particularly when connected to a
statewide longitudinal data system.●Disseminate best practices related to AI vendor contracts, including:
●Templates and model language that state and local leaders can use for
procurement processes, such as memorandums of understanding that satisfy
federal privacy requirements.●Recommended language state actors can use to govern the ownership and
control of data or intellectual property when using AI or third-party vendors,
especially as it impacts individuals’ education and employment opportunities.
III. Addressing AI’s privacy  implications by:
●Establishing clear privacy best practices. For example, prohibiting state actors from
uploading personally identifiable information (PII) into open, generative AI tools.
●Providing clear, unambiguous guidance about when and how uses of individual data
within AI tools can be compliant with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act
(FERPA) and other federal privacy laws applicable to students. This step includes
clarifying: i.FERPA’s application to different types and uses of data, including linked P–20W
data, synthetic data, vendor uses of data, and more.
2 


ii.How, if, and when FERPA’s consent provisions should extend to the use of PII in
AI tools, including by disseminating best practices and templates to help state
leaders design consent policies for AI’s use.
IV. Emphasizing open-source, Creative Commons licensed structured data formats.
Open-source data is generally of higher quality and more transparent than data in other
formats. Federal leaders should require recipients of federal funds to make data available in
structured, open, and interoperable formats.
V. Using federal laws and grant programs to prioritize the explainability and assurance of AI
model  outputs by requiring state and local leaders to publicly disclose:
●The use of AI—including what data was involved and how AI was used—on relevant
websites, reports, and tools designed for the public.
●When AI is used for decisionmaking that impacts individuals’ education and employment
opportunities.
DQC appreciates the opportunity to comment on this important work and would be happy to discuss any 
of these ideas further.  
Sincerely, 
Jennifer Bell-Ellwanger 
President and CEO 
3 


