Submission Date:  March 15, 2025  
Subject:  Response to  RFI “Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan ” 
Submitted by:  Dr. Lance Eliot, AI Scientis t 
Emaile d to:  
Submission Basis:  
This is a submission in response to the RFI issued by  the Networking and Information 
Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO)  on 
behalf of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) , which  request s input from 
all interested parties on  the the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
(“Plan”) . 
As required by the RFI, this requisite  statement is included herein: “This document is 
approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.”  
Introductory Rema rks 
As a globall y recognized  AI scientist , including the author of AI columns amassing over 8 million 
views and p odcasts amassing over 3 50,000 downloads, and as a n acclaimed  AI practitioner and 
AI scholar, and as having appeared on national and international TV  and online broadcasts , and 
as author of sever al top -ranked AI books, and as a n invited  speaker and keynote at major AI 
conferences,  and having received numerous awards and honors in the field of AI,  I do herein 
offer input to the Plan .  
The Plan , as stated in the RFI , seeks to “define the priority policy actions needed to sustain and 
enhance America's AI dominance  and to ensure that unnecessarily burdensome requirements 
do not hamper private sector AI innovation .” 
I will , by necessity  of the RFI  stipulations , be brief in the response shown here and  notably  
provide cited  references  to additional content  that fu rther explain s and articulates  my mindful 
and reasoned position s on these  vital and complex  matters.  
The focus of this response concentrates on five key selected AI policy topics. Many  additional AI 
policy topics can be addressed  and, indeed,  require being  closely  addressed . Additional content 
can be provided to offer commentary on such topics  as might be  requested . 
1 


Five Key Selected  AI Policy Topics  
The five AI policies addressed here are as follows.  
(1)AI Innovation and Governmental Considerations
The U.S. government can and does play a crucial role in fostering AI research, AI development, 
and AI deployment through  various means, such as funding, regulations, and public -private 
partnerships. Policies should consider how to balance AI innovation with responsible oversight, 
ensuring that AI advancements benefit society while maintaining competitiveness in the global 
AI race.  
(2)AI and Labor  Impacts
The U.S. gove rnment should carefully consider  and establish or re -establish  AI policies that 
adequately address job displacement, worker retraining, economic shifts , and other labor -
impacting facets of AI . Without a n updated  strategy, large segments of the workforce may face 
economic hardship, while industries requiring AI expertise might  experience labor shortages.  
(3)AI and Privacy
The U.S. government should re view, assess, and adjust or add new AI policies associated with 
data privacy. Modern era AI relies on vast amounts of data, raising concerns about how personal 
information is collected, stored, and used. Clear  and up -to-date  policies on data privacy and AI -
based  surveillance can help protect citizens' rights while enabling innovation in sectors such as 
healthcare, finance, and law enforcement.  
(4)AI and Ethics/Law
The U.S. government should be cognizant of AI ethics and legal/regulatory considerations and 
revise and/or establish AI policies that ensure transparency , fairness, and accountability in AI 
decisi on-making. This is crucial to public trust in AI and the expanded implementation  of AI in 
society and indu stry.  
(5)AI in National Sec urity and Defense
The U.S. g overnment  policies on AI  need  to balance national security interests , ensuring 
responsible AI deployment . AI increasingly plays a  keystone  role in cybersecurity  and AI-enabled 
and autonomous military systems. Establishing  up-to-date guidelines on AI's role in defense will 
help balance national security interests with ethical /legal  considerations  and global stability . 
2 


Conclusion  
The effort to solicit this input to  America ’s AI policies is greatly  appreciated  and an important 
means of maintaining and bolstering U.S. leadership in the advancement of AI. Thoughtful  
policymaking is essential to ensure  that AI technologies are developed and deployed in a 
manner that promotes innovation, safeguards national security, and keeps America at the 
forefront of AI-driven prosperity.  
I welcome providing additional input  to the administration  and engaging actively as the  
American  AI policies process proceeds.  
References  
Eliot, Lance. “These Topmost AI Topics Officially Proclaimed As Shaping  The Future Of AI ”, March 
5, 2025, Forbes.  https://www.forbes.com/sites/lanceeliot/2025/03/05/these -topmost -ai-topics -
officially -proclaimed -as-driving -the-future -of-ai/ 
Eliot, Lance . “Ethical AI Tussling With The Contentious Doctrine Of Double Effect ”, February 26, 
2025, Forbes.  https://www.forbes.com/sites/lanceeliot/2025/02/26/ethical -ai-tussling -with -
the-contentious -doctrine -of-double -effect -in-ai/ 
Eliot, Lance. “Warning Signs That AI Foundational Research And AI Human Talent Could Be 
Slipping Through Academia’s Fingers ”, January 17, 2025, Forbes.  
https://www.forbes.com/sites/lanceeliot/2025/01/17/warning -signs -that-ai-foundational -
research -and-ai-human -talent -could -be-slipping -through -academias -fingers/  
Eliot, Lance . “As Generative AI Models Get Bigger And Better The Reliability Veers Straight Off A 
Cliff”, November 7, 2024, Forbes.  https://www.forbes.com/sites/lanceeliot/2024/11/06/as -
generative -ai-models -get-bigger -and-better -the-reliability -veers -straight -off-a-cliff---or-maybe -
thats -a-mirage/  
Eliot, Lance. “Fifty Must -Know Crucial Golden Nuggets About AI And The Law ”, August 2, 2023, 
Forbes.  https://www.forbes.com/sites/lanceeliot/2023/08/02/fifty -must -know -crucial -golden -
nuggets -about -ai-and-the-law-that-you-need -to-know/  
Eliot, Lance . “Aspiring Toward All -In Global Geopolitical Multilateral Unity Arrangement For Sake 
Of Humanity Says AI Ethics And AI Law ”, April 15, 2023 , Forbe s. 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/lanceeliot/2023/04/15/ai -aspiring -toward -all-in-global -
geopolitical -multilateral -unity -arrangement -for-sake -of-humanity -says-ai-ethics -and-ai-law/  
Eliot, Lance. “FTC Is Watching for False AI Claims ”, Bloomberg Law, April 6, 2023.  
https://news.bloomberglaw.com/federal -contracting/contractors -ftc-is-watching -for-false -ai-
claims -dr-lance -eliot  
3 


