1 3/14/25  
Addressed to: Networking and Information Technology Research and Development 
(NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO), National Science Foundation  
Data Science 4 Everyone  is a coalition advancing data science and AI education so that 
every K -12 student is equipped with the data basics needed to compete and succeed in 
our modern world. Access to data science education is an opportunity to open doors to 
higher education, hig h-paying careers, and an engaged community.  
Created by the University of Chicago Center for RISC , associated with Freakonomics’ 
Steven Levitt, and organized in partnership with The Learning Agency  and the Concord 
Consortium , we support a growing community that knows that the data revolution has 
transformed modern life and we need to prepare our students for it.   
As artificial intelligence (AI) permeates our lives and continues to evolve, the 
significance of data literacy and data science knowledge is tangible. Just as traditional 
literacy and numeracy are vital, data literacy is now an essential skill for individu als to 
be able to capitalize on AI benefits in their personal and professional life, understand 
how to navigate risks, and take advantage of the exploding demand in AI and data -
related jobs.  
The transformative potential of AI is monumental —it stands to reshape societies, job 
markets, social interactions, and even political systems. Greater data literacy among all 
students and more data -savvy graduates to meet workforce demand will better posit ion 
the US to meet challenges, whether they relate to AI, national security, health, the 
economy, education, or manufacturing.  
If AI is positioned to dramatically transform our economy, from the production line to the 
c-suite, then everyone must be prepared to leverage its power. AI alone may add 
between an estimated  $2.6 trillion to $4.4 trillion annually  to the global economy and 
may automate between 60% to 70% of task -time within existing jobs, rather than full 
replacement. Earlier studies estimated that emerging technologies will increase the 
technology intensity  of existing careers across all sectors. A report by the Burning Glass 
Institute  found that 22% of all jobs in the U.S. economy as of 2023 include at least one 
“data science skill,” with the highest share of data -skill job postings in utilities (36%), 
manufacturing (32%), and agriculture (30%). Not every worker will build the next AI 
algorithm or become a data scientist, but nearly every American will need to leverage 


2 data and AI to maintain a competitive edge in their sector or risk losing entire industries 
to other countries who do the same. This unprecedented economic growth will only be 
captured by the countries whose workers are prepared in data and AI basics.  
U.S. educators are mostly unsupported to teach students about AI and other emerging 
technologies. An analysis of math educators nationally found that teachers are least 
confident to teach about data and statistics , as well as technology integration , compared 
to other content categories. Computer science was the least popular credential  for K -12 
educators to pursue as recently as the 2018 –2019 school year. These challenges 
translate to student opportunities and outcomes. As of 2023, only 5.8% of our high 
school students are enrolled  in foundational computer science courses. Introductory 
basics in data or AI are typically not covered  even if they exist in some state standards. 
As a result, students’ foundational data literacy has declined between one and three 
grade levels  steadily over the past decade, varying disproportionately by race and 
geography, with losses only accelerated by the pandemic.  
China, India, Germany, Canada, and the U.K. have all made investments  to 
dramatically reshape the student experience for the world of AI and train teachers to 
educate a modern, digitally -prepared workforce. While the U.S. made early research & 
development investments in computer science and data science education through th e 
National Science Foundation, we have no teacher workforce ready to implement these 
innovations in curriculum or educational technology. The number of individuals 
completing a teacher preparation  program has fallen 25% over the past decade; long -
term forecasts suggest at least 100,000 shortages annually , teachers themselves are 
discouraging others from joining their own profession  (especially in STEM), and 
preparing to teach digital skills such as computer science was the least popular option  
for prospective educators to pursue. There is still consistent evidence that young people 
or even current professionals remain interested in teaching as a possible career, but 
only if we create the conditions to translate that interest into action. U.S. p olicymakers 
have a narrow window to leverage the strong interest in AI to energize the education 
workforce, and ensure future graduates are globally competitive for the digital frontier.  
To address the critical needs of recruiting and supporting educators to teach AI and 
data literacy, the Trump Administration should implement the following policy actions:  
Recommendation 1. Launch a Grand Challenge for AI -Era Teacher Preparation 
Create a national challenge via www.Challenge.Gov  to identify the most innovative 
teacher recruitment, preparation, and training programs to prepare and retain educators 
for teaching in the era of AI. Challenge requirements should be minimal and flexible to 

3 encourage innovation, but may include the creation of teacher leadership opportunities, 
peer-network sites for professionals, and digital classroom resource exchanges.  
Recommendation 2. Update Areas of National Need 
To enable existing scholarship programs to support AI readiness, the U.S. Department 
of Education should add “Artificial Intelligence,” “Data Science,” and “Machine Learning” 
to GAANN Areas of National Need  under the Computer Science and Mathematics 
categories to expand eligibility for Masters -level scholarships for teachers to pursue 
additional study in these critical areas. The number of higher education programs in 
Data Science education has significantly increased  in the past five years, with a small 
but increasing number of emerging Artificial Intelligence programs.   
Recommendation 3. Expand and Simplify Key Programs for Technology -Focused 
Training  
The President should direct the U.S. Secretary of Education, the National Science 
Foundation Director, and the Department of Defense Education Activity Director to add 
“Artificial Intelligence, Data Science, Computer Science” as competitive priorities wher e 
appropriate for existing grant or support programs that directly influence the national 
direction of teacher training and preparation, including the STEM Corps  (NSF), the 
Robert Noyce Scholarship Program  (NSF), and the DoDEA Professional Learning 
Division , and the Apprenticeship Building America  grants from the U.S. Department of 
Labor. These terms could be added under prior “STEM” competitive priorities, such as 
the STEM Education Acts of 2014  and 2015 for “Computer Science,”  and framed under 
“Digital Frontier Technologies.”  
In addition, the 119th Congress should authorize the National Science Foundation to 
create two programs to support pre -service and in -service educators:  
1.A national Digital Frontier Teaching Corps , a three -year fellowship opportunity
covering summertime pay for high -potential educators to conduct intensive study
in AI, data science, and computing foundations. The DFT Corps would be a
prestigious and materially meaningful program to both impart digi tal technical
skills and transform the social perception of the teaching profession. The DFT
Corps would include:
a.Educator scholarships for full summertime pay
b.A low -barrier digital application process for individuals to apply for funding
directly from the NSF or an intermediary third -party organization
c.Automatic enrollment in local site -based training sites, including college -
level coursework (computer science, data science, artificial intelligence,
quantum computing) and peer -based pedagogical training

4 d.Tax-based verification for program completion status
e.Federal loan forgiveness upon successful program completion
f.Federal recognition awards of schools employing DFT Corps educators
g.Eligibility to apply for DFT Corps training site leadership upon successful
program completion
2.Teacher College Innovation Grants , a competitive NSF grant program for
modernizing teacher preparation programs and teacher licensure models.
Teacher College Innovation Grants would provide research funding and capacity
to evaluate DFT Corps training sites and ensure lessons learned are q uickly
integrated back into teacher preparation programs. Competitive priorities would
be made for:
a.Proposals that develop and/or scale new methods -style courses for
teaching digital technology (i.e., computational thinking, data literacy, AI
literacy) to students across traditional school subjects
b.Proposals that develop new models for teacher preparation, leveraging
online learning or other digital training systems that result in lower
program costs
c.Proposals that focus on building or modernizing teacher preparation
capacity in majority -rural communities
Lastly, Congre ss should direc t the NSF to expand focus on translating evidence on 
AI teaching to school s and district s by maintaining support fo r the NSF Discovery 
Research PreK-12 Progra m Resource Cente r on Transformative Education Research 
and Translation (DRK-12 RC)  progra m and the expand the NSF Translation and 
Diffusion (TD) grant program. The DRK-12 RC progra m could be utilized to wo rk with 
multi-secto r constituencie s to accelerate the identification and scaling of evidence-
based practice s for AI, data science, compute r science, and othe r emerging tech fields. 
Than k you fo r considering these action s at an important time in ou r nation’ s history. AI 
and data litera cy are crucial to ou r nation’ s competitivene ss and economi c growth.  
Please do not hesitate to reach out to Zarek Drozda, Executive Director of Data 
Science 4 Everyone if you have questions or if there is anything that Data Science 4 
Everyone can do to support AI and data literacy efforts. 
This document i s approved fo r publi c dissemination. The document contain s no 
business-proprieta ry or confidential information. Document content s ma y be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated document s without 
attribution. 

