3/13/2025  via FDMS  
 
To Whom It May Concern, I represent Modern Logic, a Minnesota- based digital technology 
company that works in highly advanced technology such as mobile apps, cloud computing, and 
AI. We are strong proponents of AI, but we also believe that the best value wi ll be created 
through effective public/private partnerships. We advocate for a balanced regulatory approach that keeps business and societal needs in mind. Given the transformative nature of AI in every aspect of society, some regulation is needed in areas that will support the population as it undergoes significant transition. While we as businesses focus on growth, economic opportunity, and employment, we must rely on meaningful support from legislators and regulators to provide an environment where we can thrive. This includes public funding of re-education, working with public and private colleges to ensure the workforce is prepared or re-trained, and safety support to ensure that bad actors don't damage the economy (or lives) with poorly tested technology. From a regulatory approach, working with those who understand the technology to regulate its use instead of regulating the technology itself will create the best outcome for everyone. For example, regulating an individual technology (such as LLMs) will ultimately fail due to the rapid advancement in the field. However, regulation that targets the use of AI in specific contexts and settings and subjects more mission -critical or life -critical applications to additional scrutiny will 
protect everyone while not overregulating less mission- critical use cases. Moderate, meaningful, 
and pragmatic regulation of AI can create economic opportunity for everyone in the US. In particular, collaboration of government, private businesses, and universities will create the best outcomes for everyone. “This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused 
by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.” 
 


