From: E. Gershman
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Friday, March 7, 2025 9:09:51 AM
“This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no  
business-proprietary or confidential information.
Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action  
Plan and associated documents without attribution.”
Optimizing AI Industry
To optimize the intelligence of AI actions, neural networks must act
according to the principles of epistemology .
Therefore, neural networks must receiv e learning and analyzed text  
information in the format of semantic units – descriptions of 
elementary  properties of objects, operate with these units, and 
generate output  messages in the format of semantic units.
Using information formatted according to the principles of  
epistemology will significantly increase the profitability of the  
production and application of AI.
One of the main functions of AI should be the detection of semantic  
errors in analyzed texts – incorrect words, logical contradictions, and  
inconsistencies with facts.


To minimize the likelihood of generating errors and hallucinations, AI
must function in a discussion mode.
AI bot messages should be checked by another AI bot or even two botsto detect errors.AI bots should present discussions of their errors to users, who willparticipate in the discussions and determine the persuasiveness of thebots' arguments.
AI uses both reliable information and false information and often doesnot distinguish true information from false.If several alternative hypotheses on the content of the output messageare known, the AI should communicate all such hypotheses to users,who will determine the persuasiveness and possible erroneousness ofthe hypotheses.AI should collect user assessments of the credibility of informationsources and communicate them to users.
For the effectiveness of AI-user interactions to be optimal, usersmust adhere to the principles of epistemology.Therefore, the dissemination of AI technologies should be accompaniedby the propagation of scientific formatting of semantic information andthe formalization of the intellectual activity of users.Manufacturers of AI technologies should include descriptions of theseprocedures in the manuals for using these technologies.


Corporations producing AI systems must persuade the US corporate
business community to implement these epistemic procedures by
promoting their intelligent process practices.To do this, they must implement these procedures in their internalactivities – in document formats, in management processes, and indecision making – and publish information about these procedures andtheir high efficiency.
The development of AI technologies will stimulate the application of theprinciples of epistemology in all intellectual fields  – in economics,
science, education, etc.Mass compliance with these principles will cause an economiceffect greater than the use of AI technologies.The joint use of the principles of epistemology and AI technologies willcreate their additional synergistic effect.
The spread of AI will qualitatively change not only technologies andbusinesses but even social systems.Therefore, the US Government should create the Public Council to
optimize the social effects of AI.Members of this Council should be corporations – creators of AItechnologies, scientific institutes, representatives of the Government,business associations, professional unions.This Council will create bills and recommendations for the development


and investment of AI technologies.
This Council will operate on the Internet, constantly, based on the
principles of epistemology.
The possible unprofitability of AI technologies will cause not only lossesto investors but also the impossibility of recouping part of the AIindustry.Therefore, part of the AI data centers will be non-profit and public.They will belong to social associations, municipal organizations, andgovernment agencies.
One of the main intellectual functions of people and social systems isthe Choice.People, businesses, and societies spend a lot of effort, time, andresources on this function.People choose goods and services, places of work and residence,marriage partners, doctors, lawyers.Businesses choose partners, business models, products, technologies,locations, logistics, workers.Societies choose places to build new settlements, objects in them,production, transport routes, infrastructure.
AI neural networks are able to effectively search for options for ways tosatisfy these needs, detect possible errors in them and reject erroneous
options, compare options according to utility criteria and recommend the


best ones.
These functions are relatively simpler and more formalizable compared  
to complex planning and innovation management processes.
At the same time, these functions are very widespread and can 
generate profits.
Thus, the Choice function should be the primary and main 
direction of development of commercial AI technologies.
The archaic US PTO patent system causes $ hundreds of billions in  
losses to the US economy every year.
AI will not be able to operate effectively in the existing system due to its  
cumbersomeness and overflow of low-quality patent information. 
Reforming the patent system according to the principles of epistemology   
will maximize the effectiveness of AI in this system and significantly 
improve the functioning of the technological sectors of the economy.
"The Scientific System of Collective Discussions and Evaluations"  
will provide opportunities to adequately assess the reliability, value, and 
errors of scientific papers and information sources and will increase the  
effectiveness of scientific activity several times.
The scientific community sabotages the creation of such systems


because they will clearly show the triviality, insignificance, and
erroneousness of most scientific papers.
Corporations that create AI technologies are interested in using reliableknowledge and minimizing false knowledge to 
learn neural networks;
therefore, they should initiate the creation and widespread use of suchsystems.
In order to minimize layoffs, professional associations of specialistssabotage the use of AI and falsify sham errors in its work.Doctors' associations are the main obstacle to the use of AI in medicine.They claim that AI is not capable of diagnosing diseases andrecommending treatments. Although today, AI determines correctdiagnoses and treatments twice as well as most doctors.The main method to overcome such sabotage is the creation ofconsumer and business associations that will hire competent andobjective experts and, according to their conclusions, will license AItechnologies and systems, including medical ones.
Higher schools, colleges, and universities will stop archaic andineffective lecture teaching.They will mainly train students' practical skills.AI tutors will personally give theoretical knowledge to students.Students will practice in production, in offices, in research institutes.Such education will maximize efficiency and minimize cost.


Scientific functions will be separated from universities and transferred to  
scientific institutes.
Multimodal AI polygraphs will simultaneously analyze physiological  
processes, facial expressions, voice, handwriting, gestures, motor skills,  
and brain MRI of examinees.
Such AI polygraphs will reliably detect lies with a probability of 99.9%.  
Their widespread use will minimize crime, fraud, and espionage to  
almost zero.
Respectfully, E. Gershman 
___


