2201 Cooperative Way, Suite 400
Herndon, VA 20171  
www.edgeconnex.com  
Page  1 March 15, 2025  
Faisal D’Souza, NCO  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  
Executive Office of the President  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue Alexandria, VA 22314 
Submitted by email to 
Re: Request for Information (RFI) on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan 
(“Plan”) .  
Introduction  
EdgeConneX  supports the Office of Science and Technology Policy’s (OSTP) efforts to de velop 
an actionable plan to support  the United States’ leadership in  the development and 
deployment of  artificial intelligence (AI) technologies . We are grateful for the opportunity to 
contribute to this RFI  and hope to be a close partner of th e Trump  Administration as it seeks to 
address the myriad policy issues which serve as limiting factors for the advancement of the AI 
economy.  
In a very real sense, data centers are launchpads. We don’t create cloud services, AI models, or 
streaming content. But we enable, empower, and accelerate these, and, by extension, virtually 
every other major industry in the world. From agriculture to transportation, healthcare to 
technology, manufacturing to logistics, they all rely on today’s digital infrastru cture platforms, 
which originate and terminate in the world’s data centers.  
Our recommendations address policy challenges which , in our view, are the largest limiting 
factors for the deployment of  data centers  - the center of the digital economy. Data center s are 
whe re the energy  industry  meets comput ing capabilities  to connect consumers and enterprises 
to online services which advance the modern economy . These facilities are hubs of  physically 
interconnected industries, and as such there are several federal policy issues that could  impact 
our work .  
About EdgeConneX  
Founded in 2009, EdgeConneX is focused on driving innovation and helping our customers 
define and deliver their own unique vision for the Edge, at any scale, in any market worldwide, 
for any requirement.  Today, with headquarters in Northern Virginia, Singapore, and 
Amsterdam, we are building tomorrow’s data center infrastructure . 


  
2201 Cooperative Way, Suite 400  
Herndon, VA 20171  
  
  
www.edgeconnex.com  
 
Page  2 Delivering innovative and proximate data center solutions ranging from 40kW to 100MW or 
more, we work closely with our customers to provide the scalable capacity, power, and 
connectivity they need to meet the growing demands of their business and their end  users. In 
turn, our customers’ content, connectivity, cloud services or any data requirement can be 
securely delivered with enhanced performance and lower latency to any device, anywhere.  
Since late 2013, EdgeConneX has  over 80 data centers built and in development, including Edge 
Data Centers® and a growing number of regional and hyperscale solutions across North 
America, Europe, Asia Pacific, and South America, creating a new Edge of the Internet.  
 
EdgeConneX continues to move the Internet to where it is most needed – into local markets 
across the country and around the globe. We recognize that demand for data, content, cloud 
services, and ubiquitous computing is growing each day and that quality del ivery of this content 
requires a rapid response, global expertise, and a focus on delivering sustainable data center 
solutions worldwide.  
 
Policy Recommendations  
 
1.) Collaborate with state and local governments to reduce permitting burdens by setting 
standards for processing applications  related to the construction of data centers and 
related energy infrastr ucture.  
2.) Utilize federal programs to incentivize and expand the growth of  our nation’s  skilled  
trade  labor work force, including  specialized construction trades.  
3.) Liaise  with state governments to ensure that public and private  strategic investments in 
AI infrastructure can be deployed in a timely manner, and in a way that benefits 
American communities  across the country.  
4.) Direct federal agencies to expedite transmission line approvals to improve the capacity 
and resiliency of our nation’s energy transmission grid.  
5.) Continue making strategic investments  in federal  R&D  efforts  that can accelerate the 
adoption of new power generation capabilities.  
6.) In international markets of strategic importance to the U.S., we must ensure that U.S. 
companies can remain competitive  – from land acquisition through project construction  
– to protect foreign market access so that American  companies benefit from technology 
transitions at home and abroad.  The US Government should work to protect US vendors  
from discrimination abroad ; it is an economic and national security imperative that US 
companies are supported , and can remain competitive against foreign competitors in 
major markets.  
 
 
 
 


2201 Cooperative Way, Suite 400
Herndon, VA 20171  
www.edgeconnex.com  
Page  3 Powering and Empowering AI Infrastructure Deployment 
Data centers are significant consumers of electrical power, housing cooling units, servers, 
networking and storage equipment, and other devices, all of which require 24x7 availability and 
operation. Much of this power has traditionally been generated using fossil fuels that 
contribute to significant carbon emission, and shifting to more sustainab le energy can be 
challenging.  
A key resource required by all data centers is electrical power, and as the reach and adoption of 
the Internet and digital business transformation have grown, data center electricity usage has 
grown significantly even as overall efficiency has improved. Ac cording to recent analysis from 
Boston Consulting Group, data centers already make up roughly 2.5 percent of total U.S. 
electricity demand, but exploding demand for AI could drive that to 7.5 percent by 2030 .1 
Further, there are indications that improvements in Power Usage Efficiency (PUE) have slowed, 
which may accelerate energy consumption going forward. This is due in large part to older, less 
efficient data centers remaining in service, making further reduc tions toward a 1.0 industry -
wide PUE challenging even with newer data centers coming online.  
We recommend directing federal agencies to expedite transmission line approvals to improve 
the capacity and resiliency of our nation’s energy transmission grid. EdgeConneX selects 
locations for  data center projects based on the needs of its customers, and location selection is 
heavily dependent on the availability of power supply . To provide high -latency services amidst 
increasingly high demands for data throughput, data centers need to be constructed close to 
major populations hubs, however , those markets are the first to become energy -constrained – 
both in supply, and in transmission throughput.   
We recommend that Congress and the Administration continue making strategic investments 
in federal R&D efforts that can accelerate the adoption of new power generation capabilities.  
To solve  for power constraints  in target US markets,  ECX has started building hydrogen -ready 
natural  gas power plants  – collocated with our data center builds - to meet the immediate 
needs of our customers as a stop -gap solution to longer -term, renewable energy supply.  
It is our strategic vision that, in the future, renewable energy solutions can supply 24/7 power 
generation for our data center builds. Natural gas engines and turbine s are currently available 
to offset local gaps in power supply , and they are also convertible facilities which may be 
converted to cleaner hydrogen fuel when available .2 
1 https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/impact -genai -electricity -how -fueling -data -center -boom -vivian -lee/ 
2 https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe -releases -new -report -evaluating -increase -electricity -demand -data -
centers  


  
2201 Cooperative Way, Suite 400  
Herndon, VA 20171  
  
  
www.edgeconnex.com  
 
Page  4 Federal R&D efforts should continue to revolutionize energy solutions, while also working to 
incorporate best practices into the private sector. In our view, small modular nuclear reactors 
are a possible solution, albeit untested  in commercial applications , and their integration into 
existing grid infrastructure will take at least a de cade until a fully viable solution to support data 
center energy demands. Photovoltaic and wind energy, paired with battery storage, are high -
cost and not currently scalable t o meet the large, immediate demands for energy supply.  
ECX is putting renewables solution s to work in the US with a 1  Gigawatt  campus  planned for 
deployment in a major market where  other  power  generation solutions are still several years 
away . However, these are hig h-cost projects, and the scalability of these renewable energy 
solutions are not applicable for all deployments.  
Making AI Local  
Over the past decade, data centers have moved physically  closer to both enterprises and the 
American consumer as the demand for data to be pushed to the edge has caused  data centers 
and interconnection facilities to move closer to locations of high demand. However, the 
placement of these facilities is often a complex equation which depends on availability of 
energy supply, transmission grid efficiency, and telecommunications access , in addition to a 
broad range of on -the-ground factors.  
With over 30 deployments within the U.S., we are responsive to a growing number of 
constituencies, many with diverse social and regulatory priorities and processes. Our customers 
demand practical, sustainable options for energy, water, land, and operations  – and oftentimes, 
so do our partners in state and local governments. As a data center provider, we are 
accountable not only to our customers , but also directly to  American communities for the 
construction of large -scale, longitudinal construction projects , each with their own unique 
footprint and logistical and community -based challenges.  
We recommend that the Administration work closely with state and local governments to 
create more ubiquitous standards for the construction and deployment of data centers. State 
and local governments are a prime constituency of data center providers ; unlike software 
developers and content creators which run o n the infrastructure that we build, we are the 
primary interface with local governments as we seek to acquire land, permit facilities, and hire 
skilled labor across diverse localities. Given the size an d scope of these construction projects, 
unnecessary delays can have a burdensome impact on the cost and speed at which new 
facilities can be built, which in turn will have a direct impact on the deployment of new AI 
enabled services in American communities.  
 
 
 
 


2201 Cooperative Way, Suite 400
Herndon, VA 20171  
www.edgeconnex.com  
Page  5 Building Generational E mployment Opportunities  
Data centers  – even the smaller -scale Edge Data Centers (EDCs) that our company is known for 
–are extraordinarily large construction projects  which rely upon a resilient, skilled labor force in
local communities across the United States. After acquiring land and receiving the requisite
permits  and licenses to begin a new build – which may alone take months or years in some
cases – the real work begins  to construct these facilities which have highly specialized
requirements to meet the energy and efficiency demands of our customers while ensuring
stable , secure operations of a facility.
We recommend utilizing federal programs that can  incentivize and expand the growth of our 
nation’s skilled trade labor workforce, including specialized construction trades.  These 
construction projects are typically multi -year efforts and require a broad range of skilled 
laborers.  These individual projects create thousands of jobs , either directly or indirectly, 
through the hiring of construction contractors which work locally to source and retain laborers 
that can commit to long -term workflows.   
Across existing EdgeConneX projects sites within the US, labor shortages have contributed to an 
average labor premium increase of 20% as our company often has to pay advanced retainers 
for skilled laborers over long contract terms , pulling those laborers away from other projects.  
Large -scale data centers can require thousands of laborers over a multi -year construction 
duration . This often challenges local communities to deliver other public and private 
infrastructure projects in a timely manner. In our industry, and across other large -scale land 
developments, the supply of skilled labor falls far below the demand, driving up costs and  
delaying the timeframe for delivering new AI -enabled products and services.  
We recommend pursuing a nationwide push to incentivize scaling workforce development 
programs within communities where supply is limited. Federally -supported training programs, 
like technical education and apprenticeship initiatives, should more closely pa rtner with 
industries that have a high demand nexus – like data center providers – which can help provide 
training resources, while also  develop ing specialized expertise in AI -related subspecialities 
which will be necessary for the completion of  complex projects  across the US  for the 
foreseeable future.  
Conclusion  
Thank yo u for the opportunity to contribute to this Artificial Intelligence Action Plan . 
EdgeConneX supports the Office of Science and Technology Policy’s (OSTP) efforts to develop 
an actionable plan to support the United States’ leadership in the development and 


  
2201 Cooperative Way, Suite 400  
Herndon, VA 20171  
  
  
www.edgeconnex.com  
 
Page  6 deployment of artificial intelligence (AI) technologies . We are encourage d by th e Trump 
Administration’s continued interest in championing AI policy, and we  hope to be a close partner 
as you seek to address the myriad policy issues which serve as limiting factors for the 
advancement of the AI economy.  
 
Our business has a direct and immediate impact on communities in the US and across the 
world. We are building the  Internet’s edge, ensuring that enterprise customers and individual 
consumers can  connect to  meet their data needs . Over the last decade, that edge has changed 
drastically, and to adequately support the future AI economy, we will need to continue to 
deploy EDCs quickly, and in a manner which supports the sustainability and resiliency of our 
nation’s energy grid . We also must seize the opportunity  to benefit the American labor force , 
expanding opportunities for skilled laborers around the country to benefit from the rapid 
growth of data centers which will be necessary to facilitate the broader adoption of AI 
technologies.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government 
in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  


