1 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action 
Plan and associated documents without attribution . 
COMMENTS FROM THE EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE ON THE 
REQUEST FOR INFORMATION ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN 
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (AI) ACTION PLAN  
March 15, 2025  
The Edison Electric Institute (EEI) appreciates the opportunity  to submit comments to the 
Office of Science and Technology Policy  on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence  
(AI) Action Plan  through a request for information by the Networking and Information 
Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO) at 
the National Science Foundation . Directed by the Presidential Executive Order on 
January 23, 2025, the plan will identify the actions needed to develop and enhance 
America’ s AI dominance.  OSTP seeks input on “energy consumption and efficiency” 
among other priority topics.  EEI members are committed to making electric grid 
investments that support the growth of AI and data centers.  
The Edison Electric Institute (EEI) is the association that represents all U.S. investor -
owned electric companies. EEI members provide electricity to more than 250 million 
Americans and operate in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. The electric po wer 
industry  provides electricity to more than 250 million Americans  and supports more than 
7 million jobs in communities across the United States while working to meet the needs 
of communities across the United States.   
EEI members will invest more than $ 200 billion this year to make the energy grid 
smarter, cleaner, more dynamic, more flexible, and more secure; diversify the nation’s 
energy mix; and integrate new technologies that benefit both customers and the 
environment . These investments allow for utilities to be agile and support new types of 
load demand, including datacenters , with a diverse resource mix that includes natural gas 
generation playing a critical role in maintaining affordability and reliability while 
integrating and accelerating the development and deployment of renewable resources and 
critical new carbon -free technologies . 
I.The Cornerstone of Modern Society
The electric grid is the cornerstone of modern society , enabl ing virtually every aspect of 
daily life. Electric  companies  invest in the e lectric  grid, supporting resilience and the 


   
 
2 
 ability to deliver power in the face of both manmade and natural threats while also 
keeping costs as low as possible for customer s through economies of scale and more than 
a century of operational experience.  The grid is constantly evolving and a dding new large 
loads, like data  centers ; extraordinary growth and scale  is something that it can 
accommodate  effectively . Our members serve residential and commercial customers , as 
well as  critical customers like military installations, hospitals, water treatment facilities , 
and key manufacturing operations . 
 
In addition to enabling modern life, the electricity subsector is part of the broader energy 
sector, one of 16 critical infrastructure sectors defined in Presidential Policy Directive -21 
and National Security Memorandum -22.1 The private sector owns and operates a 
significant portion of this critical infrastructure, and these assets, systems, and networks 
are considered vital to U.S. economic and national security. In addition to the criticality 
of electricity for everyday use, EEI members also appreciate the impact the growth of 
domestic AI has on national security and the economy , and sees  the success of a U.S. AI 
Plan as critical to  enhancing  both strategic imperatives . 
 
Electric  companies are well-position ed, equipped , and ready to meet the electricity needs 
of the customers and communities we are privileged to serve ; and the modern electric 
grid is an enabler that supports all other critical infrastructure sectors, especially those 
that support national security and U.S. economic competitiveness .2 As the U.S. leads the 
world toward a more digital economy, new data centers must be built to meet the 
operational needs support ing that transition  and, in particular , the increased usage of AI.  
 
The increase in the use of AI also will mean a significant increase in the amount of 
energy load that is needed to power it. A 2023 survey of Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission filings showed that grid planners nearly doubled the five -year demand 
growth forecasts from 2.6 to 4.7 percent, with 10 planning areas reporting most of the 
increase. Some experts have indicated that th ese forecasts may underestimate demand, 
particularly from data centers and to support AI. For example, a 2024 report by the 
Electri c Power Research Institute (EPRI) projected that data centers will grow to 
consume up to 9.1 percent of U.S. electricity generation annually by 2030, compared to 
an estimated 4 percent today .3 This demand growth follows nearly two decades of 
minimal net electricity demand and is occurring in a higher -cost environment and at a 
time when it is harder to site and permit new energy infrastructure.  We only anticipate 
that these estimates will increase.  
 
1 The White House, National Security Memorandum on Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience, 
Daily Comp. Pres. Docs., 2024 DCPD No. 202400358 at 17 -18 (Apr. 30, 2024) (National Security 
Memorandum or NSM -22).  
2 Presidential Policy Directive No. 21, 3 C.F.R. 317 (2013  https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/the -
press -office/2013/02/12/presidential -policy -directive -critical -infrastructure -security -and-resil ) 
3 Electric Power Research Institute , Data Centers Could Consume up to 9% of U.S. Electricity 
Generation by 2030 , PR Newswire  (May 29, 2024)  


3 To date, every state in the country has a data center located in it, and each of these more 
than 3,000 projects have taken careful planning and consideration.4 Through the 
electricity subsector’s work with all interested stakeholders, these projects illustrate what 
is possible within our country  by leveraging the extraordinary platform of the energy grid 
to meet demand for resilient, affordable electricity .  
As the Administration considers the path forward to ensure the United States is 
positioned as the world leader in AI, it should recognize the critical roles that electric 
companies play in developing reliable supply resources and ensuring that power from 
those resources is delivered in the most secure and resilient manner . The Administration 
should develop and implement coordinated public policy approaches across multiple 
federal agencies that support and build on electric companies ’ successful track record of  
operating, modernizing and expanding the cornerstone of the modern society, the U.S. 
electric grid.  
EEI looks forward to working with OSTP and the Administration on its AI plans to 
ensure that energy infrastructure is developed in holistic, prudent, and tailored processes, 
with the participation of infrastructure operators and grid experts. This expertise is critical 
to ensuring the broader system can both plan for and integrate complicated demand and 
supply in near -real-time to ensure a resilient, reliable, available, and affo rdable energy 
grid for all.  
II.Utilities Have A Long  History of Adding Large Electric Loads, Including
Data Centers
Demand for electricity is growing in regions across the country as more energy is needed 
to power data centers and the increasing penetration of AI applications, as well as 
domestic manufacturing facilities and new sectors of the economy that are electrifying.  
America’s electric companies have been at the forefront in partnering with new data 
centers to enable timely interconnections to the grid. Electric companies have announced 
numerous agreements and partnerships to facilitate data  center development. In other 
cases, electric companies have pursued proactive investments in expanded transmission 
and generation capacity that have subsequently driven datacenter development in nearby 
localities. These instances demonstrate electric compa nies’ ability to proactivel y plan and 
invest in transmission and generation infrastructure that can facilitate data  center 
development while achieving broader benefits for existing customers  and communities . 
Importantly, t hese instances also demonstrate electric companies’ ability to build quickly. 
Leveraging the existing model laid forth by electric companies will ensure that novel, 
4 Data Center Map , USA Data Centers , https://www.datacentermap.com/usa/  (last visited Mar. 12, 
2025)  


4 untested approaches are not utilized to support the digital transformation  so critical to 
U.S. security and competitiveness . 
With a long history and workforce dedicated to building and maintaining the energy grid, 
along with the ability to access and deploy large amounts of low -cost capital, EEI ’s 
member  companies  are uniquely positioned to meet growing demand and address 
evolving risks. When a new large load customer is identified, there is an extensive 
planning process that must be undertaken to ensure reliable delivery of power to the 
customer. In addition to co nsiderations for the new customer, electric companies also are 
responsible for reliability for their entire  service territory,  as well as coordinating with 
other nearby utilities, ensuring all customer demand, including nativ e load growth, can be 
met simultaneously. Sometimes this requires building new infrastructure (e.g., a new 
substation) to support both goals of economic development and the provision of 
affordable and reliable power across the service territory. Adding new technologies to the 
grid also can support flexible operations and datacenter interconnections.  To maintain 
affordability for customers, applications of new technologies cannot be indiscriminate 
installations; the nature and scale of benefits produced by new technologies will be based 
on the specific circumstances of their use.  
There exists the potential for a mutually beneficial relationship among hyperscalers and 
other technology providers who want to develop temporal and spatial computational 
flexibility with electric companies.  Dominion Energy, for example, has experience  
interconnecting data centers and other large load customers. In fact, the public utility 
serves more data centers today than the next five domestic markets combined and 
estimates total energy usage across its service territory to double in less than 15 ye ars. 
Much of this load is located in Northern Virginia, which is commonly referred to as the 
“Data Center Capital of the World ”.5 
The development of a standard terminology in the U.S. for flexible operation of any type 
of assets, including data centers , would be a positive step for OSTP to support.  This is a 
significant impediment  to the rapid deployment of flexible programs, even when multiple 
parties want to cooperate. This effort would benefit from the inclusions of the appropriate 
Sector Risk Management Agencies, who have the sector -specific expertise and 
established partnerships to jump right into driving solutions . Electric companies stand 
ready to work with the Administration  to advance AI goals.  
III.Data Center Connections Should Leverage the Uniquely Effective Role of
Electric Companies and the Energy Grid .
5 Kyle Hannah, Director of Electric Transmission Strategic Initiatives, Dominion Energy Inc. , Pre-
Technical Conference Statement , Docket No. AD24 -11-000 , Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission  (Oct. 16 , 202 4). 


   
 
5 
 The electric grid provides an extraordinary platform to support the deployment of 
resilient, reliable power to address needs on a large scale. An integrated, system -wide 
approach that considers the full range of technology, planning , and operational solutions, 
as well as electric companies’ expertise in siting, permitting, and community engagement, 
will support rapid, responsible infrastructure development. Electric companies have a 
holistic point of view, informed by our position as regulated entities, that considers not 
just new connections, but broader impacts  and opportunities . 
 
Data center loads , like other large electric loads, may impact grid reliability and customer 
affordability in a way that needs to be managed as part of holistic, comprehensive 
resource planning . The regulatory model that underlies the electric sector has 
accommodated significant demand growth at different periods in the nation’s history; this 
model provides stability and will facilitate partnerships between electric companies and 
data centers to m eet this extraordinary period of new growth.  
 
EEI’s members , the nation’s investor -owned electric companies,  are in the best position 
to ensure that these goals can be achieved  affordably and share the Administration’s goals 
of advancing these priorities  for both energy and AI dominance . In fact, electric 
companies have unique relationship s with both federal and state governments , which  
position these utilities as a critical partner to advance the Administration’s goals for AI 
dominance and ensure affordable energy costs.  
 
Under the current regulatory model, states are responsible for decisions regarding the 
reliability of the distribution system. Utilities have affirmative obligations to the  areas 
they serve to ensure reliability and affordability ,6 which have required utilities to address 
these questions before state utility commissions. Leveraging the years of experience that 
utilities have incorporating new types of large load will benefit the nation’s AI goals. To 
this end, regulatory policies that impede the timely development of  electric  infrastructure 
should be reformed to enable growth  of both transmissions and g eneration resources .7 
And regulatory policy should aim to ensure flexibility and optionality with respect to 
future data center development.   
 
 
6 The Federal Power Act (FPA), the main governing statute for the electricity system, establishes the 
authority of both federal and state governments in electricity reliability. Under this model, the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (FERC) authority ov er reliability covers most of the 
generation and transmission systems in the U.S. (Alaska and Hawaii excluded). FERC, along with the 
North American Electric Reliability Corporation, oversee electric reliability. FERC’s authority does 
not extend to resource  adequacy questions. This authority is left to the states.  Section 201, Federal 
Power Act, 6 USCS § 824(a)  
7 Concentric Energy Advisors , Competitive Transmission: Experience To -Date Shows Order No. 1000 
Solicitations Fail to Show Benefits , Concentric Energy Advisors  (Feb. 
2025),  https://ceadvisors.com/publication/competitive -transmission -experience -to-date -shows -
order -no-1000 -solicitations -fail-to-show -benefits/  


6 Large scale development of data  centers will require significant new electric transmission 
infrastructure. America’s electric companies have a proven track record of planning and 
investing in electric infrastructure necessary to meet the needs of new and existing 
customers.  Thus, federal policy should seek to support and facilitate the ability of electric 
companies to make necessary investments to drive data  center development.  A critical 
means of doing so would be to stabilize federal policy regarding electric transmission , 
which will improve the timing, efficiency and cost -effectiveness of  transmission planning 
and expansion . For example, t ransmission planning require ments that increase 
administrative delays in designing new needed facilities create additional costs for 
customers and are a hurdle to efficient infrastructure expansion.  Additionally, policies 
should enable the construction and interconnection of new generation to meet this 
demand.  
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) should revisit its 2011 decision to 
create bidding processes to determine how transmission infrastructure is developed  as 
these add time to the development process . This will also foster more collaborative 
project design among transmission planners. FERC should also retain the financial 
incentives it has already approved for use by many transmission developers. These are 
flexible tools that can be used to promote pr oactive investments in transmission 
infrastru cture that support development of datacenters.   
Capital investments that can be recovered from customers need to be approved by a state 
utility commission. While essential for reliability, this is also a way to ensure equitable 
treatment of all customers. With built in protection for the interests of th e general public, 
regulated utilities are responsible for ensuring that all loads are served. Because of this 
unique position in the energy sector, electric companies will make critical decisions about 
operations of the electric grid.  
EEI members have achieved this through work with our state and federal regulators, who 
are charged with ensuring that rates remain reasonable, and through a tested model built 
on a culture of safety, security, and reliability to ensure access and affordability for all 
customers. Electric utilities are positioned to use that model to help the Administration 
meet its AI dominance goals while also keeping prices affordable.  
IV.Data Center Integration and Operation
By connecting  to the grid, data centers  enjoy clear reliability benefits:  
•Streamlining Interconnection Process:  Electric companies  have developed and
implemented interconnection procedures designed to reduce the time and
complexity involved in connecting new data centers to the grid. This includes
standardized application processes, clear communication channels, and dedicated
teams t o handle interconnection requests.


   
 
7 
 • Overall Grid Reliability Planning:   By leveraging their responsibility for the 
interconnected  grid—including generation, transmission, and distribution 
solutions —electric companies are uniquely positioned to identify and implement 
the least -cost strategies for serving sizable new loads, including optimizing the 
size and location of new generation and identifying sites that are most optimal for 
siting new hyperscale load.  
• Cybersecurity  and Physical Security Benefits : Grid services and utilities are 
best positioned to provide defenses against cyber threats.  Sharing a geographic 
location with a power plant will extend some physical security controls and 
protections to the data centers.  
• Grid Hardening and Storm Response/Restoration:  Utilities have a consistent 
track record in both areas, and data centers benefit from utility grid hardening 
activities and the timeliness of restorations efforts  following storms or other 
impacts to operations . 
• Energy Equipment Procurement and Delivery:  Utilities maintain robust supply 
chains to ensure the consistent availability of critical components and materials, 
minimizing disruptions and enhancing the reliability of service to data centers . 
Utilities, given our size scale are also uniquely able to leverage those attributes to 
procure needed equipment.  
• Optimizing New Datacenter Loads for Benefit of All Customers:  Integrated 
electric utilities are able to use their universality of service to optimize the costs 
and benefits of new resources necessary to serve datacenter loads for the benefit 
of all customers, while protecting the interests of all customers.  
• Grid Stability and Peak Load Management:  Load balancing during peak 
demand periods, enhancing overall grid efficiency.  
• Waste Heat Utilization:  Data centers can leverage excess heat from power 
generation for industrial or district heating applications, improving overall energy 
efficiency.  
• Microgrid and Energy Storage Integration:  Electric companies can facilitate 
the deployment of microgrids and energy storage solutions to improve resilience 
and optimize power use.  
• Optimized Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs):  By co -locating, utilities and 
data centers can negotiate more efficient long -term power contracts, reducing 
costs and securing clean energy sources.  
V. Co-Location Should be Grounded in Cost Causation Principles  
 
The integrated and networked transmission system allows electric companies to meet 
new demand, including that presented by co -located data centers efficiently and cost-
effectively.  However, co-location  provides optionality to serve d ata centers and makes 
sense for certain l arge custom ers. Overall, involving the incumbent electric company 
early on as part of the co -location siting process and leveraging the electric company 
model to do so can ensure that data center development occurs in a way that both 
enhances reliability and protect  everyday customers  whom EEI members are obligated to 
serve . Ensuring that data center  loads pay for the services and facilities they use results in 


8 just and reasonable rates for all customers .8  Additionally, robust resource  planning is 
essential to ensure reliable electric service for all customers, including  data centers, co -
located or otherwise.  
Recent activity before the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC or the 
Commission) addressing  co-location ha s gained attention . FERC conven ed a technical 
conference in November 2024 , issued an order in February 2025,  and has issued 
decisions on specific questions under the broader subject.  Where inter connected with and 
using  the grid , data centers should contribute to the cost of the network infrastructure 
providing the services  necessary to support that interconnection and provide transmission 
service. Most data centers that have been  interconnected to date do just that.   
Congress also has considered the investment required to meet the AI demand. The 
Bipartisan House Task Force on Artificial Intelligence recently observed that it is to 
maintain affordability, reliability , and availability of electricity to customers while 
protecting ratepayers .9 Establishing critical guardrails for co -located load will help 
protect affordability for all customers (residential, large commercial, and industrial). Co -
location must be done with forethought, cognizant of the reliability and cost implications, 
including  any effects on existing customers. Electric companies are focused not only on 
incorporating new large load customers, but also on ensuring that their addition does not 
drive up costs for everyday Americans.   
VI.Additional Actions to Consider for Energy Consumption and Efficiency
To enable the energy consumption and efficiency  necessary to support growth of data 
centers needed to support AI dominance, there will be a significant capital investment. A 
national plan to ensure appropriate opportunities are  available should be led by the 
Administration  and should consider all possible strategies, including tax credits , loan 
guaranties,  and grant s. Building AI at the speed necessary should not discount the 
potential adverse impact onto every day Americans and businesses who are existing 
ratepayers in an electric utility’s service territory  and who are vital to our local and 
national economies . 
To deliver on the promises of AI dominance and lowering customer  bills, th e 
Administration should consider:  
•Grants , loan guarantees  and tax credits to support generation investment,
transmission upgrades, and cybersecurity enhancements to support/promote the
increase in demand for reliable, safe, and secure energy across the U.S .;
8 Media Advisory: Data Centers 
Rule,  https://psc.ga.gov/site/assets/files/8617/media_advisory_data_centers_rule_1 -23-
2025.pdf  (Jan. 23, 2025).  
9 House Bipartisan Task Force on Artificial Intelligence , Report , House Committee on Science, Space, 
and Technology  (Dec. 17, 2024),  https://science.house.gov/2024/12/house -bipartisan -task -force -
on-artificial -intelligence -delivers -report  


9 •Due to the capacity/load profile of data centers, the U.S. should further support
central, base -load nuclear development as the long -term generation source to
support rising demand;
•Developing  support models that incentivize states to be proactive in
accommodating  and incentivizing  new data center load , aligned to federal goals ;
•Fast-track the interconnection processes associated with new generation needed to
serve large new data center customers, including priority for generation deemed
necessary to ensure resource adequacy ;
•Align transmission planning and generator interconnection processes to ensure
that generation additions driven by new load are studied in a manner that
recognizes their linkage;
•Any new regulatory frameworks around AI need to be clear and consistent w ith a
focus on accelerating the deployment of new infrastructure ; and,
•Data Center Additions that are paired new generation capacity  additions should be
prioritized, particular ly in Regional Transmission Organizations (RTO) markets.
VII.Conclusion
America’s electric companies are a critical partner to the Administration as it works to  
support and enable rapid AI growth in the U.S.  This partnership ensures  the 
Administration’s  goals of AI Dominance and Energy Affordability are successfully met 
without unintended consequences. The electricity subsector’s long -standing principle of 
cost causation requires that those who benefit from facilities and/or services pay for their 
use, and it ensures that customers are protected and considered in resource planning .   
EEI appreciates the opportunity to submit these comments and looks forward to 
collaborating with the Office of Science and Technology Policy on the Development of 
the AI Plan . Questions on these comments may be directed to Scott Aaronson , Senior 
Vice President, Energy Security & Industry Operations (  and Alex 
Bond , Executive Director, Legal and Clean Energy Policy (


