1 Before the  
OFFICE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY 
Alexandria, VA 22314  
In the Matter of  
The Development of an Artificial Intelligence 
(AI) Action Plan  ) 
) 
) 
) Docket No. 2025 -02305  
COMMENTS OF ERICSSON  
Ericsson welcomes the opportunity to respond to  the Office of Science and Technology 
Policy (“OSTP”) Request for Information (“RFI”) on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (“AI Action Plan”).1   
I.INTRODUCTION
Ericsson shares the Administration’s commitment to establishing U.S. policy that will 
enhance America’s AI leadership to promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and 
national security.  Innovators across nearly every sector of the economy are leveraging AI 
technology to deliver unprecedented benefits to the American people.  When properly executed , 
AI enhances outcomes, improves efficiency and saves time, money, and even lives by deftly 
handling massive quantities of data, facilitating quick dec ision -making, performing perilous 
tasks efficiently, improving processes, automating repetitive tasks, reducing human error, and 
more.2  Ericsson appreciates the Administration’s commitment here to ensur ing that 
unnecessarily burdensome requirements do not hamper private sector AI innovation.3   
1 Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan, 90 Fed. Reg. 9088 
(Feb. 6, 2025), https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/02/06/2025 -02305/request -for-information -on-the-
development -of-an-artificial -intelligence -ai-action -plan (“RFI”).   This document is approved for public 
dissemination.  The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information.  Document contents 
may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attributi on. 
2 See Rashi Maheshwari, Advantages of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in 2025 , Forbes (Aug. 24, 2023), 
https://www.forbes.com/advisor/in/business/software/advantages -of-ai/. 
3 RFI at 9088 -9089.  


2 
 At Ericsson, we are using AI to transform communications networks – enhancing 
network management, boosting performance, optimizing energy use and sustainability, 
increasing trustworthiness and security, and delivering new business opportunities to enterprise 
customers.4  Stakeholders across all verticals are embracing AI use cases and placing new and 
expanding demands on their communications networks – for additional capacity, speed, service 
quality, and next -generation capabilities.   
As we point out below, to meet these demands, network providers need access to more 
commercial spectrum.  Concurrently, the United States should pursue global cooperation and 
coordination that will benefit U.S. AI innovation – avoiding overbroad and ineffective restraints.  
Accelerating AI development will also require a balanced, risk -based approach to ensure the 
flexibility necessary to innovate while also guarding against significant risks as they evolve.  
Ericsson expands on these recommendations below and welcomes further engagement 
with the Administration on development of the AI Action Plan.  
II. ERICSSON IS ALREADY DELIVERING TRANSFORMATIVE AI 
BENEFITS TO COMMUNICATIONS NETWORKS AND OPERATIONS.  
Ericsson is a leader among network infrastructure makers infusing AI capabilities into 
communications networks and operations.  For example, we are using AI to : 
• Improve network planning and design with advanced analytics that provide high -
accuracy traffic forecasts, KPI predictions, bottleneck identification and load balancing 
opportunities across the network lifecycle;  
• Advance network optimization via AI -based network diagnostics that make it possible to 
proactively identify 50 percent more issues with up to 98 percent field -validated 
accuracy, increasing operational efficiency by up to 30 percent;  
 
4 See Zeljka Lemaster, Thomas Kinnman, & Andres Laya, How is intelligence transforming telecom? Five benefits 
that reveal the full value of AI , Ericsson (Mar. 27, 2023), https://www.ericsson.com/en/blog/2023/3/value -of-ai-for-
telecom -networks .   


3 •Expand  cybersecurity by using AI automation to  detect zero -day attacks, predict
upcoming attacks, detect ongoing attacks, and test and deploy new defense mechanisms
at run time;
•Enhance network operations  by taking service providers closer towards zero -touch end -
to-end automation of the network; and
•Improve customer and service experience via cognitive tuning and optimization
technologies.5
Additionally, Ericsson’s 5G smart factory in Lewisville, Texas, employs intelligent automation, 
which integrat es AI and robotics  to streamline operations, reduce human error, and increase 
productivity.6 
Looking ahead, AI will be foundational for the next generation of network technologies – 
and these networks will make new AI use cases possible.  Network s will be able to sense, 
compute, learn, reason, and act on business intent almost autonomously, and manage the ongoing 
expansion of data from an ever -increasing number of connected intelligent devices.   6G’s AI 
native architecture will enable further real-time self -optimization, enhancing network 
performance, reliability, and energy efficiency by intellige ntly managing resource allocation, 
predicting congestion, and adapting to changing conditions.  6G networks will use AI to enable 
mixed reality, autonomous mobility, sophisticated spatial sensing, and more  to provide end users 
with an immersive, personalized, seamless communication  experience.  With significantly lower 
latency (in the microseconds) and higher bandwidth (up to 100 times faster than 5G), 6G will 
enable AI -driven applications t o usher in a new era of functionality for end users.  
5 See AI in networks , Ericsson, https://www.ericsson.com/en/ai/ai -in-networks  (last visited Mar. 12, 2025). 
6 Inside Ericsson’s Cutting -Edge 5G Manufacturing Hub in the US , Manufacturing Today (May 30, 2024), 
https://manufacturing -today.com/news/inside -ericssons -cutting -edge -5g-manufacturing -hub-in-the-us/. 


4 III.AI INNOVATION DEMANDS EVER -EXPANDING NETWORK
CAPABILITIES AND WIDE -AREA, UBIQUITOUS CONNECTIVITY, AND
U.S. AI LEADERSHIP WILL REQUIRE MORE FULL POWER, LICENSED
COMMERCIAL SPECTRUM.
The emerging panoply of AI use cases is placing new demands on communications 
networks  which, in turn, requires access to more full -power licensed commercial spectrum .  AI 
algorithms require large amounts of data to learn and improve, and as more companies adopt AI 
technologies, they will need to process and analyze larger and more complex datasets.  This will 
require more internet bandwidth and faster connectivity.  In addition , AI will advance in parallel 
(and often in partnership) with other technologies  – like autonomous vehicles and IoT – that 
compound demands on the network.  
Much of this demand, moreover, will rely on ubiquitous hyperconnectivity that only 
wide -area wireless networks can provide.  For example, autonomous vehicles process data in 
real-time and need to transmit data between vehicles and cloud platforms in bulk, at speed.7  
Similarly, the proliferation of IoT devices will continue to generate vast amounts of data that 
need to be processed and analyzed by AI algorithms.8  Many IoT products – such as wearable 
healthcare devices, industrial IoT sensors, autonomous tractors, and more – perform their 
functions outside and/or on -the-go, requiring robust wireless connectivity.  Furthermore, 
generative AI (“GenAI”) applications may significantly impact future mobile network traffic, 
particularly through increased video consumption.9 
7 Ericsson expects 10% of global new car sales to be autonomous by 2030.  
8 Ericsson estimates close to 7 billion cellular IoT connections by 2029.  
9 Increased use of GenAI -driven video assistants and immersive interactions may increase both uplink and downlink 
traffic with the expansion of hyper -personalized content as well as the new AI -driven applications. Understanding 
the Impact of GenAI , Ericsson (Nov. 2024), https://www.ericsson.com/en/reports -and-papers/mobility -
report/articles/genai -impact -on-mobile -network -traffic . 


5 
 To meet these demands, wireless providers will need to make increased investments in 
capacity, quality, and capabilities – all of which require more licensed, full -power commercial 
spectrum.  U.S. leadership in AI thus requires identif ying sufficient and suitable spectrum for 
wireless broadband, especially in mid -band frequencies that support wide -area coverage and 
capacity.  To meet the forecasted demand, Ericsson estimates that up to 2.2 GHz of additional 
spectrum is necessary to realize the full potential of 6G.10  Even more will be needed  if one 
accounts for massive digital twin, radio -based sensing, and holographic communications.  
Without access to sufficient spectrum, the United States will not be positioned to realize 
the benefits of AI or seize global leadership in AI.  Licensing spectrum for wireless services on 
an exclusive -use basis, combined with flexible rights, is instrumen tal in spurring the investment 
necessary to support more network buildout  – it provides greater reliability, enhanced security, 
as well as flexibility and scalability.  A licensed spectrum pipeline offers the assured access and 
interference protection that  generates massive investment in next -generation commercial 
technologies and wide -area network deployments that trigger innovation across verticals – 
including with AI use cases.   
With this in mind, Ericsson urges the U.S. government to swiftly help repurpose 
spectrum in the Lower 3 GHz (3.1 -3.45 GHz) band, the 4.4 -4.94 band, and the 7/8 GHz (7.125 -
8.4 GHz) band .  The AI Action Plan should  prioritize deliver ing a spectrum pipeline that meets 
the needs of these proliferating technologies.  
 
10 Kumar Balachandran, Mark Racek, & Noman M. Alam, Why a National Spectrum Strategy Is Crucial for US 
Leadership , Ericsson (Oct. 18, 2023), https://www.ericsson.com/en/blog/north -america/2023/national -spectrum -
strategy -crucial -for-us-leadership . 


6 
 IV. U.S. AI DEVELOPERS WILL BENEFIT SUBSTANTIALLY BY DRIVING 
GLOBAL INTEROPERABILITY AND COORDINATION T HAT 
PROMOTE S U.S. AI INNOVATION AND ADOPTION.  
AI models have an inherently global reach with value chains that are globally integrated.  
As with the many transformative technologies, voluntary industry -led standards will facilitate the 
development and deployment of beneficial AI systems.  U.S. AI developers and deployers will 
benefit from a  unified, global, industry -led, and rules -based system for standards development .  
Under this framework, a varied ecosystem of innovators can use like technology to develop new 
products and use cases at scale.   
Innovation itself requires coordination across disparate actors.  Technologists need a 
common technical vocabulary and system of measurement to share research and findings.  
Common practices reduce development and production costs.  Moreover, widely used 
international standards increase potential market size and enhance potential applications for 
businesses and consumers.  For the United States and its partners, international standards provide 
an invaluable opportunity to ensure that security, privacy, and other shared values form the 
architecture of AI technology for generations to come.  Conversely, a fragmented standards 
ecosystem introduces barriers to interoperability and global deployment.  In the worst cases, it 
can invite foreign adversaries to seek competitive advantage by creating a negative -sum game.11 
With this in mind, OSTP’s AI Action Plan should promote strong intellectual property 
rights, advance and enforce sound governance principles, maintain multilateral cooperation, 
ensure effective coordination, build capacity for standards leadership, and inc entivize U.S. 
industry engagement in international standards bodies.  
 
11 See Sujai Shivakumar, Securing Global Standards for Innovation and Growth , CSIS (Jan. 27, 2022), 
https://www.csis.org/analysis/securing -global -standards -innovation -and-growth . 


7 V.THE UNITED STATES SHOULD TAKE A RISK -BASED APPROACH TO
ACCELERATE AI INNOVATION AND ADOPTION.
As the new Administration develops its AI Action Plan, OSTP should revive the 
balanced, risk -based approach articulated in the first Trump Administration ’s draft memorandum 
on “Guidance for Regulation of Artificial Intelligence Applications” (“OMB Draft Memo”) , 
including “ reducing unnecessary barriers to the development and deployment of AI.”12  Key to 
this strategy is avoiding “regulatory or non -regulatory actions that needlessly hamper AI 
innovation and growth .”13  This is particularly true when considering low -risk AI use cases – 
such as those discussed in these comments  in which companies like Ericsson are leveraging AI 
to optimize operations that are already automated.  
Where policymakers identify a potentially high-risk AI use case, they should first 
consider how existing laws and regulations can already address identified concerns.  For 
example, t he Federal Trade Commission Act protects against unfair and deceptive trade practices 
whether conducted in a brick -and-mortar store front, over the telephone, or using AI -assisted 
messaging.  As the OMB Draft Memo recognized, “AI applications do not necessarily raise 
novel issues” and thus policymakers should consider new regulations only after thorough 
evaluation of existing rules, opportunity costs, and potential consequences related to new 
regulation.14  
If necessary, any new AI -specific rules should be risk -based,  narrowly tailored,  
proportionate , and technologically neutral to effective ly address this wide -ranging and 
12 Memorandum from Russell T. Vought, Acting Director, to Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies, at 2, 
https://www.dwt.com/ -/media/files/blogs/financial -services -law-
advisor/2024/11/2019cats5830revdocdraftombmemoonregulationofai1010.pdf?rev=d570fead06cf470e816c87779a3
b6cd8&hash=CBCBE010E95CB9358544E49FBD614B2E  (last visited Mar. 12, 2025) (“OMB Draft Memo”).  
13 Id. 
14 Id. at 3. 


8 
 dynamically evolving technology .  As the OMB Draft Memo observed, “[i]t is not necessary to 
mitigate every foreseeable risk; in fact, a foundational principle of regulatory policy is that all 
activities involve tradeoffs.”15  We agree  and, as OMB stated, “[a]gencies should be transparent 
about their evaluations of risk and re -evaluate their assumptions and conclusions at appropriate 
intervals so as to foster accountability.”16  They should also scope the level and type of 
regulatory effort appropriate to identify and mitigate risks in proportion to the magnitude and 
nature of the consequences should an AI tool fail or succeed.17 
Ericsson  therefore encourages OSTP to embed this risk -based approach into its AI Action 
Plan.  Stakeholder -driven, consensus -based tools can play a crucial role in AI risk management 
in a way that supports the Administration’s commitment to minimizing regulatory burdens while 
promoting human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security.   
Importantly, the Action Plan should distinguish between the many applications of AI  that 
will not materially alter the risk profile of a particular function  and should not be subject to any 
new regulation s with those that may require greater scrutiny .  For instance,  AI can  improve the 
operation of systems that have already been automated  for years  using non -AI means  and that  
were previously directly controlled by humans.18  These systems are typically  already subject to 
laws and regulations intended to protect people and society.  Applying  AI does not substantially 
change the risk profile of these systems in  terms of the likelihood or consequences of adverse 
 
15 Id. at 4.   
16 Id.  
17 Id.  
18 For example, a radio base station in a cellular network must perform functions like shaping radio waves and 
controlling the tilt of antennas.  Perform ing these functions under computer control, within microseconds or 
milliseconds, has vastly improved the reliability, capacity, and performance of mobile networks.  The consequences 
of automation failing here are minor and localized: a temporary degradation i n performance in a single site.  But 
new regulations on these uses could impose undue burdens.    


9 impacts in the event of a failure.  In such cases, new restrictions can  significantly impede the ir 
use and impos e substantial opportunity costs throughout a diverse ecosystem of innovators and 
beneficiaries of AI.  The AI Action Plan should solidify the United States’ risk -based approach 
to AI policy, carefully considering targeted steps to address high -risk use cases and safeguarding 
the ability for innovators to bring the benefits of myriad other AI applications to  bear for the 
American people.  
VI.CONCLUSION
Ericsson appreciates the Administration’s commitment to removing barriers to American 
leadership in AI and our shared goal to accelerate AI innovation and adoption.  The 
recommendations above will help ensure OSTP’s AI Action Plan delivers on these objecti ves.  
Ericsson welcomes further engagement with the Administration to that end.  
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/_Jeff Marks _____________  
Jeff Marks  
Matthew Hussey  
Ericsson  
1776 I Street, NW  
Suite 240 
Washington, DC 20006  
March 14, 2025  


