3/3/2025 via FDMS  
Eric Doherty  
As one who covers multi entities in the IT world, the need for certain guidelines for AI is needed. 
Cybersecurity needs Patient record privacy needs Access and network privacy needs On the 
cybersecurity front, the need for no less than multi -factor access and identity within the AI 
access points is needed. If using AI on platforms or in data manipulation, the need for MF in any 
AI environment is necessary. Single and two -factor is not enough and bad AI actors can easily 
compromise systems. The need for pati ent health information privacy, like HIPAA, of patients 
health is a key need. With AI this can be enhanced but can also lead to easy access of those 
records. The need for strict guidelines on how access is granted and who has access to the 
information is n eeded. What areas are open and what areas that are closed within systems, to 
certain access is needed. On the AI front, IT platforms that use AI and are dealing with patient 
health records should have systems in place to protect that information. No matter  what. The 
ability to delete any and all information once it is used should be apparent. This will enhance the 
privacy of said information. There also needs to be AI rules and regulations that are fully 
documented and vetted in this space. On the access an d network privacy needs, this goes back to 
my earlier commentary. Who has access? What do they have access to? What is being done with 
the data and being used? All questions that need documentation on how it is being used and 
provided to others. In the rea lm of AI, access to the data is key. There needs to be robust 
guidelines that not only provide the proper directions on how the data is to be used but also has 
limitations on how that data can be used and where the lines of privacy are delegated. My main 
concern is that if guidelines are not put into place, the ability to "run rogue" is problematic. Last 
year, the United Health Care/United Healthcare Breach provided access to millions of patient 
records and cost the health system, and the US population, bil lions of dollars. That figure has 
still not been figured out. $50B? $100B? More? If no guidelines are put into place the potential 
of this threat happening again through the use of AI, and having windows of opportunities within 
IT systems wide open and acc essible, provides ample ability to easily gain access to this 
information.  


