From: Erin Skoog
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 11:44:32 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening  
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
From:
[Erin Skoog]
[Graphic Designer]
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for  
Information on the Development of an Artificial  
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am an everyday American who works as a graphic  
designer, providing my clients with all kinds of unique  
designs. I have worked hard for years to develop the  
skills and knowledge to build my business doing this, but  
now I fear my client base will disappear because of AI.
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like 
OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroy  
thousands of American small businesses like mine  
with their recent demand to create special carve outs 
in copyright law.
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work  
made by people. My unique work, and the work of  
hundreds of thousands of other everyday American  
creators was taken and fed into these AI systems without  
our consent or any compensation. They ingest our work,  
reassemble it, and then sell it back to our clients –
directly competing with us and cutting us out of the


marketplace.
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this
administration to create exceptions and loopholes tomake this practice of stealing American creators’copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggestingthat if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrightedwork, it is somehow suddenly “fair use”.
 
They seem to believe that anything and everything onthe internet – regardless of who owns it – should betheirs for the taking. They claim that if this administrationdoes not allow them to rewrite the law in this way, it willstifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose
of American copyright law is to protect the incentiveto create and innovate.
 
If we the American people do not own our creations, andeverything we put online will be stolen by Big Techgiants, what will be the incentive to create? If everydayAmericans create a new innovative piece of computercode, a new visual design, or a new piece of music onlyto have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft,why bother creating it in the first place? How will wepossibly make a living doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American
creators. Do not create new copyright exemptionsthat allow Big Tech companies to exploit and stealfrom creators and everyday Americans withoutpermission, compensation, or transparency.


This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on
giving away creator content to Big Tech companies, but
rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creatorsand everyday Americans give effective consent, so
that we can decide when and where our work is usedby AI systems.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage arobust licensing marketplace, so that the incentive
to create for small businesses is preserved. Our workhas immense economic value, so the valuegenerated by that work should accrue to the originalcreators, not just Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should requiretransparency from Big Tech companies, requiring
them to disclose what material is in their trainingdatasets, and label what content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistentlyimpressed by the capabilities of these AI systems, andfind them incredibly useful for many things. But weshould not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds ofthousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech byrewriting copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these
important issues.


All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


