 
   
 
 
March 1 4, 202 5 
 
Mr. Faisal D'Souza, NCO  
National Coordination Office (NCO)  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD)  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
 
Submitted electronically via email  
 
RE: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
 
Dear  Mr. D’Souza , 
 
The Entomological Society of America (ESA ) is the largest organization in the world serving the 
professional and scientific needs of entomologists and individuals in related disciplines. Founded in 
1889, ESA has nearly  7,000 members affiliated with educational institutions, science agencies, private 
industry, and government. Please accept the following comments submitted on behalf of the ESA in 
response to the “Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan” on behalf of the Office of Science 
and Technology Policy (OSTP)  and Networking and I nformation Technology Research and Development 
(NITRD) . 
 
Entomology, while focused on insects and arthropods, is a very wide and diverse discipline cutting across 
many different global challenges as well as domestic ones.  These include, but are not limited to, food 
security, vector -borne disease prevention, invasive species, and protecting biodiversity .  To that end, a 
brief survey of the membership indicate s AI is already being integrated into many of these spaces but 
there are  ample opportunities to grow in terms of helping protect American agriculture, public  health, 
military, and citizens.   
 
One challenge to all of this is that more than half of all species on Earth are insects and their relatives, 
with more than 1.5 million species described (known to science and assigned a scientific name) and at 
least that many more awaiting discovery or description. Insects are  the largest and most diverse lineage 
of living organisms,  and the amount of information required to train AI when there is so much 
biodiversity is a serious challenge.  This is e specially so when one consider s how many insects have yet to 
even be discovered.  Studying some species of insects is challenging given their small size and, in some 
cases,  the only way to distinguish one species from  another is by dissection at this time, external 
physiology is nearly identical.   Additionally, balancing the environmental impacts of AI through pollution, 
water usage, and the depletion of other natural resources poses a real risk to increasing many of the 
global challenges we are trying to address.  AI technologies offer real potential benefits to expand 
American leadership in this branch of science and today ESA wishes to offer constructive ideas and 
opportunities  on the development of these tools . 
 
To that end, we have highlighted a handful of areas where applying AI  currently  is and /or can help 
advance the field further.  However, any success in this space requires additional funding to ensure the 
development of future technologies and then align those with where data is held. As much as possible,  


data should be held by individuals instead of corporations  or government. Without a funding plan,  
however,  there is little chance of developing systems that will keep America as a leader in technology , so 
we encourage the Administration to work with Congress on developing a strategy to advance American 
competitiveness in this space .   
Agriculture:  AI can be an additional tool for integrated pest management  (IPM) , which is a science -based 
approach to pest management that relies on both chemical and non -chemical tactics to suppress pests, 
weaving together biological, cultural, physical, and chemical tools to manage pests in a way that reduces 
overall economic, health, and env ironmental risks.   AI-powered image recognition could  rapidly identify 
insect pests from images captured via tractor, drone , or satellite , helping farmers detect infes tations 
early and apply targeted treatments.  This could both save farmers money on inputs like pesticide, 
increase crop productivity  and yield , and benefit the environment by using less chemicals.  AI could also 
be used for predictive modelling  of pest outbreak s by analy zing climate , cro p, and insect population data 
to predict outbreaks and suggest proactive management strategies . 
Public Health and Vector -Borne Diseases:  AI can be deployed to help increase v ector -borne disease 
surveillance  and monitoring .  AI can track and predict the spread of disease -carrying insects like 
mosquitoes and ticks by analyzing environmental and population data, aiding in disease prevention.   AI 
models can  also process image and video data to study insect behaviors , such as feeding or mating, 
which would increase our  understanding how vectors spread diseases , especially with new and emerging 
vectors . 
Biotechnology  and biodiversity : AI can help increase the power of genetics and genomics.  AI can 
analyze massive genomic datasets of insects to identify genes associated with pesticide resistance, 
disease transmission, or beneficial traits for biotech applications.   AI could also be deployed to help 
reduce the number of insects which must be collected for biodiversity surveys, instead using images and 
video to analyze species, population density, and behaviors.  
Invasive Species:  AI could  analyze shipping and trade data alongside environmental conditions to help 
predict routes of high -risk invasive insect species  and prevent the spread and establishment on U.S. 
lands .  New technologies integrating AI could be applied at ports when cargo arrives . AI-driven 
simulations can help  identify new biocontrol opportunities by  design ing and optimiz ing the use of 
beneficial insects (like parasitoids) for controlling agricultural pests more effectively  to help speed 
laboratory testing .  This would be particularly useful applied to the foreign insects with the highest risk 
of becoming invasive species here,  so we are better prepared if they are detected after they have 
become established.  
National Security and Military Preparedness:  AI could be used for insect -borne threat detection by 
monitoring insects near military bases, identifying potential disease vectors like mosquitoes, ticks, and 
sand flies, predicting outbreaks that could affect troop health and readiness.   AI-driven drones equipped 
with insect -detection sensors can scout the landscapes around domestic bases as well as deployment 
zones  for signs of insect -borne disease risks or invasive species, providing real -time data for situa tional 
awareness.  


Museums and Collections:  Museum collections can be used to help train AI.  In turn, AI-based image 
analysis can help identify and classify insect specimens in museum collections, making taxonomy more 
efficient and consistent.   AI can also assist in transcribing and organizing historical entomological data 
from specimen labels and field notes, making them more accessible for researchers.  
Pest Management:  In addition to all these other applications, pests are also a nuisance and sometimes 
health risk in homes, schools, hospitals, restaurants, and other businesses.  AI-powered insect traps 
equipped with cameras and sensors can identify and count pest species, providing automated, real -time 
population data for more precise pest control strategies. AI can also analyze environmental and pest data 
to guide precise pesticide application, minimizing chemical use while maximizing effectiveness — 
especially important for protecting human health  and infrastructure.  
If you have additional questions, please don’t hesitate to contact Erin Cadwalader, Ph.D., ESA Director of 
Strategic Leadership and Policy, at  ESA would be more than happy to have a 
more robust conversation on these opportunities and how the Society can help support NITRD and 
OSTP’s objectives in this space.  Certainly, we all want the same outcome , protecting America’s 
biosecurity . ESA thanks you again for the opportunity to weigh in on this and provide some suggestions  
on entomological applications of AI .  
Best Regards, 
Chris Stelzig, CAE  
ESA Executive Director  


