The Energy Sciences Coalition (ESC) is a broad -based coalition of organizations representing scientists, engineers and mathematicians in universities, 
industry and national laboratories who are committed to supporting and advancing the scientific research programs of the U.S.  Department of Energy 
(DOE), and in particular, the DOE Office of Scien ce. 
Energy Sciences Coalition Response to Request for Information on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence Action Plan  
March 11, 2025 
The Energy Sciences Coalition (ESC) , a broad-based coalition of more than  100 organizations 
representing the nation’s scientific and technical talent at universities, industry, and national 
laboratories supported by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Science, appreciates 
the opportunity to provide actionable recommendations to the Office of Science and Technology 
Policy’s February 6 Request for Information to sustain and enhance America’s A rtificial 
Intelligence (A I) dominance.  
Opportunity 
The opportunity provided by AI for addressing the nation’s science, energy and national security 
challenges is vast. Seizing this opportunity will take public-private partnerships between research 
universities, national labs, federal agencies, and industry  that together can drive U.S. leadership. 
In this context, the DOE Office of Science must play a leading role within a broader federal 
strategy, and a focused DOE AI Initiative would serve as an essential driver of U.S. AI research 
and innovation.  
DOE already has a clear roadmap through its Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence for Science, 
Security, and Technology (FASST) initiative to drive AI innovation and make immediate  
progress in our national interest . The development of this roadmap was influenced by t he vision 
outlined in the 2023 Advanced Research Directions on AI for Science, Energy, and Security , 
dozens of workshops, and Requests for Information  with input from a broad set of stakeholders .  
Examples of key opportunities where AI play s a major role in science and technology solutions 
include: 
•accelerating the search for new materials for quantum computing, sensing, and
networking applications;
•developing new nuclear and fusion reactor designs;
•refurbishing nuclear weapons designs to maintain the nation’s nuclear deterrent;


•predicting and detecting nuclear proliferation in countries of concern;
•protecting the power grid from cyber attack;
•optimizing energy production of existing energy infrastructure;
•creating predictable ways to engineer microbes and plants for bioproducts ; and
•advancing usable computer models  and simulations  to improve resiliency and mitigate
the worst effects of extreme weather events .
DOE’s leadership in AI is based on decades of investment in supercomputing and advanced 
scientific experimental facilities, data management  and communications  infrastructure, and the 
scientific workforce .  
•Supercomputing. DOE builds and operates the world’s fastest and most capable
supercomputers, including the world’s first exascale computers which can perform more
than a quintillion  tasks per second (a 1 followed by 18 zeroes).   These calculations —
along with scientific data from other state -of-the-art facilities such as light sources ,
accelerators,  and genomics centers —produce tremendous amounts of data, which are key
inputs for AI and machine learning applications  across various scientific and national
security areas .
•Data and data infrastructure.  DOE has develop ed unique data management
infrastructure to store, review, and use this data to meet DOE missions.  It also stewards
key data repositories designed as a public resource to support scientific and technological
discoveries for industry, academic , and other federal agencies. with information not just
from DOE, but also from industry and other federal agencies .  These resources  include
relevant data repositories for materials, biology and environmental research as well as for
residential and commercial buildings, geothermal, solar, wind, marine, and hydrokinetic
energy applications.
•Workforce development.  DOE is also one of the largest federal sponsors of STEM
research, education and workforce development, including in applied mathematics and
computer science .  Investments in these disciplines give young researchers  the
foundations to understand generative AI and large -scale language models, such as
ChatGPT.
Recommendations  
ESC recommends establishing a focused, dedicated DOE AI Initiative , aligned with a broader 
whole-of-government approach to AI research and development,  to fully leverage DOE’s unique 
infrastructure and expertise to meet the nation’s science, energy, and national security 
challenges.  Key elements should include:  
•Cross-cutting R&D program.  ESC recommends a broad, whole -of-DOE effort that focuses
on unique DOE science, engineering, energy, and national security missions.  This new
program should support fundamental science, early-stage engineering and prototyping  of AI
hardware and software technologies , and the deployment of  AI applications to advance
science, energy, and national security .  This program should also include flexible and diverse


funding mechanisms to drive innovation, mitigate risks, and scale up activities across a range 
of disciplines  and performers , including single principal investigator and small research 
group grants for high -risk and innovative paths and prototypes; medium -sized efforts to 
tackle specific grand challenges such as Energy Frontier Research Centers and Scientific 
Discovery through Advanced Computing (SciDAC) centers; and large -scale consortia of 
universities, national laboratories , and industry to integrate, test, and deploy AI systems.  A 
key component would be the safe, reliable, and transparent use of AI , including  addressing  
privacy issues .  While the program would set its own research directions, it may benefit from 
broader coordination efforts by the National AI Initiative Coordinating Office within the 
White House, which can inform gaps, opportunities or partnerships  with other federal AI 
R&D activities. 
•Joint leadership by the Office of Science and National Nuclear Security Administration
(NNSA).  ESC recommends that leadership of a  DOE AI Initiative be jointly shared by the
DOE Office of Science and NNSA to address complementary science and national security
missions.  The DOE Office of Science should coordinate closely with DOE’s applied energy
offices to develop energy -specific applications  and ensure AI platforms are integrated across
DOE missions .  The Exascale Computing Initiative serves as a successful  model of DOE
Office of Science and NNSA collaboration and partnership in designing, building, and
operating the first exascale supercomputers.  DOE Office of Science and NNSA jointly
funded co -design teams of over 1,000 scientists, engineers, and other experts from DOE
national laboratories, academia, and industry to work together on hardware, software, and
applications.  This coordinated framework, coupled with a robust research and deployment
effort at scale, is essential to drive innovation in AI.
•National Science, Energy, and National Security Hubs.   ESC recommends the launch of at
least 8 large-scale innovation hubs focused on advancing unique AI applications for DOE
science, energy, and national security missions.  These large-scale teams of DOE national
laboratories, universities, industry, and other research organizations bring together unique
DOE research expertise, infrastructure, and workforce to have a significant impact.  STEM
education and workforce development  – as well as fostering connections across a wide range
of disciplines  ranging from physicists and engineers to computer scientists – would be an
important element of this consortia and would complement science and technology research
and development efforts.  While industry is making significant investments in AI and driving
innovation, it is focused on applications central to industry rather than  DOE critical mission
areas in science, energy, and national security.  ESC recommends up to $35 million  per year
for each Hub in new funding over 10 years to tackle the opportunities and challenges of AI
for DOE missions.
•AI Computing Infrastructure and Integrated Data Management.   ESC recommends
significant investments in AI computing infrastructure, such as AI accelerators for hardware
and software development.  Custom-designed AI hardware and software for DOE computing
infrastructure will push the boundaries of technology development and applications and help
drive innovation in the private sector.  ESC also recommends investments in integrated data
management leveraging DOE’s vast unclassified and classified data sets to make it available
to national lab and academic researchers, industry, state and local governments,


communities, and other users to accelerate the pace of innovation and application 
development and help with decision -making.  DOE should also partner with other federal 
agencies, including the Department of Commerce,  to evaluate and mitigate national and 
global security risks associated with AI systems and the National Science Foundation to 
coordinate the development of the National AI Research Resource (NAIRR) and other 
accessible AI data infrastructure.  
•STEM Education and Workforce Development.   ESC recommends boosting targeted
investments at DOE in AI STEM education and workforce development.  Options include
DOE scal ing up existing programs, such as the Computational Science Graduate Fellowship
Program and the Early Career Research Program or  further expand ing traineeships to have
dedicated tracks for AI to meet the growing gap in an AI -skilled and -trained workforce.  As
part of this effort, DOE may also look to expand STEM education support for bedrock
disciplines like math, physics and chemistry – which are important competencies for a skilled
AI workforce – or partner with other agencies like NSF with strong existing STEM initiatives
of their own, to expand opportunities for students, postdocs and early -career researchers and
serve as a “force multiplier” for federal investments.
•Authorized funding levels to maintain U.S. competitiveness .  ESC recommends at least $1
billion a year in new fund ing for a DOE AI Initiative that includes the program elements
highlighted above, including investments at the DOE Office of Science, NNSA, and the
applied energy offices.
Thank you for your consideration of this  critically important initiative.  
Sincerely,  
Leland Cogliani  Sarah Walter 
Co-chair Co-chair 


ESC Membership  
American Association of Physicists in Medicine  
American Association of Physics Teachers  
American Astronomical Society  
American Chemical Society  
American Crystallographic Association  
American Geophysical Union  
American Geosciences Institute  
American Institute of Physics  
American Mathematical Society  
American Nuclear Society  
American Physical Society  
American Society for Engineering Education  
American Society of Agronomy  
Acoustical Society of America (ASA)  
American Society of Mechanical Engineers  
American Society for Microbiology  
American Society of Plant Biologists  
American Vacuum Society  
Arizona State University  
Association of American Universities  
AVS – The Society for Science and Technology of Materials, 
Interfaces, and Processing  
Battelle 
Binghamton University  
Biophysical Society  
Boston University  
Case Western Reserve University  
City College of CUNY  
Clemson University  
Coalition for Academic Scientific Computation (CASC)  
Consortium for Ocean Leadership  
Columbia University  
Computing Research Association  
Council of Graduate Schools  
Council of Scientific Society Presidents  
Cornell University  
Cray Inc. 
Crop Science Society of America  
Duke University  
The Ecological Society of America  
Florida State University  
Fusion Power Associates  
General Atomics  
Geological Society of America  
George Mason University  
Georgia Institute of Technology  
Harvard University  
Health Physics Society  
IBM 
IEEE-USA 
Iowa State University  
Jefferson Science Associates, LLC  
Krell Institute  
Lehigh University  Long Island University  
Massachusetts Institute of Technology  
Materials Research Society  
Miami University of Ohio  
Michigan State University  
Michigan Technological University  
New York University  
Northeastern University  
Northern Illinois University  
Northwestern University  
Oak Ridge Associated Universities (ORAU)  
Pace University  
Penn State University  
Princeton University  
Purdue University  
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  
Rochester Institute of Technology  
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey  
Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics  
Soil Science Society of America  
South Dakota School of Mines  
Southeastern Universities Research Association 
SPIE 
Stanford University  
Stony Brook University  
Tech-X Corporation  
Tufts University  
The Ohio State University  
University of California System  
University of Colorado Boulder  
University of Delaware  
University Fusion Association  
University of Hawaii  
University of Illinois System  
University of Iowa  
University of Maryland, College Park  
University of Michigan  
University of Missouri System  
University of Nebraska  
University of North Texas  
University of Oklahoma  
University of Pennsylvania  
University of Rochester  
University of Southern California  
University of Tennessee  
University of Texas at Austin  
University of Virginia  
University of Wisconsin -Madison 
Universities Research Association  
Vanderbilt University  
Washington State University  
West Virginia University  
Yale Universi ty 


