Full members:   American Physiological Society  •  American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology  •  American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics  •  American 
Society for Investigative Pathology  •  The American Association of Immunologists  •  American Association for Anatomy  •  Society for Developmental Biology  •  Association of Biomolecular 
Resource Facilities   •  The American Society for Bone and Mineral Research  •  Society for the Study of Reproduction  •  Endocrine Society  •  Genetics Society of America  •  The Histochemical 
Society  •  Society for Glycobiology  •  Association  for Molecular Pathology  •  Society for Redox Biology and Medicine  •  Society For Experimental Biology and Medicine  •  American Aging 
Association  •  Society for Leukocyte Biology  •  American Federation for Medical Research  •  Shock Society  •  Associate members:   American Society of Human Genetics  
March 14, 2025 
AI Action Plan  
Attention: Faisal D’Souza, NCO  
National Science Foundation 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, V A 22314  
Transmitted electronically to ostp- ai-rfi@nitrd.gov 
Dear Mr. D’Souza,  
The Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology (FASEB) appreciates the opportunity to provide feedback on the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development National Coordination Office and National Science Foundation (NSF) Request for Information on the D evelopment of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan as published in the 
Federal Register  on February 6, 2025. We applaud the Office of Science and Technology Policy’s 
and NSF’s commitment to seek input on the highest priority actions that should be included in the new AI Action Plan.  
In December 2024, FASEB released a report titled "Recommendations for Generative AI in the 
Biological and Biomedical Sciences." This report provides comprehensive recommendations on 
the responsible integration of Gen AI into biological and biomedical research and is intended to help federal agencies, policymakers, institutions, individual researchers, and other stakeholders 
navigate the rapidly evolving landscape of Generative  AI (Gen AI)  in scientific research .  
FASEB’s  recommendations also address the broader category of AI in s ome cases, with  Gen AI 
as a subset of AI in many policies and regulations. FASEB’s feedback on this  RFI takes the 
approach of enabling proper use case applications of AI and Gen AI, ensuring research integrity, fostering stakeholder trust while respecting individual rights, and addressing comprehensive end-to-end workforce needs . Where feasible, we encourage agencies  to take consistent approaches 
with re spective policies and regulations of funding agencies around the globe to reduce 
confusion for practicing researchers. Multi-stakeholder and international approaches also allow more rapid building of capacity and shared resources, requiring fewer overall duplicative efforts . 
We provide below four categories of feedback focuse d on new or revised policies, regulations, 
and guidelines, scientific integrity and intellectual property, data protection, privacy, and security, and workforce impact and training that should be included in the new AI Action Plan to best position America as the glo bal leader in AI  and Gen AI . 
1.Policy, Regulations, and G uidelines
•Federal agencies  should  develop and adopt guidelines for the e thical u se of AI and
Gen AI in research in the biological and biomedica l sciences  that support scientific
integrity.  The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine (NASEM)
draft set of ethical guidelines, Artificial Intelligence in Health, Health Care, and

Biomedical Science: An AI Code of Conduct Principles and Commitments Discussion 
Draft  provides a valuable starting resource and FASEB endorses the NASEM AI 
Code of Conduct’s ten principles and six proposed commitments. F ASEB encourages 
agencies to weigh the impacts of high energy use of AI and Gen AI against the 
potential benefits  and to ensure  a human remains in the loop. Agencies are 
encouraged  to develop comprehensive standards for how data sets and software 
should be managed in AI and Gen AI- assisted research, with protocols to ensure rigor 
and reproducibility.   
• Federal agencies  should  develop and adopt overarching and cohesive guidelines for 
the transpare nt reporting of the use of AI and Gen AI in federally funded research . 
Such an effort might be coordinated by the newly formed National Artificial Intelligence Advisory Committee (NAIAC) or OSTP. These guidelines should address  
1) transparency in reporting AI and Gen AI-assisted research and use in grant applications and research outputs with appropriate attribution and authorship (see also broadly adopted guidelines by the Committee on Publication Ethics  (COPE ) and 
consistent citation styles ( MLA and APA )); and 2) identifying where disclosing use is 
important and where it is  less important to provide much-needed guidance to the 
research community.   
• FASEB encourages federal agencies to develop and implement appropriate guidelines and processes for the use of AI and Gen AI in review processes for federal grants. The u se of or limitations on use of AI and Gen AI in review or 
decisioning (e.g., by reviewers, program officers, and other stakeholders with access to confidentially submitted research proposals) should be addressed. Additionally, agencies may wish to develop new checks in the review process specifically designed for AI and Gen AI issues, including sufficiently detailed disclosure, validation of Gen AI generated content or findings, reviews of tools to determine purpose or  fit, and 
paths for identifying and interrupting potential biases. Further, considerations such as the valuat ion of privacy and consent issues, particularly for sensitive data , checks 
against intellectual property issues, and ensuring proper recognition of software developers, tools, and individual researchers may prove valuable for consideration. Agencies might adopt the approach “first do no harm.”  
 
2. Scientific Integrity and Intellectual Property  
• Federal a gencies should develop uniform coordinated standards for verifying  AI 
and Gen AI -generated data and research findings, create resources regarding 
misconduct  evaluation, and offer resources to support the development of tools and 
platforms for AI and Gen AI reproducibility. FASEB recommends agencies develop uniform standards and processes for verifying Gen AI- generated data and research 
findings and keep appropriate records . Resources that support stakeholders in 
evaluating AI and Gen AI misconduct would provide infrastructure that builds trust in research efforts using these tools. Agencies can also provide resources to support the 
development of open-source tools and platforms specifically designed to enhance the reproducibility of AI and Gen AI -assisted research  that may include 1) Solutions for 
creating reproducible AI and Gen AI environments (computational) ; 2) Platforms for 
sharing and reproducing, testing AI and Gen AI -assisted research findings ; and 3) 
Paths to track the provenance of AI and Gen AI -generated data and research findin gs. 
Federal agencies, either via National Institutes of Standards and Technology (NIST) or through another interagency effort led by OSTP, could develop and establish these coordinated standards and resources. 
         2 

 
 
Full members:   American Physiological Society  •  American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology  •  American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics  •  American 
Society for Investigative Pathology  •  The American Association of Immunologists  •  American Association for Anatomy  •  Society for Developmental Biology  •  Association of Biomolecular 
Resource Facilities   •  The American Society for Bone and Mineral Research  •  Society for the Study of Reproduction  •  Endocrine Society  •  Genetics Society of America  •  The Histochemical 
Society  •  Society for Glycobiology  •  Association  for Molecular Pathology  •  Society for Redox Biology and Medicine  •  Society For Experimental Biology and Medicine  •  American Aging 
Association  •  Society for Leukocyte Biology  •  American Federation for Medical Research  •  Shock Society  •  Associate members:   American Society of Human Genetics  
• FASEB recommends federal agencies adopt policies and regulations requiring AI 
and Gen AI software developers provide full transparency . Details such as how an 
AI or Gen AI tool is created, how it works, the underlying sources , with  references to 
all underlying data and publications used to create the tool, and clearly developed and noted versioning should be provided by software developers for each tool. This is particularly important for Gen AI given the continuous ongoing evolution of the tools and capabilities. Without greater transparenc y, the scientific enterprise will face 
tremendous challenges to scientific integrity and be unable to reproduce experiments.  
• Intellectual property rights and the data of individuals, researchers, and AI and 
Gen AI software developers should be understood and respected by all stakeholders . 
The intersection of AI and Gen AI and intellectual property is complex for US policy 
makers, funding agencies, and all organizations to navigate. AI and Gen AI software 
developers create new intellectual property in the software; h owever, they do not do 
so in isolation or without the benefit of the intellectual property of others. AI and Gen 
AI software is developed by utilizing vast stores of intellectual property rights belonging to others, including individuals and researchers. In this process, there must be understanding of and respect for individual rights and researcher intellectual property rights. AI and Gen AI software developers should cite sources, recognize and 
respect the intellectual property and other ri ghts of researchers and individuals, and 
ensure they are properly obtaining the permissions and rights to use the information for the purpose of use . To support this, AI and Gen AI software developers should 
also provide  1) clear and simple terms of use  so that end- users easily understand how 
the queries and information they input into the tool will be us ed; and 2) one -click 
easy paths for end- users to turn off access.   
 
3. Data P rotection, P rivacy, and S ecurity  
• Data protection, privacy, and security  should  become an integral part of regulations 
and become the default for individuals and researchers in the US . FASEB 
encourages U .S. policy makers to create new regulations to ensure data protection, 
privacy, and security are the default for all individuals and researchers in the U .S. AI 
and Gen AI software developers should be required to secure individual permissions and respect individual decisions. FASEB  also recommends t hat o nly the data  strictly 
necessary for the required functionality be collected  by tools or during development, 
individuals  be protected from unchecked surveillance , and there is  no burden for 
individuals to change data privacy and security settings (with  brief, plain descriptive 
language with context describing the collection, use, and reuse of data ). Individuals  
should also have access to reporting to confirm  that their data privacy and security 
decisions are respected by organizations.  
 
• Federal agencies  should  identify use cases of AI and Gen AI where misinterpreting 
and reusing data has elevated levels of potential harm and provide an enhanced 
       3 

level of privacy and security. Agencies should also develop and routinely update 
data management and security protocols for AI and Gen AI-generated data, including robust data governance plans, and should keep current  data management 
and sharing plans . AI and Gen AI tools provide an easy path for potential harm to 
individuals through the accidental inclusion of personally identifiable data,  notable 
examples in  the healthcare and education fields. In medical practices, the informed 
consent process is well-established and serves to protect individuals. At institutions, an institutional review board develops procedures to ensure appropriate steps are taken to protect the rights and welfare of humans participating as subjects in research. Similar approaches could prove useful for agencies to adopt for high potential harm use cases  and in the initial stages of new tool exploration. At agencies, data security, 
governance, and data management and sharing plans should be kept current  with  AI 
and Gen AI developments. 
4.Workforce Impact and Training
•Federal agencies should develop, provide resources for, and implement multi- tiered
Gen AI training programs and toolkits to address the diverse needs of researchers
at different career stages and roles. Funding agencies and institutions, in partnershipwith other stakeholders, should rapidly develop and map out a plan to implement AI
and Gen AI training and educational programs. The need extends beyond thetraditional K -12 or undergraduate educational training, and must include researchers
at all career stages, who present differing needs. Developing the skillset of the U .S.
biological and biomedical sciences workforce is a priority for the workforce andeconomy to thrive. A gencies are encouraged to consider approaches that do not add to
the existing workloads of impacted stakeholders. The full FASEB recommendationsprovide guidance for program structures ( Appendix 2, page 44), key principles for
educational frameworks  (Appendix 3, page 45), and a basic toolkit for the biological
and biomedical sciences  (Appendix 4, page 46).
•Policy makers and funding agencies should create federal training grants for all
stakeholders focused on the ethical and effective use of AI and Gen AI . Given the
broad anticipated impact, particularly on the biological and biomedical sciences,policy makers and funding agencies should create training grants for stakeholders thatfocus on the ethical and effective use of AI and Gen AI.
•FASEB encourages federal agencies to ensure adequate training of agency staff
and program officers on the appropriate use of AI and Gen AI, monitoring use,understanding bias, and their oversight role . Federal agencies have a particular role
to play in oversight of federal funding for research and educational programs.Implementing training for staff  and program officers across the breadth of issues
related to  AI and  Gen AI will better position agencies  to successfully lead and address
recent  developments.
•Funding agencies should create and/or fund the creation of Gen AI educational
resources and allocate resources to support continuing educational efforts designedto both improve the workforce and reduce inequities through Gen AI . For many
scientists, self -directed learning may be the fastest path forward. To facilitate, FASEB
recommends federal agencies fund the creation of specific educational resources andensure the agencies  allocate resources to support educational efforts. Additionally, in
their leading role, federal agencies could develop a centralized repository ofeducational resources on Gen AI in biological and biomedical sciences ( Appendix 5,
page 47 for resources ).
   4 

Full members:   American Physiological Society  •  American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology  •  American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics  •  American 
Society for Investigative Pathology  •  The American Association of Immunologists  •  American Association for Anatomy  •  Society for Developmental Biology  •  Association of Biomolecular 
Resource Facilities   •  The American Society for Bone and Mineral Research  •  Society for the Study of Reproduction  •  Endocrine Society  •  Genetics Society of America  •  The Histochemical 
Society  •  Society for Glycobiology  •  Association  for Molecular Pathology  •  Society for Redox Biology and Medicine  •  Society For Experimental Biology and Medicine  •  American Aging 
Association  •  Society for Leukocyte Biology  •  American Federation for Medical Research  •  Shock Society  •  Associate members:   American Society of Human Genetics  
Thank you for providing the research community with the opportunity to comment on the 
development of the AI Action plan. 
Sincerely,  
Beth A. Garvy , PhD 
FASEB President  
5 

