 
 1 COMMENTS  OF 
FIBER BROADBAND  ASSOCIATION  
 
March  14, 2025  
 
The Fiber  Broadband  Association  (“FBA ”)1 submits  these  comments  in response  to the 
Request  for Information  issued  by the Networking  and Information  Technology  Research  and 
Development  (“NITRD”)  National  Coordination  Office  (“NCO”)  and National  Science  
Foundation  seeking  input  on the development  of an Artificial  Intelligence  (“AI”)  Action  Plan.2  
FBA  agrees  that “with  the right  government  policies,  the United  States  can solidify  its position  as 
the leader  in AI and secure  a brighter  future  for all Americans.”3  A key component  of 
“sustain[ing]  and enhanc[ing]  America’s  AI dominance”  will be ensuring  that we have  adequate  
infrastructure  in place  to support  AI development  and deployment.   
AI requires  massive  data processing  power,  necessitating  advanced  data centers , the 
demand  for which  is expected  to grow  rapidly  over the next few years .4  Those  data centers,  in 
turn, require  connectivity  to the world  through  enormous  fiber  “pipes”  with “400G  to 800G  
connectivity”  – “2 to 4 times  more  fiber  cabling  than traditional  hyperscale  centers ”5 – today  and 
 
1  FBA  is a not for profit  trade  association  with more  than 600 members,  including  
telecommunications,  computing,  networking,  system  integration,  engineering,  and content -
provider  companies,  as well as traditional  service  providers,  utilities,  and municipalities.   Its 
mission  is to accelerate  deployment  of all-fiber  access  networks  to enable  every  community  to 
leverage  economic  and societal  benefits  that only fiber  can deliver.   A complete  list of FBA  
members  can be found  on the organization’s  website:  https://www.fiberbroadband.org/.  
2  National  Science  Foundation,  Request  for Information  on the Development  of an 
Artificial  Intelligence  (AI) Action  Plan , 90 FR 9088 -01 (Feb.  6, 2025).   
3  Id. 
4  See NTIA,  Request  For Comments  on Bolstering  Data  Center  Growth,  Resilience,  and 
Security , Docket  No.  (Sept.  2024)  (commenting  that “data center  demand  is 
projected  to grow  domestically  by roughly  nine percent  year over year through  2030”).  
5  See “The  Importance  of Fiber  Density  in AI Data  Centers,”  Go!Foton  (Sept.  13, 2024)  
available  at https://www.gofoton.com/the -importance -of-fiber -density -in-ai-data-centers/ .  


2 even  greater  performance  tomorrow .6  No other  technology  can match  fiber’s  capabilities  – not 
only due to fiber’s  superior  bandwidth  but also low latency  and jitter  that such infrastructure  
offers .7  FBA’s  members  are making  significant  investments  in fiber  technologies  and networks  
that can provide  this essential  connectivity  for many  decades .8  However,  regulatory  barriers  may 
slow  the installation  of fiber  to data centers  and increase  the costs  of these  efforts.    
For example,  as part of a network  build  to a data center , service  providers  may need  to 
cross  federal  lands,  which  could  require  permits  from  one or more  federal  government  agencies .  
Permitting  delays  can be a significant  issue  for deployment,  as applicants  may wait months  or 
even  years  to obtain  all requisite  approvals  to access  public  lands  and rights -of-way.   The 
environmental  review  process  federal  agencies  must  undertake  pursuant  to the National  
Environmental  Policy  Act (“NEPA”)  can similarly  cause  deployment  delays .  In the past, NEPA  
reviews  could  be quite  lengthy  – for instance,  figures  published  in 2020  by the Council  on 
Environmental  Quality  (“CEQ”)  found  that between  2010  and 2018,  the average  time across  all 
federal  agencies  to complete  an environmental  impact  statement  was 4.5 years.9  FBA  
6Testing  is already  taking  place  for speeds  up to 1.6 TB/s.   See, e.g., Sean  Buckley,  
“AT&T  tests 1.6 Tbps  on existing  Northeast  long-distance  fiber  network,”  Lightwave  (Mar.  13, 
2025),  available  at: https://www.lightwaveonline.com/home/article/55274591/att -tests-16-tbps-
on-existing -northeast -long-distance -fiber -network .  
7See Comments  of Fiber  Broadband  Association,  FCC  GN Docket  No. 24-119 (June  6, 
2024),  available  at: https://www.fcc.gov/ecfs/document/10606657422018/1 .  Beyond  data 
centers,  fiber -to-the-home  connectivity  also allows  for growth  in consumer  AI applications  such 
as smart  home  hubs,  AI thermostats,  security  systems,  smart  lighting,  and appliances.   See Peter  
Cresse,  Accelerating  AI With  Fiber  Systems  and Strategies  (Feb.  2025),  available  at 
https://fiberbroadband.org/resources/accelerating -ai-with-fiber -systems -and-strategies/ . 
8See, e.g., Doug  Mohney,  “AI Driving  Fiber -Rich  Networks,  Data  Centers ” (Nov.  29, 
2023),  available  at: https://fiberbroadband.org/2023/11/29/ai -driving -fiber -rich-networks -data-
centers/ ; Doug  Mohney,  “The Hunger  for Data  Centers  in Unserved  Markets ” (Nov.  21, 2023),  
available  at: https://fiberbroadband.org/2023/11/21/the -hunger -for-data-centers -in-unserved -
markets/ .  
9Executive  Office  of the President,  Council  on Environmental  Quality,  Environmental  
Impact  Statement  Timelines  (2010 -2018)  (Jun. 12, 2020),  available  at:  
https://ceq.doe.gov/docs/nepa -practice/CEQ_EIS_Timeline_Report_2020 -6-12.pdf . 


 
 3 appreciates  that there  have  been  legislative  efforts  to address  these  regulatory  delays,  including  
the 2023  amendments  to NEPA  to streamline  environmental  review  process es,10 as well as 
introduced  legislation  and stated  commitments  to enhance  efficiency  in federal  broadband  
permitting  by leaders  in this current  Congress .11  Because  of the impact  of federal  permitting  and 
NEPA  reviews  on network  builds,  including  builds  to data centers,  the AI Action  Plan should  
consider  what  policy  changes  are needed  promote  further  efficiency  in this review  process  to 
avoid  unnecessary  delays .   
In addition  to federal  regulatory  barriers,  entities  seeking  to install  fiber  network  
infrastructure  frequently  experience  permitting  issues  at the state and local  level  that can delay  or 
derail  a planned  deployment.   These  issues  include  a lack of coordination  and communication  
during  the application  process,  excessive  delays  in reviewing  and granting  applications,  and 
unreasonable  costs  and conditions  imposed  on applicants.   Such  issues  could  be addressed  by 
 
10  Specifically,  Congress  amended  NEPA  as part of the Fiscal  Responsibility  Act of 2023  
by establishing  a one-year timeline  to complete  environmental  assessments,  and a two-year 
deadline  to complete  environmental  impact  statements,  subject  to extensions  on a case-by-case 
basis.   PL 118-5, 137 Stat 10 (June  3, 2023) .  Additional  reforms  may be forthcoming  as part of 
CEQ’s  work  to implement  NEPA  directives  set forth  in Executive  Order  14154 .  See E.O. 14154,  
Unleashing  American  Energy , 90 FR 8353 , 8355  (revoking  E.O. 11991  and instructing  CEQ  to 
propose  rescinding  CEQ’s  existing  NEPA  regulations  and “convene  a working  group  to 
coordinate  the revision  of agency -level  implementing  regulations  for consistency ”).  CEQ  has 
published  an interim  final rule to carry  out these  directives,  and has issued  guidance  on NEPA  
implementation  to federal  agency  and department  heads.   See Executive  Office  of the President,  
Council  on Environmental  Quality,  Memorandum  for Heads  of Federal  Departments  and 
Agencies  (Feb.  19, 2025),  available  at: https://ceq.doe.gov/docs/ceq -regulations -and-
guidance/CEQ -Memo -Implementation -of-NEPA -02.19.2025.pdf . 
11  For example,  the proposed  “Federal  Broadband  Deployment  Tracking  Act” would  
require  NTIA  to submit  a comprehensive  plan to Congress  detailing  how NTIA  will track  the 
acceptance,  processing,  and disposal  of broadband  permitting  applications  on federal  lands.   See 
https://pfluger.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=2282#:~:text=The%20Feder
al%20Broadband%20Deployment%20Tracking,permitting%20applications%20on%20federal%
20lands .  The need  for permitting  reform  was also discussed  at a recent  hearing  before  the House  
Communications  and Technology  Subcommittee.   See Fixing  Biden’s  Broadband  Blunder:  
Hearing  Before  the H. Comms.  & Tech.  Subcomm. , 119th Cong.  (Mar.  5, 2025)  (Hearing  Memo  
from  Majority  Staff).   


4 policy  reforms  such as: 
•establishing  a single  point  of contact  with whom  applicants  can interact  on all
necessary  permitting  approvals;
•ensur ing clear,  transparent  permitting  processes,  including  prioritization  criteria,
progress  updates,  and explicit  reasons  for delays  or rejections ;
•implementing  reasonable  requirements  and time frames  for provider  submissions
and government  review  and approval  of applications;
•allocating  sufficient  resources  to enable  state and local  permitting  officials  to
process  applications  in a timely  and cost-effective  manner ;
•allowing  applicants  to incorporate  corrections  to their applications  along  the way
rather  than requiring  them  to restart  a review  process  anew  if a permitting  official
finds  incorrect  or insufficient  information  at a later point  in a review;
•implementing  “dig once”  policies  to enable  fiber  providers  to access  public  rights -
of-way and infrastructure  when  costs  are lower  and disruption  to the public  is
minimized;
•adopting  a “deemed  granted”  approach  for applications  after a reasonable  period,
so long as the applicant  has met reasonable  requirements  to submit  accurate,
timely,  and complete  information;  and
•imposing  requirements  for access  to public  rights -of-way and infrastructure  that
are fair and reasonable  and related  only to and commensurate  with the access
provided  (e.g.,  street  restoration  requirements  following  a fiber  deployment
should  be reasonable  and proportional  to and directly  arise  from  the deployment
and should  be agreed  upon  in advance).
The AI Action  Plan should  recognize  the importance  of such permitting  reforms  at the 
state and local  level  as a means  of promoting  efficient  deployment  of necessary  infrastructure  to 
support  continued  AI growth  and development . 


 
 5 Respectfully  Submitted,  
 
 
Gary  Bolton   
President  and CEO  
Fiber  Broadband  Association   
3050  K Street  NW,  Suite  400  
Washington,  DC 20007  
Telephone:  (202)   
     
 
March  14, 2025  
 
This document  is approved  for public  dissemination.   The document  contains  no business -
proprietary  or confidential  information.   Document  contents  may be reused  by the government  in 
developing  the AI Action  Plan  and associated  documents  without  attribution .  


