AI Action Plan  Request for Information  
 
 1 | Flagship Pioneering  BY ELECTRONIC SUBMISSION VIA 
March 15, 2025  
Faisal D’Souza  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD)  
National Coordination Office (NCO)  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314, USA  
RE: AI Action Plan RFI  (FR Doc: 2025 -02305)  
Dear Mr. D’Souza,  
As an established leader in the use of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) to accelerate the 
development of transformative products across the life sciences landscape , Flagship Pioneering respectfully 
submits these comments in response to t he National Science Foundation’s Request for Information  on the 
Development of an AI Action Plan.    
By way of background, Flagship Pioneering creates, resources, and develops original bioplatform companies 
that aim to transform human health and sustainability, utilizing advanced biological technologies and 
processes, AI/ML, and novel manufacturing techno logies. Over the last 2 5 years, Flagship Pioneering has 
created a broad ecosystem of pioneering bioplatforms and companies, collectively representing:  
• More than 100 scientific ventures founded , including more than a dozen publicly -traded companies ;
• 28 FDA authorized, approved, or cleared products;
• More than 1 90 product candidates in development (from vaccines to drugs against cancer , and for
rare and common diseases);
• an annual, collective R&D budget of more than $2  billion ;
• more than 10,500 employees across our companies from Cambridge to Seattle to San Francisco  to
Indiana , with the vast majority working directly on R&D; and
• 3,100,000+ square feet of laboratory and manufacturing space across the United States.
Flagship boasts a decades -long history of leveraging cutting -edge AI/ML -enabled bioplatforms to create 
transformative biotech companies and products. We are at the forefront of harnessing exponential 
advancements in Generative AI, reinforcement and multimo dal machine learning, large language models, and 
AI-enhanced simulations. These technologies empower us to pioneer new knowledge and decode the 
languages of life, enabling our scientists and entrepreneurs to accelerate and refine the process of scientific 
hypothesis ideation, iteration, and testing. This approach allows us to develop groundbreaking products that 
redefine the biotech landscape. For example , our proprietary AI/ML systems enable us to : 
• Model disease processes to learn how cells move from health to disease, and then computationally
identify diverse sets of molecules that are capable of reversing or stopping these processes;
• Computationally generate, design, and optimize novel protein therapeutics
(biologics/biotherapeutics) and new chemical entities (small molecule drugs) with desired functions


AI Action Plan  Request for Information  
 
 2 | Flagship Pioneering  and properties, and do so faster, cheaper and better than traditional scientific methods, which are 
reliant on inefficient trial -and-error;  
• Identify optimal small molecule drugs based on history of safe human use;
• Identify optimal small molecule drugs that are synthesized by human commensal microbes and have
potent bioactivities;
• Experimentally and computationally optimize DNA - or RNA -based medicines for expression, stability,
and lack of immunogenicity, in order to expand the utility of these medicines beyond vaccines;
• Computationally elucidate biological patterns that correspond to cancer pathways for the early and
accurate detection of oncogenesis ; and
• Leverage AI/ML to innovate across the scientific method using scientific superintelligence and
autonomous labs.
In addition, Flagship is building and constantly refining a proprietary , centralized  AI-driven intelligence engine 
to systematize our knowledge and augment our capabilities  across our portfolio of bioplatforms and 
companies. We also are establishing partnerships across the AI landscape with leading technology developers 
to further power breakthrough innovations in AI and the life sciences.   
Based on this experience and leadership in the field, Flagship  Pioneering  respectfully submits  the following 
comments and recommendations:  
SUMMARY OF COMMENTS  
Leadership in AI /ML – and particularly within the context of biotechnology innovation – is critical  to the 
United States’ future national and economic security . These technologies enhance defense capabilities by 
improving intelligence, threat detection, and cybersecurity strategies , and are vital for ensuring public health 
preparedness against biological threats – whether intentional or naturally occurring. They also enhance our 
economic growth and competitiveness by enabling the United States to remain at the cutting -edge of 
technological and efficiency advances. Increased federal funding for AI/ML research and the expansion of 
public -private partnerships will further accelerate innovation and deployment.  Through focused investment 
and well -crafted policy measures that effectively link technological supremacy with economic prosperity and 
national security, the U.S. can safeguard its national interests , preserve its strategic advantage amid rapid 
global technological and geopolitical changes , and advance the interests of humanity worldwide.  
To build a robust national infrastructure that unleashes waves of American -led AI/ML innovation , we 
recommend the U.S. government focus on the following priorities:  
• Coordinated Management , Sharing , and Generation  of Biological Data to Propel  Innovation:
Establish coordinated management and sharing of biological data  across the federal government’s
vast array of agencies, to hel p standardize protocols and improve access to high -quality , AI-ready
datasets  for public and private researchers . Invest in innovative data generation technologies to
maintain U.S. leadership in AI.
• Fostering  AI Innovation and Leadership through Limited, Risk -Based Regulation: Foster private
investment in AI through limited, risk-based regulatory frameworks. Shape consistent global
standards, particularly in drug development,  to enhance  and streamline responsible innovation for
patients globally .


AI Action Plan  Request for Information  
 
 3 | Flagship Pioneering  • Restrict U.S.  Outbound  AI Investments with Sanctioned Countries : Regulate outbound investments
in AI, including research and development activities, with sanctioned entities to protect  national
security , safeguard critical technology sectors , and sustain technological leadership.
• Incentivizing  AI Innovation and Expanding Access to  Expertise:  Uphold strong patent protections for
AI-enabled inventions to encourage innovation  and U.S. leadership . Create mechanisms to access
foreign talent. Establish a specialized AI/ML team within the FDA to streamline regulatory processes
for AI /ML use in drug development.
SPECIFIC COMMENTS  
The federal government must act decisively to establish a robust infrastructure that will propel the 
development of AI and ML technologies  forward and unleash waves of American -led innovation . These 
technologies are not only pivotal in shaping the future economic and national security of the United States, 
but also are critical in addressing some of the most pressing challenges of our time. The United States needs a 
comprehensive framework that unites the diverse capabilities and resources of the public and private sec tors 
behind this collective mission.  This framework must , at its core,  focus on enhancing and integrating diverse 
datasets vital for training state -of-the-art AI and ML models, which are foundational to driving breakthroughs 
in vital sectors such as healthcare, national defense , energy, and agriculture . 
This framework also should envision strategic public -private investments to support the building of needed AI 
infrastructure , along the lines of the critical infrastructure sovereign wealth fund  idea proposed by President 
Trump  and other experts in the field.  The lab facilities and equipment needed to advance such innovations 
are often well beyond the financial capacity of the private sector, particularly among the many small 
businesses that are leading research in this area.   The federal government can play an important role in 
catalyzing strategic financing in this sector.  
The overarching goal should be  to create an AI -powered future that enhances economic prosperity, improves 
the quality of life for Americans, and ensures access to technological benefits across all sectors of U.S. society, 
guaranteeing that AI's integration is not only beneficial but truly  transformative .  The following sections 
describe the key pillars of this necessary infrastructure in more detail.  By channeling dedicated  resources and 
attention into these areas, the U.S. government can promote sustainabl e economic growth and reinforce the 
U.S.'s competitive edge in the global tech nology race .
I. Coordinati ng Management , Sharing , and Generation  of Biological Data to Propel Innovation
The federal government should  establish mechanisms for coordinated  management and sharing of biological 
data across its vast network of agencies , and frameworks for sharing such data with responsible public and 
private researchers with appropriate privacy protections . This initiative is crucial for standardiz ing data 
protocols that ensure consistency and interoperability among a wide array of datasets, unlocking the full 
potential of interdisciplinary research. By implementing uniform approaches , this effort  will enable the 
private and public sector research c ommuniti es to access and utilize data with unprecedented efficiency, 
nurturing a collaborative research ecosyst em that transcends existing institutional and disciplinary 
boundaries.  
By making high -quality, AI-ready, comprehensive datasets more accessible, the U.S. can spark transformative 
developments across the life sciences, especially in areas such as disease prevention, cell & gene therapy, 
energy efficiency, and agricultural  innovation. Furthermore, by reducing the cost  and time  associated with 


 
AI Action Plan  Request for Information  
   
 4 | Flagship Pioneering  disaggregated data acquisition and “clean up,” the initiative will significantly boost economic growth in 
strategic sectors  and maximize the potential for revolutionary discoveries that will shape the future  – 
cementing the U.S.'s position as a global leader in biotech nology  and AI.  
Furthermore , the U.S. should  prioritize and significantly increase investment in advancing data generation 
capabilities, which are crucial for capturing comprehensive biological insights . These include  innovative 
technologies focused on the deep measurement of biology and human physiology at scale. The ability to 
create scalable and renewable sources of biological data will decisively shape the competitive landscape in 
the coming years  as advancements in AI capabilities will naturally gravitate toward regions that offer 
abundant and r ich data resources. These pioneering technologies are vital for maintaining the United States' 
leadership in AI, biotechnology , and scientific research.  
II.        Fostering AI Innovation and Leadership t hrough Risk -Based Regulation  
The federal government should focus on fostering an environment that encourages continued private 
investment to unleash the full potential of AI  by avoiding regulations that single out AI models for 
burdensome and likely unworkable restrictions. While we acknowledge that AI, like any technology, can be 
used for good or for harm, the government should focus on identifying or preventing actual harmful activities 
rather than, for example, regulating AI based solely on a model’s computing power  or other feature s. Such 
regulations, as mentioned in previous  executive orders and legislative discussions, could inadvertently stifle 
innovation and deter private companies from investing in advanced AI capabilities. In the face of increasing 
competition from abroad, where centralized and well -funded AI initiatives  are rapidly advancing, it is crucial 
that the U.S. maintains a competitive edge. This requires an approach that incentivizes investment and 
supports the scalable growth of AI technologies  domestically , rather t han imposing blanket limitations that 
could hinder progress.  
Instead of focusing on computing capacity or model size, the federal government should emphasize a risk -
based regulatory framework that considers the intended use of AI models. This approach would allow for 
more nuanced governance that addresses potential risks without stifling innovation. Encouraging public -
private cooperation will be paramount in developing these frameworks, as it offers a platform for sharing 
insights, expertise, and best practices. By promoting a collaborative environment, the governmen t can help 
ensure AI technologies are developed responsibly and ethically , while also supporting commercial growth and 
maintaining global competitiveness.  
Moreover, the U.S. should actively engage on the international stage to shape global AI regulatory 
frameworks that encourage and support innovation. In drug development, for example, AI can accelerate 
research processes, enhance target identification, and optimize clinical trials, leading to faster and m ore 
effective therapies for patients worldwide.  As drug development continues to expand globally, s uch 
international cooperation on AI can help establish consistent , risk -based regulatory environments conducive 
to both progress and patient protectio n. 
III. Protecting U.S. Leadership in AI Innovation through Strong Patent Policies  
The federal government should prioritize the protection and encouragement of innovation within the AI 
sector by ensuring that AI -enabled inventions remain patentable. Recently adopted guidance by the U.S. 
Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) under the last Administration could create uncertainty over this 
question, as it appears to impose new limit s or requirements on  AI-related patent s on the theory  that 
machines, rather than humans, are the inventors or co -inventors  of the invention. Such restrictions coul d 


AI Action Plan  Request for Information  
 
 5 | Flagship Pioneering  deter investment in AI research and development, as companies and inventors may lack confidence in their 
ability to secure intellectual property rights. Such an approach  also c ould disadvantage the United States in 
the global technology race , as competitor nations have, to date, not sought to treat AI -enabled inventions any 
differently than other tools used by humans in the inventive process  – thus potentially driving the most 
advanced AI innovation out of the United States.  
Maintaining a robust patent system that accommodates AI -driven innovations is essential for fostering 
continued U.S. leadership in AI and technology.  The USPTO should rescind its misguided guidance and 
reaffirm the central role that humans play in designing, managing, directing, monitoring, and evaluating the 
output of AI models to bring valuable new products to the market.  This will ensure that U.S. -based 
researchers and companies remain at the forefront of technological advancements , and that the U.S. wi ll 
remain in a position to promote similar patent policies abroad for American inventors.   
Furthermore, in order to incentivize the private sector to leverage federal investments in data generation and 
data sharing, t he federal government must  ensure that private sector companies feel secure in the ownership 
of their intellectual property generated from using government -provided datasets. Clarifying the scope of 
federal rights, such as march -in rights , for such IP will alleviate concerns that these rights might be exercised 
too broadly. By establishing clear guidelines and assurances around IP ow nership, the government can foster 
a more collaborative environment that encourages private investment and innovation while leveraging public 
data assets effectively.  
IV. Restricting U.S. Outbound AI Investment and Research with Sanctioned Countries
The federal government should continue  to fortify  robust restrictions on U.S. outbound  AI investments and 
research collaborations with companies in sanctioned countries to safeguard national security and maintain 
technological leadership. We support the U.S. Department of Treasury's recent Final Rule1, which, for the first 
time beyond traditional sanctions, regulates outbound investments for national security reasons. This rule 
mandates notification or prohibition of certain transactions involving U.S. persons with covered foreign 
persons engaged in cr itical technology sectors. By implementing these new regulations faithfully,  the 
government can decisively protect national interests and ensure that U.S. resources are not inadvertently 
aiding technological competitors . 
V. Ensur ing Access to AI/ML  Expertise
Given the extraordinary, untapped power of AI/ML technologies to rapidly accelerate the design, 
development, and regulatory review of products that can cure and prevent diseases, t he federal government 
should establish a specialized cross -center team within the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) with 
designated expertise in AI/ML . This team should  serve as an initial advisory entity and central clearinghouse 
for voluntary pre -Investigational New Drug (pre -IND) inquiries from drug sponsors  seeking to use AI/ ML in 
novel ways . The objective is to assist those seeking to integrate AI and ML into drug development by offering 
a streamlined entry point that enables sponsors to efficiently determine whether their proposed use falls 
under FDA regulatory oversight. If oversight is ap plicable, the team would then identify the appropriate office 
1 U.S. Department of the Treasury. ( 2024 ). Provisions Pertaining to U.S. Investments in Certain National Security 
Technologies and Products in Countries of Concern. Federal Register , Volume 89 , 90398 -90473. 
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2024/11/15/2024 -25422/provisions -pertaining -to-us-investments -in-
certain -national -security -technologies -and-products -in 


AI Action Plan  Request for Information  
 
 6 | Flagship Pioneering  or program within the agency to provide specific guidance on the proposed use , while ensuring consistency 
across the agency and providing specific expertise as needed . 
By consolidating AI and ML inquiries within a single, expert -led team, the FDA can facilitate quicker and more 
efficient communications with developers, ensuring that innovative technologies are leveraged as fully as 
possible and  without causing unnecessary delays. This team would  work in close collaboration with existing 
review divisions to maintain consistent and expert oversight on queries related to AI/ML use, ensuring that 
technological integration occurs  rapidly and responsibly in alignment  with the a gency’s regulatory standards.  
This prompt action will not only advance the agency's capacity to manage emerging technologies but also 
position the U.S. as a leader in the integration of AI and ML in drug development, ultimately benefiting 
human  health and innovation in the biopharmaceutical sector  globally . 
More broadly, the U.S. government should establish mechanisms to expedite and expand access by American 
entities to foreign AI/ML talent  through reforms to applicable immigration processes, particularly among 
allied country partners.   We need to encourage AI/ML experts to come and remain in the United States  to 
help propel American innovation forward.  
CONCLUSION  
Flagship Pioneering appreciates the opportunity to provide these comments in response to your Request for 
Information on the Development of an AI Action Plan . We  look forward to further opportunities to engage 
with you and other stakeholders on this topic . Thank you for your consideration of our views.  
Sincerely,  
/s/ 
Tom DiLenge  
Senior Partner , Global Public Policy, Regulatory  
     & Governmental Strategy  
Flagship Pioneering  


