 ForHumanity 
 980 Broadway #506 
 Thornwood, NY 10594 
 ForHumanity Europe 
 12 rue Frederic Petit 
 80000 Amiens, France 
RE: AI Action Plan 
Ryan Carrier, Executive Director 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused 
by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents 
without attribution. 
Introduction and Background 
ForHumanity (https://forhumanity.center/ ) is a 501(c)(3) non profit organization and 
ForHumanity Europe is a French 1901 Association, dedicated to addressing risks 
associated with Ethics, Bias, Privacy, Trust, and Cybersecurity in Artificial 
Intelligence, Algorithmic, and Autonomous (AAA) Systems. ForHumanity uses an 
open and transparent process that draws from a pool of over 2,600+ international 
contributors to construct audit criteria, certification schemes, and educational 
programs for legal and compliance professionals, educators, auditors, designers, 
developers, and legislators to mitigate bias, enhance ethics, protect privacy, build 
trust, improve cybersecurity, and drive accountability & transparency in AAA 
Systems. ForHumanity has created more than 50 certification schemes with more 
than 7,000 distinct risk controls, treatments, and mitigations to operationalize the 
EU AI Act; GDPR; California Privacy; Unfair, Deceptive, and Abusive Practices 
(FTC Act); and many others. ForHumanity works to make AAA Systems safe for all 
people and makes itself available to support government agencies and 
instrumentalities to manage risks associated with AAA Systems. Our mission is to 
examine and analyze downside risks associated with the ubiquitous advance of AI, 
algorithmic, and autonomous systems, and where possible, to engage in risk 
mitigation to maximize the benefits of these systems… ForHumanity. 
1 ForHumanity Inc. a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt Public Charity 


ForHumanity is under contract to advise the US AI Safety Institute and 
CEN/CENELEC JTC 21 (the European standards body tasked with establishing the 
EU AI Act conformity assessment).  ForHumanity works with, interacts with, and 
advises the European Commission, Data Protection Board, Information 
Commissioner's Office, UK Accreditation Service, US Department of Labor and 
Defense, the Federal Reserve, and Congress.    
ForHumanity makes the following recommendations: 
Defending National Security 
Artificial Intelligence is a powerful tool, and when combined with the internet and 
social media, there is a low barrier to entry for enemies of the state to engage in 
nefarious, fraudulent, and malfeasant activities.  Examples of the usage of AI 
against the interest of the state include the creation of deepfakes and 
disinformation.   
Our democracy is reliant upon trustworthy information and the freedom of 
expression.  Innovation is accelerated when information is readily converted into 
knowledge and wisdom, whether by research or the processing of information by 
Artificial Intelligence.  An ocean of information that is roiled by deepfakes and 
disinformation, with questionable authenticity, authority, provenance, and 
reliability, greatly hinders innovation. 
ForHumanity advocates for robust provenance procedures for content that upholds 
intellectual property rights and ensures transparency of ownership, content 
generation, and obvious declarations of purpose. We advise that this is done with 
legislative requirements regarding technical metadata, procedures for supporting 
trustworthiness of content (validation services), and indelible watermarking. 
General AI Literacy/Fluency fostering American AI Leadership 
Like most technology, AI can be used for good or nefarious purposes, such as 
manipulation or fraud.  Such nefarious purposes can be undermined by training and 
educating consumers of content on how to identify and avoid manipulation and 
fraud. Furthermore, training and educating the population  on the design, 
development, and deployment of AI increases the opportunities for good uses.  
ForHumanity has built guidance and learning objectives for all government and 
corporate AI Literacy deployments of AI.  Additionally, we are embarking on a 
fulfillment of our own mission by providing generic AI Literacy training for mass 2 ForHumanity Inc. a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt Public Charity 


audiences.  The US Federal Government is welcome to use any or all of these 
resources.  
Innovation and Safety Are Not Incompatible Concepts 
Some of the greatest innovations have been safety features (e.g., seatbelts, airbags). 
ForHumanity encourages the development and maturity of AI that includes 
advancing capabilities while decreasing harms and negative impacts to direct and 
indirect stakeholders.  “More Compute” is not always the answer, most recently 
demonstrated by DeepSeek. 
Artificial Intelligence has been deployed in ways that directly result in 
harm to Consumers/Individuals, hindering adoption and deployment 
Existing laws, such as the FTC Act, should be enforced robustly to counter rampant 
AI abuses such as: 
1.False, misleading, and exaggerated promotions
2.Hiding or obscuring consumer rights
3.Bait and Switch AI
4.False advertising and misleading design (UX/UI) that takes advantage
of consumers, especially Vulnerable Populations (Elderly, Children,
Veterans)
5.The advancement of discriminatory outcomes
6.Garbage in (poor data management and governance) = Garbage Out
(harmful outcomes)
7.Empowering consumer choice (e.g., parental choice), such as content
moderation
Building an Infrastructure of Trust for Global AI Leadership 
ForHumanity recommends market-based enforcement of laws, regulations, and 
guidelines through third-party independent audits (replicating the financial audit 
model for 10Q’s and 10K’s). Please refer to the NTIA’s report on Algorithm 
Accountability published here for detailed recommendations on Independent Audit 
of AI Systems.  ForHumanity provides all of its support and resources under the 
authority of the Federal Government as applicable.  
ForHumanity stands ready to support this infrastructure of trust with our globally 
harmonized certification schemes and training for organizations seeking to 
implement robust and auditable risk controls, treatments, and mitigations.  The 
3 ForHumanity Inc. a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt Public Charity 


US’s global leadership in finance can be directly attributed to the financial audit 
and reporting requirements established by the SEC in the mid 1970’s.  We advise a 
similar infrastructure of trust for AI, Algorithmic, and Autonomous Systems and 
are positioned to uniformly support this ecosystem institutionally and individually. 
A second order benefit from Independent Audit of AI Systems is robust validation 
and independent certification of AI. Third-party assurance of compliance with laws, 
regulations, standards, and best practices leads to increased usage and deployment 
by facilitating adoption of Artificial Intelligence by government at all levels and the 
private sector. 
4 ForHumanity Inc. a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt Public Charity 


