Frederick County: Rich History, Bright Future  
Winchester Hall  ● 12 East Church Street, Frederick, MD 2170 1 ● ● Fax 
www.FrederickCountyMD.gov  FREDERICK COUNTY GOVERNMENT  
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY EXECUTIVE    Jes
Co
March 13, 2025 
Arati Prabhakar , Director  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  
Executive Office of the President  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building  
1650 Pennsylvania Avenue  
Washington, D.C. 20504  
Dear Director Prabhakar , 
As the County Executive of Frederick County, Maryland, I write to provide perspective on local 
issues related to artificial intelligence (AI) as the White House Office of Science and Technology 
Policy creates its Artificial Intelligence Action Plan.  While developing this action plan, I urge the 
Office to not interfere with  the authority of local governments to regulate the planning, zoning, 
and siting of data centers  to protect our community’s quality of life.  
As recognized in the Request for Information and President Trump ’s Executive Order 14179 
(Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence) , the development of AI is 
and will continue to drive the demand and growth of the data center industry. Frederick County, 
located approximately 20 miles north of Northern Virginia's internet ecosystem , is currently the 
home of two small data centers and a 2,100 -acre data center campus currently under 
development.  
As our community’s proximity to Loudon County makes it attractive to data center developers , I 
convened the Frederick County Data Centers Workgroup  in June of 2023  to examine existing 
laws and make recommendations for regulating the rapidly evolving data center industry. At that 
time, I noted that Northern Virginia’s experience highlighted that the data center industry could 
bring economic and tax benefits but also concerns about environmental sustainability, energy 
and water usage, noise, vibration, and impacts on quality of  life.  
The Frederick County Council is currently considering legislation to update our Critical Digital 
Infrastructure Ordinance to enact some of the recommendations of the Workgroup, such as siting 
criteria and noise regulation, and better reflect the realities of the evolving data center industry. It 
is crucially important for local governments to maintain local land use authority so we can 
effectively meet the needs of our communities.  
Additionally, the significant energy consumption of data centers and artificial intelligence 
warrants close attention at all levels of government. This high energy use will add more stress to 
an already strained electric grid and could increase electricity rates. Energy infra structure 
expansion to meet that demand  could also result in significant costs to local governments and 
consumers . Frederick County is currently facing the impacts of a proposed transmission line, the 
Maryland Piedmont Reliability Project, to meet the energy needs of the data center industry in 


Frederick County Government – County Executive Fitzwater  
RE: White House Artificial Intelligence Action Plan  
March 13, 2025  Page 2 
Frederick County: Rich History, Bright Future  
Winchester Hall  ● 12 East Church Street, Frederick, MD 2170 1 ● ● Fax 
www.FrederickCountyMD.gov  Northern Virginia. The federal government should make efforts to mitigate the disruption that 
energy infrastructure projects cause in communities.  
As Frederick County Executive,  I urge the federal government to protect local governments' 
authority concerning planning, zoning, and siting  of data centers and their campuses . To ensure 
these developing technologies continue to provide meaningful innovation  and community 
benefits without threatening our quality of life , local governments must be able to responsibly 
site infrastructure , plan effectively, and address livability concerns surrounding data center 
development.  
Thank you for the opportunity to provide this perspective . 
Sincerely,  
_____________________________  
Jessica Fitzwater, County Executive  


