March 15, 2025 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development National Coordination 
Office 
National Science Foundation 
490 L’Enfant Plaza SW, Suite 8001 
Washington, DC 20024 
Re:  Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan 
To whom it may concern: 
After a decade of research and analysis on immigration, workforce, and technology issues, 
FWD.us understands that immigration is one of the United States’ greatest competitive 
advantages. We are especially attentive to the importance of policies to win the global race for 
talent by attracting and retaining individuals with advanced education and specialized training in 
critical industries,1 including artificial intelligence. We look closely and critically at immigration 
policies that affect individuals with education and training in science, technology, engineering, 
and math (STEM) fields, including international students2 who earn their degrees at U.S. 
colleges and universities. 
In this spirit, we submit these comments in response to the Request for Information (RFI) titled, 
“Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan.” A.AI Action Plan must address pressing talent shortages and skills gaps
On January 23, 2025, President Trump signed Executive Order 14171, “Removing Barriers to 
American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence,” establishing the administration’s goal to 
“solidify our position as the global leader in AI and secure a brighter future for all Americans.” 
To achieve this goal, the United States will need a plan to attract and retain more individuals with 
highly specialized education, skills, and experience to contribute to AI ventures here. 
2 FWD.us, “Retaining U.S. International Student Graduates Could Help the U.S. Win the Global Talent Race,” 
February 2022, https://www.fwd.us/news/us-international-students; FWD.us, “Advanced International STEM 
Students Increasingly Anticipate Shorter-Term Work Stays After Graduation. The U.S. Can Do More To Retain 
Them,” September 2024, https://www.fwd.us/news/stem-international-students.  1 FWD.us, “Strengthening America’s Competitiveness and Security by Welcoming More Immigrants With STEM 
Skills,” April 2023, https://www.fwd.us/news/stem-immigrants.  
1 


One significant but solvable challenge to America’s AI competitiveness is the fact that there are 
not enough qualified individuals in the U.S. workforce to meet the needs of current, much less 
future, AI ventures. A 2019 analysis by the Center for Security and Emerging Technologies 
(CSET) at Georgetown University found that “there is broad consensus in the field that talent 
shortages are substantial,”3 and a more recent Reuters report estimates current AI talent shortages 
at 50%.4 A 2023 report from global consulting firm McKinsey found that many employers are 
still struggling to fill AI-related positions.5 As other sectors incorporate AI more deeply, the AI 
skills gap will challenge their future growth, as well.6 
Addressing these talent gaps will certainly involve optimizing the U.S. workforce to fill roles in 
these industries, including increasing the number of domestic students who earn advanced 
degrees in STEM fields and train for jobs in relevant sectors, and “reskilling” or “upskilling” to 
support current workers adapting to new and changing fields. 
However, an AI talent plan must also acknowledge, account for, and seek to maximize the 
contributions made by foreign-born experts, researchers, and workers with relevant STEM 
training and experience in AI and related sectors. B.Foreign-born STEM experts are a critical component of our AI workforce
Immigrants make up a significant share of the STEM workforce in the U.S. The National 
Science Foundation’s (NSF) 2024 Science and Engineering Indicators report found that “in 2021, 
foreign-born workers (regardless of citizenship status) accounted for 19% of the STEM 
workforce. Foreign-born workers accounted for 19% of workers in S&E occupations at the 
bachelor’s degree level, 37% at the master’s degree level, and 43% at the doctorate level.”7  
International students who graduate from U.S. colleges and universities are a significant part of 
the foreign-born STEM workforce. Since 2008, about 44% of all advanced STEM degrees 
awarded by U.S. colleges and universities have gone to international graduates, and about 46% 
of all advanced degrees awarded to international graduates were in STEM fields.8 These trends 
hold true for AI, where “the majority of workers in AI-related jobs and students in AI-related 
graduate programs are not originally from the United States.”9 
9 Zwetsloot, “Strengthening the U.S. AI Workforce.” 8 FWD.us, “High-Skilled Immigration: 5 Things to Know,” February 2025, 
https://www.fwd.us/news/high-skilled-immigration-5-things-to-know.  7 Steven Deitz and Christina Freyman, “The State of U.S. Science and Engineering 2024,” National Science 
Foundation, March 2024, https://ncses.nsf.gov/pubs/nsb20243.  6 SecurityIntelligence, “ISC2 Cybersecurity Workforce Study: Shortage of AI skilled workers,” January 2025, 
https://securityintelligence.com/articles/isc2-cybersecurity-workforce-study-shortage-ai-skilled-workers/.  5 McKinsey, “The state of AI in 2023: Generative AI’s breakout year,” August 2023, 
https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/quantumblack/our-insights/the-state-of-ai-in-2023-generative-ais-breakout-y
ear#talent. 4 Mark Dangelo, “Needed AI skills facing unknown regulations and advancements,” Reuters,  3 Remco Zwetsloot, “Strengthening the U.S. AI Workforce,” Center for Security and Emerging Technologies 
(CSET), September 2019, https://cset.georgetown.edu/publication/strengthening-the-u-s-ai-workforce.  
2 


It is clear that the current AI workforce relies significantly on the contributions of immigrants, 
and that immigrants will continue to be an important part of the AI workforce into the future, 
especially in addressing immediate workforce needs. A recent Center for Strategic and 
International Studies analysis explains that “while training and educating STEM talent 
domestically among elementary school and high school students will address future workforce 
needs, it is more of a generational strategy—one that does not solve the acute, near-term 
shortages that high-tech industries and U.S. federal S&E-related agencies struggle with.”  
In the short- and long-term, immigration is a powerful complement to the U.S.-born workforce 
and a potentially key competitive advantage for the U.S. in the global AI race. Commenting on 
the NSF’s findings, a National Science Board member concurred, noting that, “Going forward, 
it’s vital that we cultivate the diversity of our domestic STEM talent while strengthening our 
capacity to attract and retain international students and professionals.”10 C.Increasing retention of global talent will strengthen America’s hand in the
global AI race
For decades, the U.S. has been the premier destination for individuals seeking the best higher 
education and career opportunities in STEM fields. The fact that the world’s best and brightest 
minds want to come here above anywhere else is a tremendous competitive advantage. But we 
cannot take for granted that international STEM experts will continue  to see the U.S. as the top 
choice to earn their education and contribute their skills, particularly in the face of aggressive 
recruiting challenges by other countries.  
CSET explains that “other countries, most notably China, are actively trying to transfer and 
absorb AI knowledge and technology from the United States for their industries and militaries.”11 
This includes recruiting current AI experts and talent away from the U.S. and attracting future 
talent by recruiting international students to study in their countries instead of the U.S.  
Their efforts are helped by restrictive immigration policies in the U.S. that are diminishing 
international students’ ability and interest in coming to the U.S. to study or remaining in the U.S. 
to work after graduation.12 These restrictions are also hampering U.S. companies’ ability to hire 
employees to fill positions here, leading them to move operations and hiring outside the U.S.13 
However, the U.S. can defeat these challenges and strengthen its competitive advantage by 
taking steps to increase the attraction and retention of global talent. Retaining talent is a twofold 
victory for the U.S.; not only do we benefit from their contributions (and in the case of 
13 Tina Huang and Zachary Arnold, “Immigration Policy and the Global Competition for AI Talent,” CSET, June 
2020, https://cset.georgetown.edu/publication/immigration-policy-and-the-global-competition-for-ai-talent.  12 FWD.us, “Advanced International STEM Students Increasingly Anticipate Shorter-Term Work Stays After 
Graduation. The U.S. Can Do More To Retain Them.” 11 Zwetsloot, “Strengthening the U.S. AI Workforce.” 10 “New report shows the importance of foreign-born talent to the U.S. STEM workforce,” National Science 
Foundation, May 2024, https://www.nsf.gov/nsb/news/news_summ.jsp?cntn_id=309769.  
3 


international graduates, reap the rewards of our investment in their education), but we also deny 
our competitors access to their innovation and productivity. In industries that are defined by 
intense races to the next breakthrough and incredibly limited access to talent, every additional 
person we can recruit to our team adds tremendous value and advantage to our side. 
President Trump14 and his close advisors15 have commented publicly about the importance of 
modernizing policies to attract and retain top global talent. Leaders in the AI space agree; for 
example, the CEO of the Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence wrote in 2019 that the Trump 
administration’s AI efforts should “include a special visa program for AI students and experts to 
help us win this race for the sake of both economic vitality and national security.”16 
As the Trump administration prepares its next set of AI priorities and orders, it should include 
concrete measures to increase the attraction and retention of global AI talent, particularly 
international graduates of U.S. colleges and universities. D.Opportunity to retain more international students graduating from U.S.
schools
Fortunately, there are already significant numbers of international students graduating from U.S. 
colleges and universities each year with degrees relevant to AI.  
Based on graduation statistics in recent years, we anticipate that some 25,000 international 
students likely graduate with AI-related advanced degrees in the U.S. each year, including in 
computer science and computer engineering, according to FWD.us analysis of National Center of 
Education Statistics.17 And likely as many as 19,000 of those students would like to remain in the 
U.S. for some time after graduation, based on a FWD.us survey of prospective international 
students seeking advanced degrees.18 
More broadly, FWD.us analysis projects that 100,000 additional international student graduates 
each year would stay and work permanently in the U.S. if a pathway existed, adding up to $233 
billion to the U.S. economy and reducing STEM-related talent shortages by about a quarter.19 
19 Ibid.18 FWD.us, “Retaining U.S. International Student Graduates Could Help the U.S. Win the Global Talent Race.”17 FWD.us, “Modernizing Schedule A for Critical and Emerging Industries,” January 2024,
https://www.fwd.us/news/schedule-a-rfi#ai.16 Oren Etzioni, “What Trump’s Executive Order on AI Is Missing,” WIRED, September 2019,
https://www.wired.com/story/what-trumps-executive-order-on-ai-is-missing.15 Chris Pandolfo, “Elon Musk combats anti-immigration sentiment in posts decrying 'dire shortage' of tech talent,”
Fox Business, December 2024,
https://www.foxbusiness.com/politics/elon-musk-combats-anti-immigration-sentiment-posts-decrying-dire-shortage-
tech-talent.14 Alexandra Ulmer and Gram Slattery, “Trump says foreigners who graduate from US colleges should get green 
cards,” Reuters, June 2024, 
https://www.reuters.com/world/us/trump-says-foreign-college-graduates-should-automatically-get-green-cards-2024
-06-20.
4 


However, the majority of international student graduates, including significant shares of advanced 
degree recipients, do not remain in the U.S. after graduation, in large part because of a lack of 
pathways available to them.20 While stay rates for STEM PhD graduates are much better,21 they 
still face a long, complicated, and expensive bureaucratic road to secure the kind of permanent 
status that provides certainty about their future and allows them to work on more restricted 
government-funded projects in these specialized fields that typically require at least a green card. 
E.Policy Recommendations to Increase Retention and Streamline Processes
FWD.us has published numerous resources outlining policy recommendations to streamline 
outdated processes in the legal immigration system and increase the retention of international 
student graduates.22 We urge the administration to include these policy priorities in its AI plan: 
●Preserve and improve legal immigration pathways for international student
graduates, including Optional Practical Training (OPT), H-1B, and O-1.
These programs are important for the attraction and retention of global talent, including students. 
The availability of post-graduation work opportunities is a significant factor shaping prospective 
students’ decision to study in the United States.23 The Optional Practical Training (OPT) program 
gives students hands-on experience in their field of study as well as opportunities to build career 
skills and establish relationships with future employers.24 After graduating, skills-based pathways 
like the H-1B25 and O-1 visas are the primary options for international graduates to remain and 
work in the U.S. until they can secure permanent residency.  
Recent administrative efforts to modernize processes, clarify guidance, and expand access to these 
programs have been very successful in strengthening retention in the face of declining enrollment 
and student interest in longer-term stays.26 This administration should continue and increase 
outreach efforts to make sure students and employers are aware of these available pathways, and 
continue to regularly update guidance for the public and adjudicators to provide clarity about who 
can qualify and what evidence is most effective. These programs are already in place—we should 
be getting the most out of them. The administration should also clearly commit to preserving and 
26 FWD.us, “ Advanced International STEM Students Increasingly Anticipate Shorter-Term Work Stays After 
Graduation. The U.S. Can Do More To Retain Them,” September 2024, 
https://www.fwd.us/news/stem-international-students. 25 FWD.us, “The H-1B Visa Program: Policy Brief,” January 2025, https://www.fwd.us/news/h1b-visa-program.  24 FWD.us, “What is OPT? Optional Practical Training Policy Brief,” October 2024, 
https://www.fwd.us/news/what-is-opt.  23 Shorelight, “The Essential Role of Practical Training in U.S. Higher Education and the Innovation Economy,” 
May 2024, https://shorelight.com/student-stories/the-essential-role-of-practical-training-in-u-s-higher-education.  22 FWD.us, “Retaining International Student Graduates: 5 Policy Proposals for Congress,” October 2024, 
https://www.fwd.us/news/retaining-international-student-graduates.  21 Jack Corrigan, James Dunham, and Remco Zwetsloot, “The Long-Term Stay Rates of International STEM PhD 
Graduates,” CSET, April 2022, 
https://cset.georgetown.edu/publication/the-long-term-stay-rates-of-international-stem-phd-graduates.  20 Connor O’Brien, “Most International Graduates of American Universities Ultimately Leave the U.S.,” Economic 
Innovation Group, June 2024, https://eig.org/immigrant-retention-estimates.  
5 


strengthening the OPT program, to maximize its effectiveness and to communicate to prospective 
students that it will remain available should they choose to study in the U.S. 
●Streamline the legal immigration process through the use of existing efficiency
mechanisms like Schedule A.
Whereas the previous administration failed to follow through on the thousands of public 
comments expressing support for restoring and modernizing the Schedule A process, this 
administration has an opportunity to lead in streamlining legal immigration processes, saving time 
and taxpayer dollars while cutting through bureaucratic red tape. This simple policy change was 
recommended by the bipartisan House Select Committee on the Strategic Competition Between 
the United States and the Chinese Communist Party.27 
As we described in our own response,28 establishing an objectively measurable, self-executing 
filter, so that intensive processes like permanent labor certification (PERM) are only required 
when necessary to protect U.S. workers, would strengthen America’s hand in the global 
competition for talent by providing more predictability for highly educated and skilled STEM 
experts considering job opportunities in the U.S., and for the companies seeking to hire them.29 
FWD.us analyzed PERM filings over fiscal years 2021, 2022, and 2023 to identify any trends 
that might be evident in the data from employers that file the largest numbers of PERM 
applications for advanced degree holders.30 Looking at the employers who filed at least 500 
PERM requests over the three most recent fiscal years for positions where a Master’s or above 
was the minimum educational requirement, there are a number of occupations for which PERM 
certifications were granted more than 99% of the time. And nine out of the top ten of these 
occupations are STEM jobs. Occupations like these would be strong candidates for consideration 
in an updated Schedule A list. 
By reducing the PERM workload for DOL, this expedited process would save taxpayer dollars as 
well. According to FWD.us analysis, an annual average of about 70,000 PERM applications 
were filed for workers in occupations that we classified as STEM over the last three years. If 
30 FWD.us analysis of Department of Labor PERM Disclosure Data (accessed at 
https://www.dol.gov/agencies/eta/foreign-labor/performance) for fiscal years 2021, 2022, and 2023. Data are filtered 
to show PERM certification filings for occupations requiring at least a Master’s degree, and by employers who 
submitted at least 500 certification filings for such occupations over fiscal years 2021-2023.  29 While we are not proposing a specific methodology for creating or implementing such a filter, we encourage the 
Department to seriously consider proposals put forward by experts such as the Institute for Progress (see for 
example Institute for Progress, “Help Wanted: Modernizing the Schedule A Shortage Occupation List,” December 
2023, https://ifp.org/schedule-a).  28 FWD.us, “Modernizing Schedule A for Critical and Emerging Industries,” January 2024, 
https://www.fwd.us/news/schedule-a-rfi.  27 The Select Committee on the Strategic Competition Between the United States and the Chinese Communist Party, 
“Reset, Prevent, Build: A Strategy to Win America’s Economic Competition with the Chinese Communist Party,” 
https://selectcommitteeontheccp.house.gov/sites/evo-subsites/selectcommitteeontheccp.house.gov/files/evo-media-d
ocument/reset-prevent-build-scc-report.pdf.  
6 


these STEM occupations had been included on Schedule A, this would have saved nearly $6.2 
million on average annually to process the applications.31 
●Address the impacts of green card backlogs on long-term workers and their families
living in the U.S.
Outdated laws governing the issuance of green cards to employment-based immigrants have 
created a backlog of individuals who qualify for permanent residency but may have to wait 
decades until they actually get their green cards.32 During this time, their ability to change jobs or 
employers is heavily restricted, as is their spouses’ ability to work to support themselves, their 
families, and their communities.33 While waiting in backlogs, their children are at risk of aging out 
of their dependent status and being forced to leave the country.34 Research shows that green card 
backlogs motivate highly skilled immigrants, many who have already lived in the U.S. for a long 
time, to consider leaving for other countries with more family-friendly policies.35 
There are steps the administration can take to relieve families of the negative effects of the green 
card backlog. The administration could clarify eligibility for case-by-case relief for children of 
backlogged immigrants, and eligibility for work permits under “compelling circumstances.” The 
H-4 EAD program, which provides work authorization for certain spouses of backlogged H-1B
visa holders seeking green cards, has been a resounding success and should be preserved. In
addition, the administration should explore available actions to expedite access to green cards for
people in the backlog, such as administrative recapture of previously wasted employment-based
green cards36 and potential changes to the visa bulletin.37
37 Stuart Anderson, “Changing Visa Bulletin Could Save Immigrants And H-1B Visa Holders,” Forbes, September 
2023, 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/stuartanderson/2023/09/06/changing-visa-bulletin-could-save-immigrants-and-h-1b-vi
sa-holders.  36 FWD.us, “Green card recapture and reform would reduce immigration backlogs,” January 2025, 
https://www.fwd.us/news/green-card-recapture. 35 Pooja B. Vijayakumar and Christopher J. L. Cunninghamm “An Indentured Servant: The Impact of Green Card 
Waiting Time On the Life of Highly Skilled Indian Immigrants In the United States of America,” Industrial and 
Organizational Psychology Translational Research and Working Papers, January 2019, 
https://scholar.utc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1002&context=iopsy.  34 FWD.us, “Children of immigrants in green card backlogs face uncertain futures in the U.S.,” January 2024, 
https://www.fwd.us/news/children-of-immigrants-in-green-card-backlogs-face-uncertain-futures-in-the-u-s.  33 FWD.us, “H-4 EAD is Smart Policy that Should Be Preserved,” November 2024, https://www.fwd.us/news/h4ead. 32 FWD.us, “Per-Country Cap Reform: Priority Bill Spotlight,” December 2023, 
https://www.fwd.us/news/per-country-cap-reform-priority-bill-spotlight.  31 Analysis is based on Department of Labor data (https://www.dol.gov/agencies/eta/foreign-labor/performance) 
reporting the number of applications processed each year. The cost-saving analysis was produced by estimating the 
share of DOL’s Office of Foreign Labor Certification annual budget allocation (https://www.dol.gov/general/budget) 
that went towards processing PERM applications, and applying that cost to the share of PERM determinations that 
were for STEM and Healthcare occupations. PERM filings were sorted by their Standard Occupational 
Classification (SOC) according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics; for STEM, we included all occupations classified 
under SOC 15 (Computer and Mathematical Occupations), SOC 17-2000 (Engineers), and SOC 19 (Life, Physical, 
and Social Science Occupations); for healthcare, we included SOC 29 (Healthcare Practitioners and Technical 
Occupations) and SOC 31 (Healthcare Support Occupations). The calculations were based on annual averages for 
fiscal 2021, 2022, and 2023. 
7 


●Engage Congress on passing legislation to modernize the legal immigration system
and establish better options for international graduates.
Ultimately, only Congress can act to modernize our immigration laws and establish reliable 
pathways to attract and retain global talent, including international graduates and entrepreneurs. 
Despite the pressing need and plenty of good proposals,38 Congress has not mustered the political 
will to pass bipartisan legislation on this issue. 
In addition to administrative steps to streamline processes and improve processes for AI talent, 
we also urge this administration to directly engage leaders in Congress to propose and pass 
legislation to modernize our legal immigration system, to make it faster, easier, and more 
cost-effective for global talent to come and stay in the U.S. and contribute their talents here, 
particularly people with education and skills relevant to our AI efforts. F.Conclusion
The global race for talent will shape America’s ability to lead in any number of critical areas, 
including the AI race. We have built the world’s best system for training and educating top talent; 
now we must make sure we can capitalize on those investments. We strongly encourage you to 
incorporate these proposed actions and policies to strengthen recruitment and retention of global 
talent, preserving one of the United States’ greatest competitive advantages into the future. 
Respectfully submitted, 
Todd Schulte 
President 
On behalf of FWD.us 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
38  FWD.us, “Retaining International Student Graduates: 5 Policy Proposals for Congress.” 
8 


