Request for Information (RFI) 
In response to: NSF_FRDOC_0001, Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
Submitted to Office of Science and T
echnology Policy (OSTP) 
National Science Foundation 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National 
Coordination Office (NCO) 
Submitted by 
GE Vernova 
Point of Contact 
Name: Roger Martella 
Position: Executive Vice President, Chief Corporate Officer 
Phone: 
Email: 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
GE Vernova is pleased to submit this response to the Request for Information, which 
advances the President’s recent Executive Order 14179 on Artificial Intelligence. Energy is 
foundational to the President’s plan and GE Vernova is uniquely positioned to serve this 
critical need. 
Arguably, no single company is more invested, committed, and important to powering the needs 
of AI identified by the President than GE Vernova. GE Vernova is America’s leading energy 
manufacturing company and has pioneered technologies that have spurred world -transforming 
changes and improved the lives of billions. Our technology helps produce 25% of the world’ s 
electricity, our power generation equipment is deployed in more than 140 countries, equips 90% of transmission utilities worldwide, and 40% of the world’s electricity flows via GE Vernova 
software. GE Vernova is actively involved in all segments of the energy sector. 
We thank the OSTP and NSF for the opportunity to submit comments on one of the most 
pressing policy issues of our time and for the critical leadership in this space.  As described 
below, GE Vernova is uniquely positioned as a “1 of 1” American company to s
upport the 
Administration’s and the nation’s success on these must-win goals. 
GE VERNOVA IS AMERICA’S ENERGY MANUFACTURER GE Vernova is the only U.S. headquartered energy manufacturer of advanced technology 
and cutting-edge equipment across all energy sources and the grid – offering gas, nuclear, 


 
wind, steam, and hydro power technology; as well as grid resiliency equipment, solutions, 
software, solar and storage. GE Vernova leads grid modernization and resilience efforts with a 
multi-layered approach to cybersecurity and reliability for the world’s critical power systems. We 
service the products we sell and offer equipment upgrades that increase our products’ efficiency 
and availability. We invest roughly $1 billion per year into research to stay at the forefront of 
innovation and international competition. This innovation includes the only U.S. small modular 
reactor (SMR) currently under development, the BWRX-300, carbon capture and direct air 
capture, hydrogen integration into gas turbines, power conversion and storage solutions, and grid 
equipment and software designed to increase the reliability and ef ficiency of the grid. 
 
GE Vernova employs over 18,000 workers in the U.S. This includes workers in all 50 states and 
Puerto Rico with 18 major factories across the country and more than 70 domestic facilities. In 
February, we announced a new $600 million investment into the expansion of our U.S. manufacturing base covering gas, electrification systems, nuclear, and onshore wind, as well as 
our Advanced Research Center (ARC). The investment will create more than 1,500 U.S. jobs and 
is the first part of an expected $9 billion global expenditure planned over the next four years.  
 
 
GE VERNOVA IS UNIQUELY POSITIONED TO POWER U.S. ARTIFICIAL 
INTELLIGENCE (AI) LEADERSHIP 
 
As energy and electricity has become recognized as a key enabler within the AI and data center 
race, GE Vernova has emerged as the leading company for both grid connected and behind-
the-meter projects powering AI and data centers. In the past two months, GE Vernova has 
announced multiple partnerships to address the electricity component of the race, including:  
 
1. A partnership with Chevron and Engine No. 1 to develop scalable, reliable, multi-gigawatt 
power solutions for U.S. based data centers running on U.S. natural gas.  


2. A venture between GE Vernova, NRG Energy, and Kiewit Corporation to advance four
projects totaling over 5 gigawatts (GW) of new natural gas combined cycle power plants for
the ERCOT and PJM markets.
3. A strategic framework agreement (SFA) with Amazon Web Services (AWS) to support
AWS’s data center scaling with grid connectivity, and collaboration to address increasing
energy demand, grid security and reliability, and decarbonized electric power systems.
In addition to the commercial role GE Vernova serves, GE Vernova has taken a leadership role in 
organizing industry discussion on AI and electricity. Recently, we hosted the GENERATE 
conference to bring together leaders from the Power and AI industry to accelerate cross industry 
discussions. We saw an opportunity to converge a multitude of conversations happening across 
the industry into meaningful roundtables to break down industry siloes. In our inaugural event, 
we had senior leaders from the key constituencies including hyperscalers, utilities, system 
operators, regulators, and engineering, procurement, construction (EPC) companies. As a 
convener, we made progress in ensuring a comprehensive look at the needs to be solved within the electricity and AI nexus. We have continued to convene discussions with the most significant 
parties in the ecosystem, including at CERAWeek. 
On the manufacturing side, GE Vernova is well positioned to provide the needed generation and 
electrification technology. Our H-class gas turbine built in Greenville, SC, recently surpassed 
more than 3 million commercial operating hours and is only a part of our gas turbine portfolio – 
with over 7,000 installed gas turbines globally. Additionally, during our history, GE Vernova has 
deployed over 80 nuclear reactors. Developed at the headquarters of our nuclear business in 
Wilmington, NC, our next generation BWRX-300 SMR is poised to be the first SMR 
constructed by a U.S. company. Already in development, the first deployment will be in 
Ontario, Canada, and operational in 2029. We also serve the wind market as the top ranked U.S. 
onshore wind turbine installer with over 35,000 onshore wind turbines installed in the U.S. and 
factories in Florida, North Dakota, New York, and Texas.  


 
 
In our electrification business we offer a multitude of products for electric grids, battery energy 
storage, and advanced power conversion. This includes but is not limited to transformers, 
switchgears, generator circuit breakers, power quality products, inverters, High V oltage Direct 
Current (HVDC) systems, power electronics systems, battery energy storage and grid 
management softwares. With facilities in Florida, Pennsylvania, Louisiana, Wisconsin, and North 
Carolina, over 90% of global transmission utilities have been equipped with GE Vernova 
technologies and 30% of the world’s utilities utilize our software. 
 
Because of GE Vernova’s role and scale, we are uniquely well versed in the structure of the electricity system, AI and data center needs, and the interaction between the two. Our expertise 
allows us to evaluate the layered electricity system –at the local, state, Independent Power 
Purchasers (IPPs), utilities, Regional Transmission Organizations (RTOs) and Independent 
System Operators (ISOs), and federal levels – to provide insight into the opportunities and 
bottlenecks that need to be addressed to unlock the development of AI in the United States. 
 
In this response, we offer our expertise to evaluate: 
 
• Expected energy demand growth; 
• A roadmap for serving electricity demand in an affordable and reliable manner; and 
• Solving, via policy action and private sector innovation, expected bottlenecks associated with the rapid growth of electricity demand, in the areas of dispatchable power, grid 
readiness, behind the meter systems, and innovation. 
 
I. ENERGY DEMAND GROWTH   
Rapid proliferation of data centers and growth of AI are ushering in a new era of technological 
advancement and competitive advantage for the United States – as well as a global competitive 
risk if the U.S. does not foster an environment to maintain its ad vantage. In the race to AI 
leadership, access to power generation is a key enabler and differentiator. 
 
Within 2-3 years, hyperscale data centers – critical to U.S. competitive advantage in AI – are likely to reach 2,000 MW per site, consuming 10 million MWh of electricity annually. This is 
the equivalent of 1.7 million U.S. homes. Over the next 5-10 years, multiple hyperscalers are 
discussing even larger projects which would involve scaling to 5,000 MW at a site. 
 
As data centers see escalating volumes of digital information and intensity in computations, electricity generation and grid capacity must surge to meet their needs. Supplying new 
generation and grid capacity to meet growing demand with reliable, uninterrupted power is vital 
to safeguarding the nation's economic stability, competitiveness, societal resilience, and security.  
 
U.S. utilities expect grid connected electricity demand for data centers to grow from 185 million 
MWh, or 4.5% of U.S. electricity demand in 2023, to 600 million MWh, or 12% of electricity demand by 2035. This growth in electricity demand from data centers alone is the 
equivalent of more than three times the current electricity generation of New York State and 
would require more than 50,000 MW of dispatchable electricity generating capacity by 2035. 
 
In addition to this strong electricity demand growth to support data centers and AI growth, there 
is nearly 200 TWh/y of additional industrial demand growth through 2035 required to support 


the current administration’s efforts to revitalize U.S. manufacturing, attracting investment in chip 
manufacturing, and onshoring of other large industrial facilities.   
The large industrial and data center demand is heavily concentrated in certain geographies. 
Nearly one-third of the combined growth is concentrated in PJM, a regional transmission 
organization (RTO) that coordinates wholesale electricity markets across 13 states and the 
District of Columbia. The system operator estimates 40,000 MW of peak demand growth while 
retiring 40,000 MW of existing capacity in their region over the next 15 years. The Electric 
Reliability Council of Texas, ERCOT, accounts for more than one-quarter of the combined 
industrial and data center demand growth. The Mid-continent Independent System Operator, 
MISO, includes nearly 15% of the incremental industrial and data center demand growth. 
The firm power needs of industrial and data center demand will require dispatchable 
generation as a foundation. U.S.-produced gas will need to play a significant role meeting the 
immediate power needs. Gas turbine capacity can come online quickly at scale, with emissions 
that can reduce the carbon intensity of the grid while meeting the growing demand. Nuclear 
SMRs together with renewables can be integrated into the mix in future years. 
II. ROADMAP FOR MEETING U.S. DATA CENTER DEMANDMeeting the surging power demands of data centers will require a dual-track solution over the 
next 10-years. Alongside upgrading existing U.S. generation equipment to produce an additional 
16,000 MW across gas and nuclear, adding 48,000 MW of dispatchable, flexible gas turbine 
capacity to quickly meet the surging need for dispatchable power and 22,000MW of 
generation from nuclear SMRs and renewables is an achievable scenario. The approach 
supports a diversified power system capable of utilizing all energy resources to fulfill electricity 
need in a timely and cost-effective manner. New gas capacity additions would be front-end 
loaded to scale rapidly, while providing the dispatchable foundation required for reliability. This 
approach would also support some portions of capacity being added behind-the-meter.  
As we build dispatchable capacity now, gas remains the strongest option to support rapid 
growth with reliable, dispatchable generation with a small physical footprint – while 
ensuring the U.S. continues to produce electricity with the lowest emission intensity and cleanest 
water and air in the world. Over time, a greater proportion of renewables and SMRs could be 
layered in. Diversity of supply, inclusive of renewables and nuclear, has added value helping 
certain customers achieve their stated broader objectives for “all of the above” power to m eet 
affordability, reliability, and sustainability goals while reducing fuel price uncertainty risks. The approach requires expediting nuclear technologies available today  like GE Vernova’s BWRX-
300, the first SMR to be commercialized this decade. Utilizing renewable technologies enhances the speed in which electricity demand can be met and recognizes that some areas may 
may be attractive for renewables based on land availability, gas pipeline capacity, and a potential 
lack of carbon sequestration potential – thus reinforcing an important need for a US 
manufacturing base for renewables technologies. Over time, the approach enables emissions to 
be reduced in line with goals the utilities and hyperscalers have placed on emissions profiles. 


 
To meet growing demand Figure 1 
illustrates the proposed incremental 
electricity generation (in MWh/y) that new 
cumulative capacity could provide overlaid 
against data center demand growth. The 
figure is based on capacity factors and 
additional requirements for back-up and 
standby generation.   
 
Figure 2 shows the suggested timing of 
capacity additions and decarbonization 
upgrades (in MW) needed to fulfill the 
cumulative capacity progression in Figure 
1 in support of data center demand growth. 
 
Investment in grid electrification systems and software is needed to increase the 
capacity of existing transmission and to 
meet stringent data center power quality 
and reliability needs. For both grid-
connected and behind-the-meter projects, 
the electricity demand profile needed to 
meet AI and data center load growth is 
unique and challenging. While the focus is 
on the size of the power demand 
forthcoming, load shape is an equally important consideration. Not only are AI loads dense and 
significant, the millisecond fluctuations seen in training models requires intervention (load variability smoothing, stabilization systems, etc.) to ensure generation functions reliably . GE 
Vernova is developing and building such equipment and grid management software in the U.S.  
 
The U.S. winning the data center and AI race is a key geopolitical and economic goal. Moreover, ensuring the energy and electricity feeding the data centers is provided by U.S. companies should 
also be seen as a geopolitical and economic imperative. Success in both efforts is possible.  
 
III. SOLVING BOTTLENECKS TO ENERGY & ELECTRICITY DEPLOYMENT  
 
The surge in electricity demand is also fundamentally reshaping grid dynamics. Data centers 
require gigawatt-scale power commitments, with low-latency, high-reliability energy supply. 
This is unique. Whereas traditional industrial load growth has evolved over decades, AI demand 
is materializing in just a few years, outpacing grid expansion timelines.  
 
Areas of electricity pain points identified under the more traditional industrial load growth scenarios – such as interconnection bottlenecks, permitting delays, and the challenge of siting 
new generation and transmission infrastructure – are now exacerbated in the new AI and data 
center “space race” – threatening a scenario where traditional, segmented planning and approval 
processes do not advance quickly enough to keep pace. 
 


At the same time, AI workloads demand more than just megawatts—they require highly stable, 
resilient, and increasingly decarbonized power. This presents a dilemma: balancing grid 
reliability while integrating variable renewable energy, all while AI companies push for rapid 
deployment. New models are needed for capacity planning, flexible market structures, and 
behind-the-meter, and “grid-to-AI chip” solutions. Without strategic intervention, these 
challenges could lead to grid congestion, capacity shortages, and rising costs, making it clear that 
meeting AI-driven power demand will require both policy shifts and technology innovation. 
At GE Vernova, we understand these dynamics and have the capabilities to partner with the 
administration in a unique and impactful way. Given our breadth, experience, and commitment to 
innovation, GE Vernova presents a powerful partnership opportunity for the Administration to 
not just diagnose the current gaps, but to help ensure they are filled effectively and expeditiously. 
The section below dives deeper into four key bottlenecks: dispatchable power, grid readiness, 
enabling systems, behind-the-meter needs, and innovation.  
a)Dispatchable Power
Hyperscalers have been reaching out to existing utilities to discuss the power needs they have. 
The responses from utilities have been consistent. There is insufficient existing generating 
capacity to meet their dispatchable power needs. Furthermore, through normal channels and 
processes, the timeline required to permit, bid, procure, build, and interconnect new generation to 
meet this demand will require several years longer than the hyperscalers can afford to wait.  
As noted, AI data center electricity demand is unique and particularly challenging. The load 
shape is dense and significant and the millisecond fluctuations seen in training models requires 
additional consideration and intervention to help generation assets function reliably. Multi-GW 
data centers will require multiple blocks of power generation to meet compute power and 
thermal management needs 24/7/365. The solution to the constant electricity needs will likely be 
traditional on-grid electricity and services, behind-the-meter microgrid concepts, or a hybrid of 
the two. Regardless, the need for electricity to be continuous is certain.  
An additional piece of this issue is the need for additional dispatchable power to ensure the 
inertia and stability of the grid. In essence, inertia is an essential property of the grid that 
ensures that the grid can resist changes in generation and demand while ensuring continuity of 
supply to load. Different generation sources produce different levels of inertia. Large rotating 
machines like gas turbines hold significant inertia. The lower the inertia on the system, the less 
stable a grid is. In this case, extensive use of high variability generation combined with the high 
reliability needs of AI can introduce challenges to enabling a stable power delivery inside data 
centers. Instead, it would be appropriate to emphasize the need for additional dispatchable power 
balanced with the installation of higher-variability energy sources that can help ensure an 
affordable, diversified electricity more broadly. 
To reach sufficient dispatchable generating capacity for both industrial demand growth and the 
power needs for AI data centers, some recommendations follow: 
1.Ensure Upgrades to Existing Assets – Incentive and streamline the permitting and
regulatory process to allow for existing unit upgrades. For example, in North America


 
technology upgrades can be added to just one class of our industrial gas turbines that will 14 
GW to our system. Upgrading nuclear and restarting decommissioned sites can add 2 GW.  
 
2. Policy Supportive of Gas Generation Running at High-Capacity Factors – The Trump 
Administration through its Executive Orders and other statements has been clear on the 
importance of gas power for American energy security and national security goals.  It’s 
important that policies and regulations align, including EPA rulemakings, permitting reform, 
and grid interconnects, at the earliest opportunity, with durability and certainty.   
 
3. Expedited Deployment of Nuclear Energy – Nuclear technologies that are ready for 
deployment should be an emphasis across the U.S. Government, including by ensuring the 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) fulfills a proactive role in expediting new nuclear 
deployments.  As GE Vernova’s BWRX-300 is the only U.S. SMR design under 
development, such action would allow GE Vernova to expedite U.S. deployments. 
Domestically, we are partnered with the Tennessee Valley Authority, American Electric 
Power, and Duke Energy to advance U.S. development. Maintenance of the technology 
neutral credits (45Y/48E) which supports nuclear energy should also be maintained. 
 
4. Cementing Support for New Gas Generating Capacity– Given the need for significant 
capital investment across the supply chain for new gas capacity, Administration to 
Administration policy fluctuations regarding gas as a long-term electricity source has 
created uncertain investment cycles for original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and 
suppliers. Spells of uncertainty can limit the deployment of capital required to build new 
capacity. Action to ensure clarity on the long-term viability of gas is recommended, 
including durable legal and legislative support to cement long term ener gy policies that 
benefit Americans and partners beyond political cycles, as well the innovation and 
deployment of technologies that reduce the emission intensity of gas over time.  
 
5. Appropriate Consideration of Renewables – With GE Vernova’s unparalleled experience 
helping generate 25 percent of the world’s electricity, we see an important role for renewable 
energy sources and a strong U.S. renewable energy supply chain. The inclusion of renewable 
energy allows for energy addition in a rapid manner. With a streamlined permitting process 
for renewable energy balanced with an intentional buildout of dispatchable energy, the U.S. 
can ensure a rapid response to electricity demand growth in a manner that diversifies the 
grid and reduces any operating cost risks from fuel price uncertainty or gas pipeline 
capacity. Beyond just the additional needed electrons on the grid, continued deployment of 
wind supports a U.S. wind supply chain that reaches 300,000 direct and indirect U.S. workers and creates skills and programs to lift up workers in a global era of competition.  
 
6. Importance of Partnering with Full-Service Solutions Providers – Given the complexity 
the grid and AI load, working with technology companies, like GE Vernova, that can provide 
the full suite of products and services necessary to enable a full-service system adds to the likelihood of success and efficiency in achieving a successful project.    
b) Grid Readiness through Critical Grid Components and Software 
 


The power grid is often referred to as the “most complex machine” ever built. With roughly 
600,000 miles of high voltage transmission lines and 5.5 million miles of local distribution lines 
in the U.S., the network carries in excess of 4000 TWh of energy per year (the equivalent of 1.2 
billion barrels of oil per year). It is the backbone of our economy , powering everything from the 
largest industrials to rural consumers. It is also foundational to hyperscalers as it will be counted on to get electrons consistently and effectively to them to power the country’s AI ambitions. 
How the grid operates is often misunderstood. To perform reliably, the grid must be capable of 
matching supply and demand continuously. As demand rises, supply must ramp instantaneously. 
As demand falls, so must supply. It is a constant balancing act that continues to become more 
complex as generation and load increases. Specific to AI, the size and density of the loads 
combined with the frequent cycling of the loads (multiple times a second) can have unintended 
consequences on electricity voltage and oscillation if not managed with hardware and software. 
Unchecked, the voltage and oscillation fluctuations cause power supply problems that can lead to 
equipment malfunctions or damage impacting both the power generation equipment and the AI 
or data center equipment. The challenges are manageable, but it needs to be an area of focus. 
The grid of today has not been designed to meet the emerging needs and current infrastructure 
requires modernization. To maintain the level of performance and reach required, it is estimated 
that for every $1 invested in power generation, $3 will need to b e invested in grid infrastructure 
to facilitate effective and efficient electrons from the source of generation to consumption. As such, AI and industrial load growth isn’t just about more dispatchable generation but is also 
about the network that delivers these electrons. 
The challenges with today’s grid are multiple.  Transmission bottlenecks are one issue. 
Currently, the amount of long-distance transmission is inadequate for rapidly shifting demand 
centers, making it difficult to move power from generation sites to AI hubs.  As a result, regional 
networks are overloaded as many key AI growth locations (Northern Virginia, Texas, the Pacific Northwest) already face severe congestion, limiting power availability . This issue is 
increased in magnitude due to the long approval timelines required to build new transmission lines – a process of up to 10-15 years due to permitting, land acquisition, and regulatory hurdles.  
Interconnection delays also beleaguer efforts to attach new generation to the grid.  2,600+ GW 
of projects are waiting for grid access, with delays stretching 5+ years for approval. This backlog 
is not unique to any one technology. In many jurisdictions gas projects are delayed in a manner aligned to that of renewables. This is in part due to the complex approval process: studies and 
network upgrades are slow, costly, and often require coordinating multiple utilities and ISOs. 
At the local level, grid congestion and distribution constraints are also emerging. Many prime 
data center locations are in regions with an already saturated grid that is currently at capacity , 
meaning local infrastructure upgrades are required before more load can be added.  Transformer 
and substation limitations contribute to the localized issue as  existing distribution infrastructure 
was not designed for the high density, high reliability loads AI demands.  
Further, as load increases, the margins of excess electricity generation available is reduced to a 
range where new load connection will need to be halted to maintain the right levels of 
redundancy. This is driving hyperscalers to explore behind-the-meter (BTM) options. However , 


while this approach may work for hyperscalers, the BTM approach does not solve the grid issues 
facing the U.S. populace and is likely less efficient from a cost and reliability perspective. 
As the grid continues to evolve with distributed generation, new flexibility , and new loads, its 
complexity increases and real time visibility and control becomes increasingly important for 
system operators. This dynamic is true across both the transmission system and the distribution 
system. Situational awareness and reactiveness are no longer a luxury —it is essential to ensuring 
a reliable, resilient, and efficient grid in an era of unprecedented change. Beyond the hardware, more advanced automation and controls, like GE Vernova’s Grid-Beats, and more contemporary 
software, like GE Vernova’s GridOS, are needed to provide those who run our systems updated 
and accurate views as to what is happening across the grid and increase the ability to react.  
Grid-Beats is a comprehensive portfolio of software-defined automation solutions aimed at streamlining grid digitalization and enhancing grid resilience through faster controls, artificial 
intelligence/machine learning (AI/ML)-based automation at the substation and transmission 
level. Alongside it, our interoperable GridOS software is built to orchestrate grid management by 
integrating energy data, network modeling, and AI-driven augmentation. These systems are 
ones in which GE Vernova is also leveraging the benefits of AI. By utilizing AI to process 
vast amounts of data in real-time we are enabling decentralized decision -making and proactive 
management of grid assets. With these capabilities, utilities can better optimize grid utilization, improve operational efficiency, unlock new economic opportunities, and bolster grid resilience. 
Finally, regulatory and market barriers have a significant hand in today’s grid issues. Grid 
expansion planning is not keeping pace with hyperscaler or market demand, leading to a growing 
mismatch between energy needs and infrastructure.  Despite the need for more grid development, 
these regulatory and market barriers alongside decades of limited demand growth have combined 
to cause a lack of demand certainty for manufacturers. Due to the lack of investment into grid 
infrastructure in recent history, the necessity for U.S. manufacturing expansion of critical grid 
equipment has been limited. Today, all power and grid equipment confront multi-year backlogs, with a limited U.S. supply chain for grid equipment. Meeting the new need for 
electricity development and grid readiness requires ensuring manufacturing capacity to build and 
maintain some of the most critical equipment the grid relies upon —an essential factor in securing 
an abundant and reliable supply of energy to protect U.S. economic and national security 
To overcome these barriers, there is an opportunity to both incentivize the grid as a priority and 
to declutter processes that have traditionally gotten in the way . Recommendations include: 
1. Accelerated Transmission Expansion & Upgrades
•Streamline Permitting – Establish federal fast-track approval for high-priority
transmission projects to cut approval timelines from 10-15 years to much less.
•Expand Federal Siting Authority – Allow the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
(FERC) to override state roadblocks for critical transmission corridors.
•Incentivize Grid Investment – Provide tax credits or financing support for transmissionexpansion near high-demand AI hubs.


 
2. Reformed Interconnection Processes 
 
• Prioritize Ready Projects and Firm Capacity – Prioritize projects that are "shovel-
ready" to reduce speculative queue congestion, fast track firm dispatchable generation. 
• Mandate Faster Studies and Cost Transparency – Require ISOs and utilities to 
complete interconnection studies within 12-18 months. 
• Preemptive Grid Reinforcements – Encourage grid operators to proactively upgrade 
infrastructure in AI growth regions rather than waiting for interconnection requests. 
 
3. Upgrading Local Grid Infrastructure 
 
• Modernize Distribution Networks – Increase federal and state funding for substation, transformer, and voltage control upgrades in key AI data center regions. 
• Encourage Private Investment in Grid Capacity – Allow hyperscalers to co-fund or 
co-develop local transmission and distribution upgrades with utilities. 
• Develop Microgrid & Hybrid Models – Support AI hubs in building integrated grid-
connected microgrids that reduce reliance on centralized power delivery. 
 
4. Aligning Energy Markets with Hyperscaler Demand 
 
• Flexible Rate Structures – Adjust electricity pricing models to incentivize AI-driven high-load customers to locate in grid-friendly areas. 
• Demand-Side Grid Participation – Enable hyperscalers to contribute to grid stability 
via energy storage, demand response, and backup generation services. 
 
5. Expanding the Availability of Critical Equipment and Create Strategic Reserve 
 
• Manufacturing Support - Expand funding for domestic manufacturing expansion of 
critical grid equipment and components at U.S.-based factories, including through the Defense Production Act Article III provisions. 
• Strategic Reserves - Establish a strategic reserve of critical grid equipment.  
 
6. Improved Treatment of Grid Reliability Measures 
 
• Flexibility in Grid Software Upgrades – Direct utilities and utility commissions to allow software upgrades to be funded by changes to the utility rate base in order to maintain up-to-date safety, cybersecurity, and reliability programs.  
• Security Standards Alignment – Unify regulatory requirements for grid reliability, cybersecurity, and AI/autonomous control standards.  
 
GE Vernova is ready and willing to help in providing the technologies that will be required to build out this infrastructure. GE Vernova can also provide horizontal capabilities within our 
Consulting Services unit that brings to the forefront the capabilities needed to prioritize and 
deploy technology in the most effective and efficient ways possible.  
 
c) Enabling Systems & Behind-the-Meter Approaches 


The need for expected build out of infrastructure to meet both the time horizons and capability 
needs of hyperscalers necessitates that all options are on the table. Given many of the challenges 
noted across the network today (interconnection queues, permitting timelines and complexity, 
and sensitivity around impact to consumer rates), hyperscalers are assessing alternative and non-
traditional approaches to get the power they need when they need it.  
One non-traditional approach emerging is behind-the-meter (BTM) projects. BTM approaches 
are developing due to the absence of available grid-connected generation and transmission. At 
this time, the most prevalent options for BTM applications are either islanded and 
completely isolated from the bulk electric grid or connect “within the fence” of an existing 
grid-connected power plant. Islanded configurations allow for quicker deployment of 
generation than new grid connected generation due to the interconnection process, but most 
BTM applications will require back-up redundancy of turbines, energy storage and stability 
solutions, coordinated with multiple levels of electrical controls to keep the electric system stable 
and reliable. Additionally, BTM applications that are created from transitioning existing grid 
connected generation to dedicated power for a specific data center consumes a substantial 
amount of power that would normally be delivered to electric consumers, creating a resource adequacy gap. Models may emerge in which a BTM application takes a hybrid approach, 
developing new generation capacity that serves the data center while selling excess to the grid. 
These BTM structural models should be considered when assessing the nations desired approach. 
Planning should recognize that BTM offers benefits (such as speed to deployment), while 
noting that BTM approaches must be balanced with the opportunity to make the overall 
power system more reliable and efficient for AI and data center electricity needs and long-term 
industrial growth and affordability. A framework that balances speed, power quality, impact on 
the broader system, and economic feasibility must exist and be leveraged intelligently.  
Additionally, within both BTM and traditional grid approaches, there exists a unique need for 
more pre-integrated solutions if we expect to move at the pace necessary as an industry. It’s not 
just about the generation technologies; but also, the grid components (substations, transformers, 
switchgears) that integrate seamlessly to deliver power outcomes that hyperscalers need. Grid 
software must be utilized to tie all components together and provide visibility to the “system” 
while enabling rudimentary controls that adjust in near real time to the normal fluctuations in 
power delivery and transmission will be essential. Integrating these solutions requires 
understanding the increased complexity of both on-grid and off-grid power for hyperscalers.  
Achieving pre-integrated solutions requires a “grid-to-AI chip” approach with novel 
architectures based on Medium V oltage Direct Current (DC) and power stabilization for 
increased efficiency, stability, and reliability. Such new architectures require innovation such as 
solid-state transformers, DC protection systems, medium voltage uninterruptible power supply 
(UPS), and battery storage combined with advanced energy management systems. This is a space 
where GE Vernova is leading in developing and deploying new solutions. 
Critical to the BTM option is reliability and resiliency risk. As noted, hyperscalers require 
ultra-high uptime, yet off-grid solutions lack the grid’s inherent redundancy. This places greater 
pressure on private operators to ensure self-sufficient, always-on power without the grid’s 
stabilizing effect. Further, many energy policies and market structures are designed around grid-


connected customers. Off-grid hyperscaler projects may operate in regulatory gray areas, lacking 
access to market mechanisms like capacity markets or demand response programs. Additionally, 
large-scale, self-sufficient power generation requires significant land and fuel access, often straining local resources and regulatory frameworks - reinforcing the need for streamlined 
permitting approvals. Permitting and operational challenges also arise when hyperscalers 
demand immediate electricity access and turn to off-grid power using fossil fuels; yet also 
require long-term pathways to decarbonization of these assets. This fragmented energy planning 
risks inefficiencies, as private generation may not align with regional grid expansion strategies. 
Grid planners must factor in national and regional energy security. As hyperscalers move 
BTM, policy must consider the grid stability, market competitiveness, and energy resource 
allocation implications. Interoperability between private and public assets could become critical.  
The following recommendations would help in increasing speed and ef ficiency of build outs: 
1. Streamlined Permitting & Siting
•Expedited Permitting for both Private and Utility Generation Serving Hyperscaler
Demand – Create fast-track approval processes for hyperscaler-led energy projects,including natural gas, renewables, and battery storage.
•Standardized Siting Rules – Establish clear, uniform regulations across jurisdictions toreduce permitting bottlenecks and delays.
2. Energy Market & Interconnection Reform
•Flexible Grid Participation Models – Allow off-grid systems to engage in limited grid
services (e.g., capacity markets, emergency backup) without full interconnection burdens.
•Interconnection Fast-Track for Hybrid Solutions – Prioritize interconnection
approvals for projects that blend on-site generation with partial grid access.
3. Fuel Supply & Infrastructure Support
•Enhanced Natural Gas & Hydrogen Access – Streamline regulatory approvals for
pipeline and storage infrastructure to ensure reliable fuel supply for off-grid generation.
•Incentives for On-Site Energy Storage – Provide tax credits or grants for large-scalebattery deployment to enhance reliability without full grid dependence.
4.Tax & Investment Incentives
•Expanded Investment Tax Credit (ITC) & Production Tax Credit (PTC) Eligibility –
Extend existing tax credits to include private hyperscaler energy projects inclusive of gas.
•‘Speed to Power’ Incentives – Implement grants or funding mechanisms that reward
projects delivering rapid, reliable energy solutions for AI and data centers.
It is likely that the ultimate solve will be a combination of “Grid Connected” and “Off Grid”. In 
both instances, GE Vernova has the capability to support as evidenced by our work with 


customers engaging in both scenarios. Beyond comprehensive equipment and services portfolio 
across the generation and electrification landscapes, our in-house expertise can provide needed 
support in the areas of system solution stability, resiliency, and efficiency in all scenarios.  
d)Spurring American Energy Sector Innovation While Powering Data Centers
The opportunity to power data centers is not only about enabling power today. Investments made 
at scale will pay other significant dividends, including driving innovation. This required 
innovation is a positive. While the primary focus now is meeting the energy demand required to 
lead in AI and data centers, global energy technology deployment is itself an important 
geopolitical and economic race. Countries who lead in innovation such as SMRs, carbon capture, 
and hydrogen, and whose technologies and energy resources are deployed globally, will benefit 
from domestic job growth, increased manufacturing, and improved geopolitical standing born 
from the international partnerships associated with meeting global energy and electricity needs. 
However, competition in the domestic and global energy ecosystem requires continuous 
innovation to meet the needs and demands of customers. To ensure the U.S. remains leaders of 
global competition, U.S. innovators and technology manufacturers must achieve cost reductions in manufacturing, increase the efficiency of established technologies, and bring new 
breakthrough technologies demanded by customers to market to affordably in order to solve 
energy poverty while meeting rising electricity demand. It is vital that the U.S. Government 
builds strong partnerships with companies like GE Vernova to drive this innovation.  
One such example: many hyperscalers and utility customers have long term emission profile 
objectives and even state regulatory requirements to address their carbon footprint from 
operations. The opportunity to meet the full demands of electricity while innovating and 
deploying lower carbon intensity technologies at scale can further the trajectory toward such 
goals.  For example, GE Vernova in 2023 added 29 GW of capacity to the global grid while 
energizing 64GW of transformers. These energy additions were at a carbon intensity 25 percent 
below the grid as a whole, thus improving the trajectory of carbon emissions. Beyond improving 
carbon intensity, innovating breakthrough technologies such as the potential to retrofit gas assets 
built today with carbon capture technologies or to operate these assets with hydrogen in the 
future helps achieve the goals of the hyperscalers and advance U.S. leadership in innovation.   
We believe the American spirit of innovation cannot be told without us. With a history of 
innovation that traces back to Thomas Edison, generations of Americans can point to family 
members who worked with GE Vernova to build the manufacturing base and electricity system 
that helps power 25% of the world’s electricity. The innovation ethos carries through today as we 
invest $1+ billion per year into breakthrough technologies. Our research is driven by the needs of 
our customers domestically and abroad – ensuring the work we do aligns with market need. 
Our research is wide-ranging. It includes the BWRX-300 – the cutting-edge innovation from 
Wilmington, NC, providing a smaller and simplified version of 80+ deployed GE Vernova 
nuclear reactors. Our gas and fuels teams are delivering the first gas-fired power station with 
carbon capture and storage as part of the Teesside Project in the United Kingdom; as well as, 
developing new carbon capture and direct air capture solvents while driving efficiency 
improvement and hydrogen integration in our gas turbine offers. Similarly, we are leading in 


electricity equipment and systems research, including medium voltage DC systems with solid 
state transformer protection systems, DC uninterruptible power supply (UPS) advanced ener gy 
management systems, and electrification systems for high-heat industrial applications.  
As highlighted previously, GE Vernova is proud to be further integrating machine learning 
and AI into our power system control software to drive a better performing, more 
affordable grid. By utilizing our Grid Beats offering to create centralized virtual protection and 
control systems for substations and transmission applications and GridOS to manage the grid, 
these software systems enable decentralized zonal autonomous control – an approach that divides 
the grid network into autonomous zones that function efficiently together but can maintain relative independence to operate independently in case of disruption.  
To help ensure future U.S. innovations that will support the AI and data center race, we propose: 
1.Research Partnerships - Ensure Government funded research is done in partnership and
aligned with U.S. private sector innovators who will commercialize innovation.
2.SMR Deployment - Enable U.S. SMR development through existing programs at the
Department of Energy and potential early build cost-overrun insurance.
3.Early-Stage Research - Continue early-stage R&D programs like the Advanced ResearchProjects Agency – Energy (ARPA-E).
4.Competitive Advantage Development - Support DOE programs where the U.S. can lead,including carbon capture, electrification hardware, power systems controls, distributedgeneration integration, and industrial electrification.
5.Early Deployments - Guarantee financial and regulatory support for early deployments of
breakthrough U.S. technologies to ensure first deployments in the U.S. are successful while
developing supply chains and Intellectual Property (IP).
6.Supply Chain and Labor - Solve domestic supply chain and labor constraints to ensure the
prevention of future bottlenecks that could limit global market opportunity .
7.Department of Defense - Expand the Department of Defense’s R&D to include energy
security, grid hardening, and microgrids that serve the front line as well as the U.S. market.
IV. CONCLUSION
The Administration is right to prioritize the AI and data center race, as well as the need for
growth in generation and grid development in the United States. The U.S. addressing the global
data center and AI competition is a key geopolitical and economic goal. Within this, ensuring theenergy and electricity feeding the data centers is provided with U.S. technology should also be
seen as a geopolitical and economic imperative. Success in both ef forts is possible.
GE Vernova is aligned in this mission. As the American energy manufacturer serving the full 
spectrum of generation and grid, we well positioned to partner with policymakers and customers 
and to help design and build solutions required to meet growing data center electricity demand while making energy more secure and affordable for everyone. We look forward on the 
opportunity to engage further with the Administration and our partners together on these topics. 


