Getty Images  Holdings , Inc. 
(“Getty Images ”)  
Comm ents in R esponse to the the Request for Information on the  
Development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (“AI”) Action Plan  
As Published in the Federal Register as 2025 -02305 (90 FR 9088)  
Delivered via email to 
March 15,  2025  
Getty Imag es appreciates the opportunity to provide a response to the Request for 
Information (RFI) in the Federal Register on February 6, 2025 by the Networking and 
Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO), on behalf of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), for priority policy 
and regulatory actions for inclusion in the Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan.
1 
Backgrou nd 
Founded in 1995, Getty Images is a global visual content creator  and marketplace .  Getty 
Images represents and distributes images, videos, music and other creative works  of more 
than 550,000 individual creators  and more than 300 partner s, including AFP, the BBC, 
Bloomberg, the National Basketball Association, Paramount Pictures, Sky News, Sony Pictures, Universal Studios and the Washington Post.  Through our own investments in content and coverage and the combined outputs of the individuals and partners  we 
represent, Getty Images represents  a content library approaching 600  million visual 
illustrations, photos and videos  and adding more than 40 million new assets every yea r.  
We service approximately 800,000 businesses worldwide, with customers licensing over 95 
million pieces of content a year.   
In partner ship with  NVIDIA and others, Getty Images is also a creator and distributor  of 
high -quality generative AI models and services.  These models are  trained exclusively from 
our creative library, compensate  creators through an ongoing royalty when their content is 
used for training  and cannot produce outputs that violate third party intellectual property 
rights  nor personal rights ( e.g., deepfakes) . 
1 This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution . 


Getty Images is part of the broader creative industry .  In 2023, creative industries 
approached $1 trillion on economic output2 and will be approaching 10% of global GDP  by 
2030.3  In 2023, the US core copyright industries accounted for 7.66% of the US economy 
and employed approximately 11.6 million workers.4  The sales of US copyrighted works in 
foreign markets amounts to $272.6 billion.5 
 
Submission  
Getty Images ﬁrmly disagrees with any argument that current US copyright laws are an 
impediment to the development of AI models  and further disagrees with those seeking  to 
weaken US copyright protections by creating a “right to learn” exemption  to those laws.   
 Article 1 Section 8, Clause 8 of the US Constitution, referred to as the “Patent and 
Copyright Clause” , grants Congress the power “ to promote the progress of science and 
used arts by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their respective  writings and discoveries ”, which has been expanded over time to include a 
wide range of artistic and intellection works, from images to software.  Copyright law 
stands as a foundation for investment in creation.  It is not an impediment.  Weakening 
copyright law undermines the economic development of the United States.  It also has the 
potential to harm the development of AI models.  A  report issued by the US Copyright 
Office stated :
6   
 “… the displacement of human creators may, at some point, also slow the progress of 
generative -AI technology.   Human -generated works, on which foundation models are 
trained, fuel generative AI.  The output of these models is limited by the volume and quality 
of the input (human-generated works) .  The progression of the technology is currently 
contingent on ever -growing bodies of training materials (Sevilla et al., 2022; Villalobos et 
2 How The Growing Creative Economy Will Soon Devour The Real Economy . 
https://www.forbes.com/councils/forbestechcouncil/2023/05/16/how-the -growing-
creative -economy-will -soon -devour -the -real -economy  
3 Ibid.  
4 Robert Stoner & Jéssica Dutra, Copyright Industries in the U.S. Economy: The 2024 
Report, INT’L INTELL. PROP. ALL. (Feb. 2025), https://www.iipa.org/files/uploads/2025/02/IIPA-Copyright -Industries -in-the -U.S.-
Economy-Report -2024_ONLINE_FINAL.pdf . 
5 Ibid.  
6 See p.12, “Identifying the Economic Implications of Artificial Intelligence for Copyright 
Policy Context and Direction for Economic Research”, Edited by Brent Lutes, Chief Economist, United States Copyright Office: https://www.copyright.gov/economic -
research/economic -implications -of-ai/Identifying -the -Economic -Implications -of-Artificial -
Intelligence -for-Copyright -Policy-FINAL.pdf”   


al., 2022). Diminishing incentives for human creators may thus degrade the long -run 
capabilities of the technology to the extent that it limits the fuel needed to advance AI 
technology. ”  
US copyright laws are not obstructing the path to continued AI progress.  Instead, US 
copyright laws  are a path to sustainable AI and a path that broadens society’s participation 
in AI’s economic  beneﬁts, which reduces downstream economic burdens on the Federal, 
State and local government s.  US copyright laws provide incentives to invest and create . 
The same individuals and companies requesting exemptions to US copyright law 
acknowledge in other forums the need for AI to be broadly beneﬁcial.  As Sam Altman, the 
CEO of OpenAI, recently wrote on his blog7: 
“Ensuring that the beneﬁts of AGI are broadly distributed is critical … but increasing equality 
does not seem technologically determined and getting this right may require new ideas.  
In partic ular, it  does seem like the balance of power between capital and labor could easily 
get messed up, and this may require early intervention. ”   
As for what “ intervention ” might become necessary if the constitutional bedrock ensuring 
the value of intellectual property is thrown away, we only need to look to Mr. Altman’s comments on Universal Basic Income (UBI):
8: 
“I’m fairly conﬁdent that at some point in the future, as technology continues to eliminate 
traditional jobs and massive new wealth gets created, we’re going to see some version of this [UB I] at a national scale. ” 
Google’s AI chat bot deﬁnes UBI  as: 
“A social wel fare proposal where all citizens regularly receive a guaranteed minimum 
income, unconditionally, without any means test or work requirement. ”   
US copyright law is a n established vehicle to broaden societal  participation in AI wealth 
creation.   
Granting a “right to learn” copyright exemption would not be to a human.  This exemption 
would be granted to the world’s most power ful computers , which by 2030 will require mo re 
7 https://blog.samaltman.com/three -observations  
8 https://www.ycombinator.com/blog/basic -income  


than 10 percent of total US energy outputs  to run them9.  Efforts to equate the consumption 
of the entire  history of human creation with  such  compute power  to the efforts of a singular  
human inspired to create by  listening to an album, looking at art in a museum , or by reading 
a great novel  are based on an absolutely false  equivalence  and should be fully rejected . 
 
The se same  computers are owned and operated by some of the largest , most proﬁtable 
and deeply capitalized companies in the history of the free markets.   Granting a copyright 
exemption is the equivalent of granting a massive ﬁnancial subsidy to these companies.  A 
subsidy born e by other US economic sectors.   A subsidy that is not  required  and one that 
could have signiﬁcant downstream consequences  similar to those relating to the addition 
of Section 230  as part of the Digital Millenium Copyright Act.   Since granting this platform 
exemption, Ama zon, Google  and Meta  have increased their collective share of the half -
trillion digital advertising market to more than 60 percent.10  A subsidy where a potential 
outcome is the US government needing to implement a massive social safety net , such as 
UBI, and bearing the outcomes of reduced incentives for human work, creation and 
invention.   
 
Getty Images does not advocate for overly restrictive  controls on the development and 
deployment of AI that  could harm US competitiveness, national security or societal 
advances such as curing cancer, nor are we requesting  protection from existing and new 
sources of competition.  US copyright is a right bestowed upon the US people  by Congress 
as granted by the US Cons titution.  Their rights and opportunities should not be usurped for 
the commercial beneﬁts of these companies.  
 Accordingly, Getty Images advocates for  an AI Action Plan that: 
• Requires f ull transparency on the training data utilized by  AI model providers  making 
their models available in the US ; 
• Affirm s that the commercial deployment of AI models  where the AI model’s outputs 
compete for the same economic market as th e owners of the training data shall not 
be deemed “fair use” under US copyright law ;  
• Rejects blanket indemnity for AI model providers to create the incentive for AI 
models providers to reduce societal harms from the  deployment and use of their 
models  (e.g., deepfake pornography) ; and  
• Rejects unclear, untested and unfounded technology platforms requiring US copyright holders to “opt out” of training.  
9 https://www.mckinsey.com/featured-insights/sustainable -inclusive -growth/charts/ais -
power -binge  
10 EMARKETER:  https://www.marketingcharts.com/charts/us -digital -ad-spend-share -
google -vs-meta -vs-amazon 


