 88 Colin P Kelly Jr Street,  
 San Francisco, CA 94107  
 Tel:  (main)   March 14, 2025 
 Faisal D’Souza 
 National Coordination Office  
 Networking and Information Technology Research and Development 
 Program 
 2415 Eisenhower A venue  
 Alexandria, VA 22314 
 Dear Mr. D’Souza: 
 GitHub appreciates the opportunity to provide comments to the White 
 House Of fice of Science and T echnology Policy (OSTP) in its request for  
 information for the AI Action Plan. GitHub is the world’s leading platform  
 for software development, home to over  23 million developers in the  
 United States   and  150 million developers worldwide  collaborating on 
 software projects. GitHub is both a provider of the world’s leading AI  
 powered software development tools and a host of the full stack of open 
 source AI components. In 2024, GitHub hosted an   estimated   137,000 
 public generative AI projects, a 98% year over year growth. 
 AI-powered developer tools are already transforming software 
 development, accelerating productivity, skilling, scaling, and innovation in  
 software development. Likewise, most software components used to 
 build transformative AI innovations – such as the libraries and code used  
 to collect data, train and test models, and build applications that  
 democratize access to AI tools – are open source and hosted on GitHub. 
 Supporting the open source developer ecosystem is foundational to 
 advancing American AI opportunity.  
 In GitHub’s response to the “Request for Information on the Development 
 of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan,” we will focus on the significant 
 opportunities AI presents to American software developers, startups, and  
 companies. W e will discuss how the United States can maintain its  
 leadership in AI development through supporting the open source 
 ecosystem that is essential to AI innovation. Finally , we will provide  
 insight into how the United States will sustain AI opportunity in software 
 development through investing in security and resilience. GitHub  
 appreciates the opportunity to contribute our perspective on AI’ s 
 significant opportunities for software development and to advocate for the 
 1 


 interests of open source software developers as essential stakeholders in 
 the AI ecosystem. 
 AI Enhances Opportunity for American Software Developers 
 AI presents significant opportunities for the American economy and 
 workforce, especially for software development. With AI-powered tools, 
 developers can accelerate coding, streamline code maintenance, and 
 enhance cybersecurity, fostering a more competitive and innovative  
 software ecosystem. GitHub provides the world’ s most widely adopted AI 
 developer tool, GitHub Copilot. GitHub Copilot increases productivity and  
 code quality throughout the software development lifecycle, allowing  
 developers to spend less time on mundane tasks and to focus more 
 energy on problem solving and collaboration. Developers who use 
 Copilot report up to  75% higher satisfaction with their jobs than those 
 who don’t and are up to 55% more productive at writing code  without 
 sacrifice to quality. This is just the beginning for AI developer tools; by  
 leveraging these technologies, startups can scale faster and maintain  
 agility , attract investment, and bring groundbreaking solutions to market.  
 We anticipate that growing adoption of AI-powered developer tools could 
 boost global GDP by over   $1.5 trillion by 2030.  
 AI-powered developer tools lower the barriers to entry into software 
 development, making it easier for developers to learn how to code and 
 create their own software projects. For example, Copilot can take natural 
 language prompts, essentially instructions in plain English, and generate 
 code suggestions based on the instructions and context of the project. 
 GitHub Copilot can help developers learn new programming languages, 
 reskilling workers for the evolving job market. GitHub Copilot has already 
 grown to 1.8 million paid subscribers, 77,000 organizations, and has 
 generated over  3 billion accepted lines of code  . More than one million 
 open source maintainers and verified students and teachers have 
 received access to GitHub Copilot for free through our  complimentary 
 program  . In 2024, over  450,000 GitHub Education users  were first-time 
 contributors to projects on the platform. Low-code and no-code developer 
 tools enable users to build applications quickly and cost-effectively  
 through visual interfaces and pre-built components, reducing reliance on  
 traditional coding while improving accessibility , scalability, and 
 development speed.   GitHub Spark   , a recently introduced AI-powered 
 tool, can create micro applications tailored to a users’ exact needs and 
 preferences without needing to write or deploy any code. GitHub’ s CEO  
 Thomas Dohmke has articulated our ambition of enabling   1 billion people  
 to become developers by 2030  with these tools that make software 
 development considerably more accessible. 
 2 


 Open Source is Essential to AI Innovation 
 Open source software is a public good and educational resource, 
 enabling collaboration among professional developers, hobbyists, 
 companies, non-profits, and governments. In 2024, developers globally 
 made nearly  1 billion contributions  to open source and public repositories 
 across GitHub. This public good has created immense economic value 
 and has been supported by policymakers around the world for its benefits 
 to digital modernization, local industry, and cost savings. Studies have  
 shown that open source software can be found in   97% of codebases   and 
 its demand-side value to the global economy is estimated at  $8.8 trillion  . 
 Organizations invest an estimated  $7.7 billion  annually into open source 
 projects, primarily through employee labor. A   majority of the AI stack   , 
 including key frameworks and tools, is open source and hosted on 
 platforms like GitHub, allowing developers to build upon shared 
 advancements rather than starting from scratch. This open, collaborative 
 approach accelerates AI progress, fosters competition, and ensures that 
 innovation is not limited to a small number of entities. 
 The United States has created favorable conditions for the technology 
 industry to thrive  since the early days of the internet  , and it is critical to 
 maintain this approach to foster AI innovation. These favorable 
 conditions, including robust fair use and safe harbor protections, have 
 reduced uncertainty and risk for smaller players creating innovative 
 technologies. Open source has been a key pathway for American 
 startups to fully realize otherwise potential gains from a favorable policy 
 environment, and this is only accelerating in the age of AI. The United 
 States is already  leading in open source AI  , with 42% growth in AI 
 contributors and the largest number of contributions to generative AI 
 projects on GitHub in 2024. Embracing policies that protect open 
 collaboration and encourage transparency, while balancing the interests  
 of AI developers, rightsholders, and the public interest, will allow the 
 United States to maintain its leadership and harness the full potential of  
 AI. 
 Supporting AI Security and Resilience 
 AI is already transforming software security by enabling advanced threat 
 detection, automating vulnerability detection and remediation through 
 features like  GitHub Copilot Autofix,  and enhancing  real-time responses 
 to cyber threats. Because most AI systems rely on open source software, 
 maintained collaboratively on platforms like GitHub, AI security and open 
 source security are deeply interconnected. 
 When considering how to support the security and resilience of AI, the 
 United States should consider the particularities of the open source 
 software which makes up critical components of the AI stack. Open 
 3 


 source software is maintained by a global network of community-driven 
 contributions, both from developers as part of their jobs but also from 
 volunteers. Efforts to strengthen cybersecurity should have an 
 appropriate balance of responsibility , calling on better-resourced 
 stakeholders to contribute resources to maintaining and securing critical  
 dependencies, rather than overburdening individual contributors.  
 Pursuant to this effort, GitHub has launched the   GitHub   Secure Open 
 Source Fund  which provides funding for maintainers  linked directly to 
 improving security  . 
 Fostering global collaboration on the use of AI to improve cybersecurity 
 and other  tools  to increase resilience in the face of accelerating threats is 
 a key strategy for building trust in AI. Additionally, it helps counter  
 impulses toward overly broad regulation and market fragmentation, which  
 would harm opportunities for developers and US companies.  
 Conclusion 
 GitHub appreciates the opportunity to provide input on the development 
 of an AI action plan for the United States. As both the leading platform for 
 software development collaboration, and a provider of AI-powered 
 developer tools, we are especially aware of the immense opportunities AI 
 offers software developers, and the importance of open source software  
 in continued AI innovation. Through supporting open source AI  
 innovation, investing in security and resilience, and fostering AI  
 opportunity for developers and startups, the United States can sustain 
 and enhance its global AI leadership. 
 Sincerely,  
 Mike Linksvayer  
 VP, Developer Policy  
 “This document is approved for public dissemination. The document  
 contains no business-proprietary or confidential information. Document  
 contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action 
 Plan and associated documents without attribution.” 
 4 


