 
To: Faisal D'Souza, NCO  From: Jeremie Harris 
Office of Science and Technology Policy Gladstone AI 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 2152 Pump House Rd 
Alexandria, VA 22314 Murphysboro, IL 62966 
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution. 
 
The Future of Compute in America 
 
Note: For brevity, and due to time constraints, this document is written in point form. It 
was drafted based on input from (1) AI engineering and security researchers at 
America’s top AI labs, (2) state-level cabinet officials who have to wrestle with 
burdensome regulations every day to build hyperscaler AI and other national security 
infrastructure, (3) national security experts who counter some of our adversaries’ most 
advanced operations, and (4) some of the largest private AI data center companies in 
the United States.  
Desired end state 
 1. Ramp up AI training and inference cluster development in America.  
 
2. Secure AI training and inferencing clusters involved in developing AI systems 
with probable WMD-like or WMD-enabling capabilities against nation-state 
espionage and denial/disruption operations.  
Context 
 
● This document outlines measures that could kick off a robust Compute in 
America policy effort that will see us onshore our national security technology, 
retain and build on U.S. competitive advantage in AI, and accelerate innovation 
across our industrial base. We should expect to update our approach frequently 
1 


to keep up with new developments; the field moves too fast for a static 
framework.  
 
Definitions 
 
● Advanced AI clusters are AI-specialized computing clusters that may be 
geographically distributed (but still with dedicated point-to-point connections; no 
need to include all data centers connected over standard internet fiber 
connections) either: ○ With aggregate power supply of >50MW or; 
○ Expected to house AI processors in the aggregate capable of >2x10^20 
FLOP/s with sparsity, at any numerical representation or; 
○ That have trained, deployed, or stored models shown to be capable of 
independently producing strategic classified U.S. secrets when prompted, 
as determined by a relevant U.S. Government entity.  
● Critical AI clusters are AI-specialized computing clusters that may be 
geographically distributed (but still with dedicated point-to-point connections; no 
need to include all data centers connected over standard internet fiber 
connections) either: ○ With aggregate power supply of >200MW or; 
○ Expected to house AI processors in the aggregate capable of >8x10^20 
FLOP/s with sparsity, at any numerical representation or; 
○ That have trained or deployed models shown to be capable of WMD 
development (either autonomously or by supporting non-experts with such 
development), or shown capable of independently producing strategic 
classified U.S. secrets deemed by a relevant U.S. Government entity to be 
of critical importance to U.S. national security.  
Government support for American infrastructure 
Deregulation and tax incentives 
 
● Some types of security research – such as research focused on developing 
flexHEG technologies, or nation-state-level red teaming and hardening of frontier 
AI infrastructure  – are badly needed to ensure the security of domestic frontier 
AI development, and hard to fund commercially because security is viewed as a 
cost center rather than a competitive advantage at leading labs. The U.S. 
2 


Government could subsidize this work via grants and tax incentives. Investments 
frontier labs make in hardening against nation state espionage, theft, and 
sabotage are investments in U.S. national security.  
●The government could invoke DPA Title III to provide NEPA exemptions to
advanced and critical AI clusters and related dedicated energy infrastructure that
meet requirements that will be defined in the Government Support for Data
Center Security section.
●The government could introduce categorical exclusions to NEPA for no-impact
preliminary activities on these projects, like design, drilling boreholes, collecting
soil samples. This would help unlock early DOE Loan Programs Office financing.
Energy infrastructure & permitting 
●The President could declare AI-related power infrastructure as critical to national
security, enabling expedited processes.
●The President could direct federal agencies to establish a 3-month maximum
timeline for power infrastructure project approvals ("idea-to-construction").
●The President could direct agencies to revise the definition of energy
"emergency" to include supporting rapid development of infrastructure in a
competitive geopolitical context.○"Energy emergency" provisions are the workaround to environmental
opposition to carbon-intensive energy sources. In litigation against a
power generation build, emergency provisions (essential service
provisions, greater good, etc.) can be called on by the courts to enable
energy generation.
●The government could mandate consolidated/unified permitting processes across
federal agencies to eliminate redundant reviews. Refined processes should be
directly informed by a working group with representation by industry and the
states to ensure the points of greatest friction are removed.
Environmental review reform 
3 


● The President could order agencies to reform environmental review processes to 
enable rapid approvals, and establish expedited environmental review processes 
for AI/compute-related power projects. 
 
● The President could direct creation of limits on litigation options for designated 
critical infrastructure projects. 
○ In particular, expedited court decisions. For example: a mandate that 
cases need to be concluded within 30 days. Every mechanism for delay 
should be time-bounded. 
Workforce development 
 
● The Department of Labor could establish accelerated training programs for 
utility/power infrastructure trades. 
 
● The Department of Labor could order creation of a national apprenticeship 
program focused on power infrastructure construction and sponsor state-level 
programs (e.g. grants) calibrated for the most relevant trades and energy 
industries in their territory. Federal apprenticeship programs could include a 
one-year fellowship with a key department or agency to ensure the executive 
branch remains attuned to the industry’s needs.  
Critical infrastructure security 
 
● The President could order enhanced physical and cybersecurity requirements for 
power infrastructure serving AI compute facilities. 
 
● The Department of Homeland Security could direct coordination between federal 
agencies on infrastructure security evaluations. 
 
● The Department of Homeland Security could mandate the creation of 
information-sharing protocols between public/private entities on infrastructure 
security.  
● DHS and DOE, with the support of the CIA and NSA could study the feasibility of 
securing fiber communications between data centers to form geographically 
distributed clusters. This is very time-sensitive, since it affects data center design 
decisions that are difficult to reverse once made.  
4 


○This study should consider the trade-offs between (1) the risks introduced
by dark fiber security vulnerabilities and (2) the access to power that
geographically distributed clusters (featuring sites linked together by dark
fiber) would provide.
 Resource access 
●The President could direct agencies to expedite access to critical minerals
needed for infrastructure development, granting priority access to critical and
advanced cluster component supply chains.
●Same dereg/permitting approvals terms as above (<3 months, etc.) could apply
here to critical minerals.
●In addition, the President could suspend or mitigate the FCPA abroad, which is
increasing the effective cost of U.S.-based companies to explore and extract
critical minerals outside the United States.○Note that FCPA is Congressionally mandated so recommend a WH legal
review to understand to what extent this can in fact be mandated.
●The President could order a review/reform of restrictions on domestic mining and
resource extraction.
●The President could order a review of legal recourse/penalties for weaponization
of lawfare with increased penalties for conspiring with or involvement with foreign
entities. In addition to increased penalties, legal costs could be borne by the
entity under review.
Government support for secure AI data centers in America 
Personnel security 
●The President could direct the U.S. Government to develop (90 days) and offer
(120 days) a timely and effective background check option for sensitive roles at
advanced AI clusters, critical AI clusters, and AI labs, or develop the criteria that
these entities should/must use to perform such background checks and make
hiring decisions based on them.
5 


Government support for data center security 
●To maintain our lead in AI, we must build the AI data centers of the future in
America. To avoid our adversaries simply stealing our advances, those data
centers need to be secure against adversary infiltration. But data centers take a
long time to build and cannot be retrofitted for adequate security at this level after
the fact. This means we need to build this infrastructure securely now.
●There could be some “best effort” U.S. Government-incentivized (tax incentives,
funding, resources made available, etc.) directed at strengthening the security of
existing clusters. Otherwise America’s future AI models — that will be trained on
today's clusters — will just end up in the CCP’s hands automatically.
●The President could instruct CISA and the AISI, with technical support from NSA,
CIA, and CYBERCOM, to define security requirements for inference clusters,
since these will also hold sensitive model weights while being potentially much
smaller than training clusters.
●The President could appoint an “AI infrastructure czar” to coordinate policy to
accelerate the build-out of secure data centers. The steps described here will
require the use of a broad set of federal authorities across different agencies, as
well as coordination with private companies.
●The President could direct Commerce, State, and DOD to investigate the
prospect of setting up a version of the DOD’s Trusted Foundry Program for
advanced AI chips fabbed on leading nodes, with its mandate to include working
with international foundries like TSMC who have domestic footprints. The idea
would be to later be able to offer government subsidies/incentives for using
hardware fabbed in trusted AI foundries.●The DOE could establish a working group to identify points of contact on data
center security who can advise the designers, builders, and operators of
advanced AI clusters and critical AI clusters on vulnerabilities to nation-state
exfiltration, sabotage, and denial ops. This working group could operate under
the understanding that the United States may ultimately require that training runs
and deployments above a certain threshold be carried out within
security-compliant clusters. This working group could cover, for example:○Cyber, physical, RF/electronic warfare and personnel security.
6 


○ Passive data collection techniques. 
○ TEMPEST standards (may include sharing classified standards in whole 
or in part, if deemed necessary). 
 
● The President could instruct the relevant government entities, with technical 
support from NSA, CIA, CYBERCOM to take an active role in advanced AI data 
center and critical AI data center security: ○ By developing best practices and sharing tactics, techniques, and 
procedures to fortify advanced AI and critical AI clusters with select private 
sector partners. ○ By developing counterintelligence playbooks to address risk of nation 
state exfiltration and denial attacks against clusters and labs based on 
such practices as passive data collection and active monitoring of 
adversary efforts. ○ By coordinating these efforts closely with (classified) denial operations. 
 
● The President could instruct the NSA, CIA, and CYBERCOM to conduct 
pen-testing of current and future advanced AI clusters to map vulnerabilities to 
physical/cyber/personnel access points. The results of these exercises should be 
shared with labs/data centers if deemed supportive.  
Government support for AI hardware security 
 
● The President could instruct the NSA, CIA, CYBERCOM to identify points of 
contact on chip security (and hardware more broadly) who can advise on design 
for next-generation chips with a view to securing critical American national 
security IP. These agencies could create a working group to coordinate with chip 
design firms and fabs on chip security.  
● The President could instruct DOE National Laboratories, DARPA, IARPA to 
launch new research programs focused on radically accelerating security for AI 
hardware devices, including cluster-scale confidential computing, and making 
advanced AI hardware devices highly resilient to both invasive and non-invasive 
physical attacks from sophisticated actors (including possible tampering at every 
stage in the supply chain). This should be done in collaboration with the relevant 
private sector entities.  
● The President could instruct NIST to develop new, prescriptive security standards 
specifically for AI hardware devices, working in collaboration with industry 
7 


partners and agencies including NSA, CIA, and CYBERCOM. Unlike current 
standards such as FIPS 140-3 which provide general security objectives, these 
new standards should detail specific technical requirements, implementation 
measures, and verification methods required to protect AI hardware against 
sophisticated attackers. 
Indications and warnings 
Situational awareness for cloud computing 
●To learn who is using certain compute resources and for what purpose, the
President could have Commerce/BIS:
○Establish an advanced AI chips registry to ensure chips are delivered to
intended destinations and remain subject to monitoring. Combine with
either random inspections or location verification features to make this
actually useful for enforcement.○Implement reporting and evaluation obligations for AI clusters used to train
models above a training compute threshold (10^26 FLOP), or with total
power consumption over the “advanced AI cluster” threshold of 50MW.
(For context: the capex associated with a 50MW cluster is over a billion
dollars.)○Establish a know-your-customer (KYC) identification and screening for
access to high-volume compute usage to verify the identity and legitimacy
of users.○Require commitments from recipient countries and entities, such as
restrictions on sharing model weights, access to U.S. natsec red teamers,
other security standards.■The Chinese are doing deals with offshore non-U.S. data centers
for AI training cloud services, and essentially funding these facilities
(e.g. Bytedance in Malaysia).
○Require regular reporting and auditing of compute usage to identify
patterns of misuse and inform future policy decisions.
○Establish clear consequences for violating these commitments and
restrictions, such as the revocation of access to AI compute resources,
sanctions, and more.
8 


Identifying future requirements 
 
● The President could order the formation of a task force jointly with industry 
stakeholders to look into and produce ongoing/evolving 
recommendations/requirements for:  
○ Infrastructure for ultra-secure advanced AI and critical AI clusters. 
○ Defining public and classified standards for data center security. 
○ Identifying security considerations associated with the development of 
technologies allowing for distributed training of critical AI models in highly 
decentralized settings (e.g. DiLoCo, Intellect-1, Nous Research-type 
schemes). 
Data center security requirements 
 
● The Secretary of Commerce, in coordination with the Director of National 
Intelligence and the Secretary of Defense, could establish a task force within 30 
days to develop comprehensive data center security standards for facilities 
housing advanced AI clusters (>50MW) and critical AI clusters (>200MW). 
○ This task force could be required to develop distinct security frameworks 
for advanced AI and critical AI clusters, with critical AI facilities requiring 
security measures at least as rigorous as those required for Top 
Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information facilities, addressing 
physical security, cybersecurity, supply chain integrity, and access 
controls. 
 
● The U.S. Government could require companies building data center shells 
meeting the frontier AI power threshold (>200MW) to obtain BIS approval before 
breaking ground on a new build if they have received investment.  
 
 
9 


