Global Music Rights, LLC  
Response and Comments to the Development of An Artificial Intelligence Action Plan  
Global Music Rights, LLC is a performing rights organization (PRO) whose purpose is to represent 
top-tier songwriters and composers in the performing rights marketplace. We are committed to 
protecting the integrity of music rights and promoting the value of intellectual property on behalf 
of creators. We endorse the following guiding principles as the basis for establishment of 
legislative safeguards for human music creators in the age of generative artificial intelligence 
(“GenAI ”). 
1. G enAI has both the capacity to enhance human musical expression  and public enjoyment
of the musical arts, or if not properly governed  by law, to cause longstanding, crushing and
potentially existential damage to American musical creativity, commerce and culture.
2.There is a fundamental difference between  artificial intelligence (“AI”) tools and
technologies used by humans to assist in advancing human musical creativity , and GenAI
Systems designed to operate without meaningful human curation in using existing
copyrighted works as the basis for manufacturing derivatives.
3.In order to preserve American musical commerce and culture (which for over a century has
produced by far the world’s leading repertoire of musical works), human creators of such
works must be guaranteed by law  the unambiguous, exclusive , sui generis  rights (a) to
control  the use of their works i n all G enAI contexts related to ingestion , manipulation and
output, and (b) to be fairly compensated and credited for all such uses.
4. Such sui generis  rights should include  the authority to collectively negotiate licenses for
the use and payment of royalties for all copyrighted musical works inputted into so -called
GenAI “training” systems, the payment of royalties on all output generated by such
system s, and the continuation of liability for copyright plagiarism under existing laws.
5. Such sui generis  rights shall be deemed to have vested  at the time of creation of a musical
work solely in the work’s human creators, including human creators of works made for
hire, and such rights may only be conveyed in a written instrument executed by such human
author or his/her heirs after the effective date of the establishing legislation.  Such
conveyance shall thereafter be subject to termination pursuant to the terms set fort h in
section 203 of the US Copyright Act.
6.There should be legislative clarification that unlicensed ingestion , manipulation and output
of copyrighted works by  GenAI systems presumptively fall(s)  outside the boundaries of
the US fair use doctrine .  It should further be made clear that  the creative and remunerative
rights of human creator s established by law are to be favored over the economic and other
desires of those seeking to supplant human creators and their works by technological
means .
7.Any party making use of G enAI systems should be required by law to keep, maintain and
retain complete and accurate records of every copyrighted musical work utilized in the


training and/or ingestion process  dating back to day one of system  initiation , and full details 
of all subsequent output uses .    
8. In order to qualify as copyrightable, a musical work should have been created by a human
author(s) whose level of curation over the creative process , among other criteria, rises far
above the level of mere prompts requesting incorporation of artificially produced s tylistic
influences  (whether lyrical or musical).
9.Strict guidelines concerning the mandatory use and preservation of metadata should be
included in governing legislation.
10.It is a commercial and cultural imperative that legislative action in regard to the governance
of GenAI systems should be prompt, in recognition of the speed in which technological
advances are proceeding in the GenAI sector.
Signed, 
___________________  
Randy Grimmett 
Chief Executive Officer  
Global Music Rights, LLC  


