1 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
Hello,  
I am an artist named Grim -Castlaire who runs a small digital goods business from home called 
LGC -Art. The income generated from my sales is crucial as it is how I am able to afford food.  
Over the past three years, AI image generation and its increasingly widespread use across the 
social media platforms I use to advertise my business have greatly impacted my ability to make 
sales in a negative way. For example, my main platform for sales, " DeviantArt", has faced a 
massive exodus of "human artists" over the past couple years due to their frustration with AI 
image generation flooding the platform and obscuring their ability to make sales or even be seen. 
This has personally led to the engageme nt on my advertisements dropping by about 67%, which 
directly correlated to sales - in 2021, I made approximately 75 sales, and in 2022 (when the AI 
first began appearing en masse), 2023, and 2024, I averaged only about 25 sales each year.   
AI image generators such as Midjourney and Stable Diffusion do not only steal intellectual 
property from career artists, they lead to a total inundation of the marketplace by AI images that 
are public domain and cannot legally be sold, making it tangibly d ifficult for human artists to 
make our legal sales. I personally have had to resort to advertising my labor for as little as $1 per 
hour in desperate attempts to win back the attention of customers in order to be able to afford 
food.  


2 
As an artist who has experienced its many negative effects firsthand, I believe AI image 
generation will not only deskill artists, it will - and has already - completely disrupt the market in 
a way that needlessly cripples the livelihood s of countless people. We artists who sell our work 
online rely on the law to protect the integrity of our intellectual property in order for us to be able 
to contribute to society financially. For the betterment of everyone, the future of AI image 
generati on must involve image databases being ethically sourced and their outputted files 
including code that clearly identifies them as AI generations in order for them to be properly 
filtered apart from human -made artwork.  
Please and thank you for your consideration of the livelihood of all artists,  
Grim -Castlaire  


