National Science Foundation  
Networking and Information  Technology Research and Development 
(NITRD)  
National Coordination Office (NCO)  
Solicitation #  9088  
Federal AI Action Plan  
Response to Request for Information  
March 15, 2025  
Provided to:  
National Science Foundation  
Faisal D’Souza  Provided by:  
Guidehouse Inc.  
Scott McIntyre   
Chief Executive Officer  
1676 International Drive, Suite 800 
McLean, VA 22102  
Telephone 
TIN: 36-4094854  
SAM Unique Entity ID: N9NJK877QJK9  
CAGE Code: 1HLR9  
guidehouse.com  
2025 -148 This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be 
reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution.  


Guidehouse Inc., 1676 International Drive, McLean, VA 22102  
www.guidehouse.com  
March 15, 2025  
Faisal D’Souza  
National Science Foundation  
Subject: Response to Request for Information  for Federal AI Action Plan  
Dear Faisal D’Souza:  
The United States is sitting at the crossroads of economic and national security  and the 
opportunity to achieve AI dominance . Failure to achieve dominance is to cede a once in a 
generation opportunity to drive massive private and public sector productivity, efficiency, and 
innovation. With this imperative in mind, Guidehouse is enthusiastically providing our response 
to the Fed eral AI Action Plan Request for Information to the Networking and Information 
Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO). Our 
response reflects our full commitment to the Trump  Administration’s bold AI path , and our 
experienced and informed recommendation for a successful Federal AI Action Plan that achieves 
AI dominance.  
Guidehouse is one of the largest technology and business advisory firms in the world, but also 
one of the youngest. Founded only six years ago, we have achieved global scale, demonstrated 
client impact  across  commercial healthcare, energy, and financial services, as well as public 
sector clients , and the emergence of a recognizable brand that could never have happened a 
decade ago. This happened today because we launched the company to be a disruptor leveraging 
a fully cloud -based, AI -enabled environment. Our more than 18,000 employees collaborat e with 
innovative business leaders to achieve transformational changes that shape our client’s success.  
We appreciate the opportunity to present  our recommendations and ideas  for the development of 
a Federal  AI Action Plan . Our points of contact for this response are our contracts lead, Jill 
Raphael -Terry, at  or me at 
Sincerely,  
Scott McIntyre  Stuart Brown  
Guidehouse, Chief Executive Officer   Guidehouse, Global Technology Lead  


Federal AI Action Plan   
Response to Request for Information   March  15, 2025  
Guidehouse   Page i Table of Contents  
1.0 Introduction  ................................ ................................ ................................ ............................  1 
2.0 Our Approach and Recommendations  ................................ ................................ ................  1 
2.1 Charting America’s AI Future: Creating a Dynamic Policy Ecosystem for 
Technological Leadership and Public Value  ................................ ................................ .....1 
2.2 Powering America’s AI Frontier: Harnessing Data, Security, and Infrastructure ............. 5 
2.3 Sustaining and Accelerating America’s AI Dominance: Mobilizing Resources to 
Accelerating AI Development and Usage  ................................ ................................ ......... 9 
3.0 About Guidehouse  ................................ ................................ ................................ ............... 12 


Federal AI Action Plan   
Response to Request for Information  March 15, 2025  
Guidehouse  Page 1 1.0 Introduction  
The Federal Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan under the Trump Administration emerges at 
a pivotal moment, aiming to cement the United States’ dominance in a fiercely competitive 
global AI landscape. AI is reshaping economies, redefining national security, and revolutionizing 
public  and private sector service delivery. As the United States (U.S.) seeks to accelerate  its 
leadership in AI, the federal government must adopt a forward -looking approach that fosters 
innovation, enhances national competitive ness, and promotes  responsible AI development . With 
adversaries like China investing heavily in state -driven AI strategies , the U.S. faces an urgent 
challenge to outpace rivals through innovation, agility, and economic might. President Trump 
has underscored this plan as a cornerstone for enhancing America’s technological supremacy, 
prioritizing outcomes that fuel growth and secur ing national interests. Leveraging a deregulatory 
ethos and public -private dynamism, th e AI Action Plan  seeks to unleash AI’s potential by 
enabling and scaling innovation and adoption across critical domains.  
2.0 Our Approach and Recommendations  
America’s dominance in AI will require  more than identifying AI use cases and investing in the 
development  of AI solutions . Thus, Guidehouse took a holistic approach in recommending 
policy actions , and we have organized our recommended policy actions into the following broad, 
cross -cutting categories:  
•Charting America's AI Future: Creating a Dynamic Policy Ecosystem for Technological
Leadership and Public Value  – building a flexible, outcome -focused  AI policy framework
that drives U.S. technological leadership  while driving public trust, economic growth, and
responsible deployment .
•Powering America’s AI Frontier: Harnessing Data, Security, and Infrastructure  –
producing accessible, high -quality data and powerful infrastructure to unlock America’s AI
potential  while  protecting the security of U.S. AI solutions from adversaries while also
leveraging AI to enhance U.S. cybersecurity.
•Sustaining and Accelerating America’s AI Dominance : Mobilizing Resources to
Accelerating AI Development and Usage  – coordinat ing AI efforts, enhanc ing AI education,
upskill ing the workforce, and reform ing immigration policies to maintain AI leadership, drive
innovation, and prevent talent shortages and economic stratification .
Our recommended policy actions across these categories accelerate America ’s advancement in 
AI both in the short -term and make  it sustainable in the long-term while staying vigilant on 
America’s competitive place in the world.  
2.1 Charting America’s AI Future: Creating a Dynamic Policy Ecosystem for 
Technological Leadership and Public Value  
Current Environment : 
As the Administration contemplates its strategic approach to AI, the emerging  policy  landscape 
presents a critical opportunity to balance innovation, economic competitiveness, and responsible 
guardrails on security and transparency that protect the U.S.’s interests while accelerating its lead 
in innovation.  There is no comprehensive federal law specifically regulating AI. Instead, public 


Federal AI Action Plan   
Response to Request for Information  March 15, 2025  
Guidehouse  Page 2 
 and private organizations must navigate a complex web of federal  mandates , international (e.g., 
the EU's General Data Protection Regulation) and state -specific data privacy laws (e.g., 
California Consumer Privacy Act). These regulations, along with rules interpreted as applying to 
automated decision -making systems and sector -specific compliance requirements1, can add 
burdensome costs to AI development and adoption. This often entrenches incumbents who can 
bear the costs and stifles small business innovation.   
The Federal AI  Action Plan must articulate a dynamic framework that reduces regulatory 
friction , addressing the labyrinth  of regulatory hurdles,  compliance barriers, and risk -averse 
bureaucratic processes that currently restrict AI’s ability  to solve real-world problems . 
Simultaneously, it should elevate  the federal government’s strategic role in guiding AI 
development  through  public -private partnerships  and light-touch oversight focused on  outcomes  
that protect the public’s interests . This will enable faster translation of AI capabilities into 
practical applications both across industry  and the public sector . 
Recommended Action(s):  
• Create structured  collaboration mechanisms between  agencies and the industries they 
regulate:  Historically, when policymakers have prioritized enabling innovation over strict 
enforcement, technological progress has flourished . In the state of Michigan, a grant program  
was established to support small manufacturers in adopting AI technologies. The initiative has 
successfully financed over 130 projects, leading to increased productivity and competitiveness 
in the manufacturing sector2. The result was an increase in revenue of $174 million for $3 
million in grants awarded.  
Centralized National Artificial Intelligence Research Institutes  or a similar body , in 
collaboration with federal agencies, should lead these partnerships  federally , leveraging 
sector -specific expertise to drive targeted support. Direct funding or incentives  and access to 
computational resources and/or infrastructure support  for small business es will lower barriers 
to AI implementation in industries where it can provide the highest economic and soc ietal 
value. Agencies will have a clear mandate of enabling innovation  while  protecting the 
public’s interest with performance, economic, and workforce impact metrics to evaluate AI 
use cases in industries within their areas  of expertise . 
• Establish formal AI sandboxes between public and private commercial businesses, colleges 
and universities and relevant government agencies : Not all organizations can make the 
investment need ed to fund AI initiatives , have the requisite internal expertise, or have a 
strategic understanding of how to deploy AI . For this purpose,  agencies can create AI 
regulatory sandboxes —controlled testing  environments that enable rapid innovation  under 
smart  oversight. This approach shifts the regulatory paradigm from a traditionally restrictive 
 
 
1 https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/EEOC -CRT-FTC-CFPB -AI-Joint -
Statement%28final%29.pdf   
2 https://www.michiganbusiness.org/49d4f8/globalassets/documents/partners -toolbox -
training/industry -4.0-presentation -6-13-2023.pdf  


Federal AI Action Plan   
Response to Request for Information  March 15, 2025  
Guidehouse  Page 3 pre-approval model  to one that prioritizes innovation by permitting activities by default unless 
they are specifically  prohibited.  
For example , PrecisionFDA, a “secure, collaborative, high -performance compute  
environment ” with a sandbox to fine -tune generative AI models , allows for public 
participation in the advancement of the use of AI through  hackathons, where research 
performed in the sandbox helps establish technological feasibility  for all participants , 
lowering the cost of development3. Through centralized  sandboxes for each domain  or 
industry  (e.g., autonomous aviation systems, healthcare , defense technologies ), a standardized 
reference for training, tuning, and testing available across use cases to all participants helps 
rapidly advance the iterative research and development (R&D) process, breaking silos where 
progress may have been limited by  barriers the federal  government is uniquely equipped to 
break.   
Additionally, t he government should  partner with industry leaders , tapping into their expertise  
to co -design sandboxes  best suited for ideation and experimentation , bridging the gap between 
research and practical applications to ensure pilots reflect real -world use cases rather than 
overly academic exercises. Where regulatory arbitrage4 is a risk, the U.S. should coo perate 
with international partners for sandboxes across borders  to facilitate international 
collaboration and harmonize regulations across jurisdictions . As one example, the EU Metis 
Sandbox has successfully allowed data holders to test  datasets for interoperability5. 
Downstream for sandboxes , agencies  should establish regulatory test zones for successful 
pilots where companies can deploy AI solutions  under temporary  waivers before full 
regulatory approval  in heavily regulated  industries such as aviation, defense, or healthcare.  
•Streamline AI procurement and deployment for public services:  The benefits of
sandboxes flows both ways. By collaborating with private -sector innovators to test AI systems
under real-world conditions  or scenarios, agencies can leverage these insights for public sector
AI use cases  – accelerating service efficiency, fraud detection, and automated decision -
making , among others . As AI technologies are pre-tested, the government should  modernize
procurement rules to allow for faster approval of these AI -driven solutions , allowing agencies
to rapidly integrate proven AI tools from the private sector .
The federal government is  one of the largest purchasers of AI systems , spending an estimated
$3.3 billion on AI -related contracts  in 20226. Even so, t he Federal Acquisition Regulation
(FAR) and agency -specific procurement processes can take years to finalize AI contracts,
hindering agencies from keeping pace with innovation. Additionally, current procurement
policies often require vendors to have extensive past performance records, making it difficult
for startups and emerging AI service firms to compete.  To accelerate AI acquisition pipelines,
3 https://www.fda.gov/media/182815/download  
4 https://scholarship.law.upenn.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=3570&context=faculty_
scholarship  
5 https://pro.europeana.eu/post/how -aggregators -work -with-the-metis -sandbox -to-deliver -high-
quality -data 
6 https://ai.gov/wp -content/uploads/2023/11/Recommendations_AIs -Procurement -Challenge.pdf  


Federal AI Action Plan   
Response to Request for Information  March 15, 2025  
Guidehouse  Page 4 
 the federal government should establish pre -vetted AI contract vehicles that allow agencies to 
fast-track integration of proven AI tools , with a “Fast Track” program  that enables agencies to 
experiment and deploy AI solutions they have  already  tested  within their own or other 
agencies’ regulatory sandboxes.  These AI contract vehicles should include criteria  that allow  
startups and emerging firms to compete with entrenched players . Moreover , AI technology  
and service firms that contribute to value -driven R&D within government sandboxes or 
through public -private partnerships shoul d be given priority to further incentivize private -
sector participa tion. 
• Create cross -agency AI innovation networks  via “push -pull” mechanisms for AI 
adoption : To accelerate AI adoption across the federal government, agencies need a 
structured “push -pull” mechanism – one that pushes value -driven AI innovations into scalable 
deployment pipelines while simultaneously pulling agency -specific use cases into centralized 
R&D initiatives. Creating a hub-and-spoke model effectively allows for centralized AI R&D 
to efficiently spread across agencies while allowing agencies to pull solutions that match their 
specific needs. This can be established through a Federal  AI Cente r of Excellence  to serve as 
the primary research and development hub in partnership with national laboratories, academic 
institutions, and the sandboxes above. The benefits are multi -pronged: agencies would have 
AI toolkits and frameworks that they can adopt and customize for their specific needs, a 
shared services model establishes reusable components  and/or interoperability standards for 
common use cases across agencies such as procurement, budgeting, and HR functions ; and 
ensures that AI projects have de ployment pathways across multiple agencies, avoiding 
duplication of R&D efforts.  
To enable the greatest utility to the American taxpayer, agenc ies can submit  specific use cases  
within an allocated budget, promoting responsible value generation while considering  both 
effort and impact. Priority should be given to agencies through pooled funding mechanisms, 
where multiple agencies with overlapping needs can co -finance AI innovation . 
Outcome(s):  
The recommended actions represent a comprehensive approach to accelerating AI adoption 
within agencies and across the industries they regulate , fostering  an approach to innovation that 
balance s accelerating value -driven usage of AI and oversight that protects the public’s interests.  
These recommendations can produce the following outcomes:  
• Structured collaboration between agencies and industries : This approach is expected to 
transform the regulatory landscape, encouraging innovation and reducing compliance costs, 
leading to substantial economic gains while promoting  safety and efficacy.  Experiences from 
agencies that have already adopted AI technologies demonstrate that significant reductions in 
processing times and costs are achievable .7,8 
• Controlled environments for AI testing : Establishing these environments will accelerate the 
time-to-market for AI applications by allowing stakeholders to rigorously test and adopt 
innovations faster.  
 
 
7 Agency Boosts Efficiency with Automation and AWS Cloud | Guidehouse  
8 Machine Learning to Predict Government Fraud | Guidehouse  


Federal AI Action Plan   
Response to Request for Information  March 15, 2025  
Guidehouse  Page 5 •Modernized procurement processes : Streamlining these processes will enable rapid
integration of AI solutions into public sector operations, cutting costs and inefficiencies, and
improving service delivery and outcomes for citizens.
•Cross-agency collaboration and knowledge -sharing : Leveraging successful AI
implementations across agencies will reduce duplication of effort, speed up the adoption of
proven solutions, and create a powerful ecosystem, strengthening  America's competitive
position in the global AI landscape.
2.2 Powering America’s AI Frontier: Harnessing Data, Security , and 
Infrastructure  
Current Environment : 
The expansion of AI has led to the drastic and rapid demand for computing power.  AI systems  
are constrained by two critical factors: the availability of massive amounts of computational 
resources and access to high -quality data. The technology's effectiveness scales exponentially 
with data volume and computational resources , a reality that makes securing  these fundamental 
elements  crucial to maintaining the U.S.’ lead in AI innovation.  
The economics are stark: the cost of compute remains the primary barrier to AI advancement, 
where training a single large language model can easily approach millions of dollars. The AI 
Action Plan should prioritize scaling the nation’s  energy infrastructure, such as the 
announcement of the Stargate Project9, and driving down the cost of compute through 
investments in data centers, semiconductor production, quantum computing, and chip innovation.  
The U.S. must also break  down barriers to datasets across government agencies. Despite 
initiatives like the Federal Data Strategy and the OPEN Government Data Act, critical datasets 
remain siloed by inconsistent formats, inadequate  documentation, and lack of strategical 
planning of usabil ity and dissemination. AI systems cannot reach their full potential if they are 
starved of the high -quality data necessary for training and evaluation.  
AI dominance is pivotal to military strategy,  economic productivity, and scientific discovery. 
Competitor nations are making unprecedented investments in AI infrastructure. China is said to 
have “accounted for more than  half of all global investment  over the last five years”10 to become 
the global AI leader by 2030, focusing heavily on chip production and supercomputing facilities. 
Without urgent and large -scale investments in AI infrastructure and deliberate policy action to 
address security risks, the U.S. risks falling behind nations that are aggressively scaling their AI 
capabilities, both in research and deployment.  
History has shown that when the stakes are highest, the U.S.  succeeds by mobilizing its talent, 
industry, and government in a unified effort. During World War II, the Manhattan Project was 
not just about developing atomic weapons —it was about securing the future. The Apollo 
Program ensured not only that the U.S. wo n the space race , but that it set the foundation for 
9 The Stargate Project: A Manhattan Project for the AI era  
10 Made in China 2025: Xi Jinping's plan to turn China into the AI world leader - ABC News  


Federal AI Action Plan   
Response to Request for Information  March 15, 2025  
Guidehouse  Page 6 
 decades of aerospace and computational advancements. AI today is no different. It demands a 
nationally coordinated Action Plan  on the scale of these historic efforts.   
Recommended Action(s):  
• Make High -Quality AI-Ready Data Available:  The availability of high -quality d ata is 
fueling AI advancements. The AI Action Plan should empower the National AI Research 
Resource (NAIRR) or a similar body to not just make data available, but to prioritize data 
quality standards required for cutting -edge AI development free from bias or misinformation. 
Several government agencies already have initiatives that aim to release their data; however, 
these efforts are fractured , without consistency in access or usability. Even if an agency wishes 
to share its data, the presence of numerous regulations, unclear guidance, and occasionally 
conflicting directi ves may cause the agency to refrain from taking any risks . Datasets should 
have the critical context, structure, and reliability  necessary for AI model training and 
development. NAIRR, in partnership with similar governing bodies such as NIST and OSTP, 
should take the lead in national AI data standards  with sharable datasets across agencies , with 
tiered levels of access (depending on security level of data) both intra -agency and to the 
public . This includes creating policy guidelines , procedures, and develo ping data -sharing 
standards for  government agencies to make AI -ready data accessible . A dynamic policy 
framework is necessary to be responsive to AI advancements, preventing regulatory 
misalignment.  The U.S. , as part of its AI Action Plan, should invest in making AI -ready data a 
national strategic asset.  
• Address Current  Energy Bottlenecks and Proactively Prepare for Future Energy 
Challeng es: AI compute is energy  intensive , with the computational power needed t o power 
next-generation AI systems estimated to be measured in gigawatts11. Securing stable, cost -
effective power sources, such as nuclear, liquefied natural gas , renewables, and advanced grid 
technologies, is crucial for long -term AI leadership. Not only does this keep the U.S. at the 
forefront of innovation, but it also  powers the economy , with the Department of Energy 
estimating  that the U.S. will require 19,000 new electrical and electronics engineers annually,  
and an 11 -percent annual increase  in electricians12.  
The Administration should direct  the Department of Energy to modernize its current 
framework  surrounding energy infrastructure,  with an AI -specific roadmap. Opportunities 
exist for expedited licensing of AI -focused infrastructure, such as a specialized fast -track 
regulatory pathway  at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for data center and AI computing 
projects, production tax credits for AI -focused expansion that mirrors those used to stimulate 
wind and solar growth, and federal grants programs supporting researc h into energy storage 
technologies that can support AI’s variable energy demands.  
The current U.S. energy grid was not designed to accommodate the unprecedented power 
demands of A I computing. Upgrading the grid with AI -optimized , high -throughput energy 
systems is critical for  furthering innovation by  American innovators. The Action Plan should 
include investments in  modernized grid networks , including investments in AI -driven grid 
 
 
11 https://www.rand.org/pubs/research_reports/RRA3572 -1.html  
12 https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2024 -10/USEER%202024_COMPLETE_1002.pdf  


Federal AI Action Plan   
Response to Request for Information  March 15, 2025  
Guidehouse  Page 7 optimization . By creating a comprehensive plan to rapidly enhance and modernize the U.S. 
energy grid, the nation can enable equitable access for all companies, fostering a level playing 
field in AI advancements. This initiative will not only support the growth of the AI sector but 
also contribute to the overall resilience and efficiency of the national energy infrastructure.   
•Establish AI Resilience as a National Security Priority : As AI becomes a core pillar of
economic and defense competitiveness, energy resilience is a critical security concern. AI
compute infrastructure must be protected from energy shortages, cyber threats, and adversarial
interference. The Action Plan should address  the independence of the AI -energy supply chain
from  adversarial energy providers.
Similarly, The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency  (DARPA ), National Science
Foundation  and Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity should dramatically scale
investments in AI Assurance and counter -adversarial techniques, with a focus on preemptive
threat detection and neutralization . AI systems are already capable of outperforming humans
in certain tasks, with super -intelligent systems expected soon after . Strategic funding in AI
security can preemptively mitigate the risk of large -scale societal disruptions or turbulence.
The Administration should build a distributed network of laboratories capable of rapid
response testing and decommissioning  of potentially dangerous AI technologies.
Internationally, the U.S. should lead with binding standards for identifying and neutralizing
AI models with potential weaponization risks, with real -time monitoring systems to track
evasion.
National Security agencies should develop the capacity to test and evaluate models at a more
granular level, with tiers or classifications depending on their potential risk that would trigger
more stringent national security reviews. For those classified a s closest to “Artificial General
Intelligence” (AGI), the U.S. needs to monitor their development and prohibit the
development of fully autonomous AI systems capable of self -modification without human
oversight. Previous successful initiatives, such as DAR PA’s Media Forensics program, have
demonstrated the effectiveness of proactive investments in combating adversarial uses of AI,
such as deepfake technologies. Additionally, incentives like the Center for Human -
Compatible AI at UC Berkley highlight the impo rtance of aligning AGI systems with human
values and ethical norms, ensuring that advanced AI operates transparently and ethically. By
funding comprehensive R&D in these areas, the U.S. can outmaneuver malicious actors,
create new  defensive measures, and build robust testing frameworks  with wide applicability .
•Establish a U.S. led global AI development and governance framework: As AI
technologies transcend borders, nations are competing for leadership through varying
approaches to regulation, national security, and intellectual property policies. To effectively
promote American  values and those of like -minded nations, international cooperation and
harmonization are essential, ensuring that democratic values and economic freedoms remain
central to AI’s global trajectory.
The policy framework must be adaptive, recognizing that AI technologies will continue to
evolve in ways that are hard to  fully anticipate. Traditional regulatory frameworks struggle to
keep pace with AI's rapid evolution , with current international regulations fragmented and
potentially restrictive. In their “Economic Blueprint ,” OpenAI states that "There's an
estimated $175 billion sitting in global funds awaiting investment in AI projects, and if the
U.S. doesn't attract those funds, they will flow to China -backed projects —strengthening the


Federal AI Action Plan   
Response to Request for Information  March 15, 2025  
Guidehouse  Page 8 Chinese Communist Party's global influence"13. By collaborating with allies in the Group of 
Seven , Organisation for Economic Co -operation  and Development , and Quad nations  that 
share similar values and goals regarding AI governance , the U.S. can create a unified front 
that promotes transparent, secure, and economically beneficial strategic AI frameworks  (e.g., 
a tiered investment tax incentive structure, market access benefits, AI talent development or 
recruitment) such that entrepreneurs and technologists fund innovation and development of 
frontier models in the U.S. and not with adversaries.  
As of August 2024, China already has over 180 Large Language Models (LLMs) approved for 
general use in the public sector14. To prevent the domination of Chinese LLMs in the market, 
this global framework should have a goal of promoting the export of U.S. aligned - and U.S. -
built frontier models with allies to promote their use, helping U.S. allies’ local economies 
through U.S. -aligned AI technology.  
The U.S. should lead in developing AI development, governance , and safety standards as 
guidelines that protect fundamental rights while maintaining the rapid innovation cycle 
essential to technological leadership. This coordinated strategy would prevent individual 
states or foreign jurisdictions from creating a maze of conflicting requirements from 
fragment ing the AI market and create unnecessary barriers to entry for U.S. companies . 
•Strengthen export controls and technology transfer restrictions to reduce strategic
dependency on adversarial nations with potentially malicious motives:  Robust export
controls on AI -enabling technology are necessary to prevent intellectual property leakage and
slow development from adversarial nations and state actors. Claude, one of the current leaders
in frontier models globally, shared that their most recent model demonstrated the concerning
ability to support aspects of biological weapons development15. In the wrong hands, AI can
develop biological and nuclear weapons that pose a national security threat to the U.S. and the
globe. The U.S. should implement rigorous controls on the export of AI models and model
weights, training infrastructures, and spec ialized hardware. Governing  access to computational
resources is crucial for advanced AI development is another critical element of this
framework. Implementing strict licensing and access controls for high -performance computing
will enable authorities to monitor and regulate resource access.
Outcome(s):  
The recommended policy actions are aimed at  enhancing the availability of high -quality data, 
addressing current and future energy needs, and establishing a safe and secure AI infrastr ucture , 
positioning the U.S. as a global leader in AI innovation and security.  Implementing these 
recommendations will yield several outcomes:  
•Enhanced data quality and accessibility:  NAIRR, in collaboration with NIST and OSTP,
will create and maintain dynamic policy guidelines and data -sharing standards, enabling
13 https://cdn.openai.com/global -affairs/openai -us-economicblueprint -feb-2025 -edu-update.pdf  
14 https://technode.com/2024/08/13/china -now-has-over-180-llms-approved -for-general -use/ 
15 https://assets.anthropic.com/m/785e231869ea8b3b/original/claude -3-7-sonnet -system -
card.pdf  


Federal AI Action Plan   
Response to Request for Information  March 15, 2025  
Guidehouse  Page 9 
 structured, reliable, and readily available datasets for AI development.  Standardization  will 
eliminate the current fragmentation and inconsistency in data access and usability, providing 
researchers, startups, and established companies with the necessary resources to develop 
innovative  AI models . 
• Stable and cost -effective energy infrastructure:  Recognizing that AI compute is energy -
intensive, the Administration will modernize the current energy framework, creating an AI -
specific roadmap. By upgrading the grid with AI -optimized, high -throughput energy systems, 
the U.S. will support widespread AI innovation and provide  all companies, large and small, 
equitable access to the necessary computational resources.  
• National Security and Resilience: Establishing AI resilience as a national security priority 
will safeguard AI compute infrastructure from energy shortages, cyber threats, and adversarial 
interference. Building monitoring capabilities for frontier AI models mitigate s national 
security risks before they materialize into actual threats . By significantly increasing funding 
for AI Assurance and counter -adversarial AI techniques, the U.S. will develop robust defense 
mechanisms to safeguard AI energy access. Joint AI -energy security task forces w ill be 
established to protect critical AI infrastructure from both cyber and physical threats, ensuring 
the nation's AI capabilities are secure and reliable.  
• U.S.-led Global AI Leadership : A U.S. -led global AI development and governance approach 
will establish democratic nations as the primary architects of international AI standards. By 
convening like -minded partners and creating a compelling alternative to technological models  
from nations seeking to rival U.S. dominance , the U.S. can effectively prevent those  nations 
from capturing the regulatory narrative. U.S. leadership will ensure that AI development 
remains aligned with principles of transparency, individual rights, and economic freedom.  
• Strategic Resource Alignment: Reducing dependency internationally for AI technology from 
potentially hostile actors preserves the  U.S.’ s technological edge while preventing the 
proliferation of AI technologies that could compromise national security. This strategic 
approach to technology protection will strengthen the U.S. ’ diplomatic position, enabling the 
administration  to build deeper technological partnerships with allied nations while maintaining 
essential safeguards against potential threats.   
2.3 Sustaining and Accelerating America’s AI Dominance: Mobilizing 
Resources to Accelerating AI Development and Usage  
Current Environment:  
The release of ChatGPT -3.5 in late 2022 marked a turning point in technological history, 
demonstrating AI's unprecedented ability to generate human -like content across text, video, 
audio, images, and code. This breakthrough, followed by rapid advancements in generative AI, 
has fundamentally shifted the conversation about the future of work and workforce development.   
Sam Altman predicts that 2025 will be the year AI agents join the workforce16. The versatility of 
new AI capabilities presents both opportunities and challenges. While they demonstrate 
remarkable capabilities in automating certain tasks, they create new possibilities for augmenting 
human  productivity and creating entirely new categories of work. The range of AI possibilities is 
 
 
16 https://blog.samaltman.com/reflections  


Federal AI Action Plan   
Response to Request for Information  March 15, 2025  
Guidehouse  Page 10 
 exceedingly broad , requiring a proactive policy framework that harness AI’s potential while 
empowering  the American workforce.   
U.S. leadership in AI requires more than technological supremacy . It requires a national strategy 
to cultivate AI talent and create efficient channels for innovation and resource allocation between 
public and private sectors. Without these mechanisms, the nation  risks a shortage of skilled AI 
professionals that could stall innovation and weaken the nation’s  competitive edge, falling 
behind global competitors . 
Recommended Action(s):  
• Launch an AI Production Board : To realize the objectives of the AI Action Plan as outlined 
in Executive Order 14179 , the U.S. requires a coordinating entity akin to the War Production 
Board of World War II, reimagined as an AI Production Board (AIPB). This organization 
would serve as a public -private nexus, galvanizing industry, academia, and government to 
accelerate AI developme nt and deployment in a manner consistent with the administration’s 
deregulatory vision. The AIPB would not impose mandates but rat her act as a catalyst, 
channeling resources, aligning priorities, and incentivizing breakthroughs to outpace global 
competitors like China, where state -driven strategies threaten U.S. technological supremacy.  
The AIPB’s necessity stems from the fragmented nature of current AI efforts, which risk 
diluting America’s competitive edge absent strategic orchestration. By offering tax incentives, 
facilitating access to federal computing resources, and establishing vol untary benchmarks  – 
such as leading global AI patent filings by 20% by 2027 or deploying AI to save $50 billion in 
federal costs by 2030  – the AIPB could drive market -led innovation without stifling 
entrepreneurial freedom. Drawing from historical preceden t, the War Production Board 
transformed disparate industries into a unified war machine; similarly, an AIPB could harness 
America’s tech giants (e.g., NVIDIA, Microsoft), startups, and research institutions to 
prioritize AI applications critical to economi c competitiveness and national security, such as 
advanced manufacturing or cybersecurity.  
Moreover, the AIPB would address workforce and resource gaps by partnering with private 
entities to train millions in AI skills and pool anonymized federal datasets for developers, all 
while avoiding the bureaucratic overreach the administration seeks to e liminate. This lean, 
industry -empowered model positions  the U.S. as the “Arsenal of AI,” securing human 
flourishing and economic leadership as envisioned in the Executive Order, without sacrificing 
the agility of a free -market approach.  
• Accelerate AI Education and Training at Scale : The development of a National AI 
Education Initiative faces significant hurdles, including inadequate funding, a shortage of 
qualified educators, and unequal access to resources across educational levels. Integrating AI 
into K -12 STEM curricula demands substantial investment to train teac hers and update 
materials, yet budget constraints often limit progress.  
To address these  challenges , integrating AI into K -12 STEM requires federal funding to equip 
schools , train educators , and modernize  curricula . For higher education and vocational 
training, scaling AI degree pathways need  targeted investment  such as funding for AI research 
centers at universities  and grants for AI students . Simultaneously, the government should 
provide federal funding to increase the number of AI professors  to tackle the faculty shortage  


Federal AI Action Plan   
Response to Request for Information  March 15, 2025  
Guidehouse  Page 11 to meet demands for AI skills . These concrete steps aim to build a robust AI education 
ecosystem.  
•Upskill the Existing Workforce for AI : Implementing a national AI education and
workforce transition initiative faces significant challenges, including funding shortages, a lack
of trained educators, and the rapid pace of AI -driven job displacement. The International
Monetary Fund estimates that almost 40% of jobs will be impacted by AI, with up to 60% in
advanced economies like the U.S.17, risking mass unemployment in sectors like manufacturing
without intervention. A 2020 House Budget Committee report warned, “AI -enabled
automation could contribute to further wage inequality”18 if workers aren’t reskilled . To
counter displacement, the Federal government should provide tax incentives for corporations
who develop AI reskilling programs in industries where many jobs could change due to
automation  and agentic AI capabilities .
A study by Georgetown’s Center for Security and Emerging Technology indicates that the
rapid growth in computer science enrollments has not been matched by a similar  increase in
the number of computer science instructors19. This imbalance may pose a challenge to
expanding the pool of AI developers.  Drawing upon South Korea’s AI curriculum success20,
fast-track AI certifications could train thousands of  workers yearly. In addition, the Federal
government should consider incentives to support public -private  AI apprenticeship programs
providing hands -on AI experience. These actions  aim to turn AI’s disruption into opportunity.
•Reform High -Skilled Immigration Pathways for AI Talent : Retaining top AI talent in the
U.S. faces challenges of global competition and slow regulatory  processes. A 2023 National
Foundation for American Policy report notes that 7 0% of graduate students in fields related to
AI at U.S. colleges and universities are international21, yet many leave due to visa backlogs.
The U.S. risks losing its competitive edge in AI to other nations as countries like Canada offer
faster pathways  for AI-focused graduate students currently at U.S. colleges and unive rsities to
be able to work after completing their studies .
To address this, the U.S. should e xpand an AI -specific visa program , modeled on the U.K.’s
system but designed for U.S. national security needs. This could fast -track the recruitment of
AI experts into the country ’s resource pool  each year. Targeting professionals currently
enrolled in U.S. colleges and universities with AI patents or advanced degrees, this visa would
quickly bolster the U.S. workforce.  In addition, the federal government should streamline  the
visa processes for AI experts to address a siza ble case backlog recently reported by the
17 https://www.imf.org/en/Blogs/Articles/2024/01/14/ai -will-transform -the-global -economy -lets-
make -sure-it-benefits -humanity   
18 Machines, Artificial Intelligence, & the Workforce: Recovering & Readying Our Economy for 
the Future | House Budget Committee Democrats  
19 AI Faculty Shortages | Center for Security and Emerging Technology  
20 A Guide To South Korea's Revolutionary AI Education: Shaping Tomorrow's Tech Leaders  
21 AI-AND -IMMIGRANTS.NFAP -Policy -Brief.2023.pdf  


Federal AI Action Plan   
Response to Request for Information  March 15, 2025  
Guidehouse  Page 12 
 USCIS22. This will m ake it easier for top AI graduate students and researchers to gain 
permanent residency in the U.S.  after completing their education.  
Outcome(s):  
AI leadership will be determined by who has the talent and capacity to execute at scale.  The 
recommended policy actions are aimed at building a nd utilizing  a highly skilled workforce that 
can invent, govern, and apply AI technologies across the entire economy. By incentivizing  
breakthroughs through public -private partnerships , investing  in education, and attracting  the top 
AI talent  globally , the Administration  can allow  both workers and the nation thrive in an era of 
AI transformation.  Implementing these recommendations will yield several outcomes:  
• Rapid Channeling of Resources : Coordinating  industry , academia, and government efforts, 
offering tax incentives, and facilitating access to resources  through a new AI Production 
Board  drives innovation and economic leadership while avoiding excessive regulation.  
• Stronger Pipeline of Domestic AI Talent : Expanding AI education develops  the next 
generation of workers who are  equipped to weave AI into everyday life and compete at the 
highest level.  
• Reduced AI Talent Shortages Across Industries : By upskilling the existing workforce, 
filling AI job openings will become easier and drive widespread AI -powered innovation in 
sectors beyond just tech.  
• Increased AI Workforce Participation Across Economic Demographics:  Structured AI 
apprenticeships and technical training programs provide  equitable workforce access  to AI 
capabilities , preventing AI -driven economic stratification.  
• A Stronger Retention of Foreign AI Talent : Select AI -specific i mmigration reforms provide 
an additional source for  top AI talent  produced by U.S. colleges and universities  to stay within 
the country, rather than fueling foreign AI advancements.  
3.0 About Guidehouse   
  
 
 
Guidehouse is an innovative, private equity backed start up that has quickly disrupted our 
industry with different business, incentive, and solutioning models. Guidehouse is an AI 
integrator, AI developer, AI trainer, AI investor, and importantly an aggressive AI user. Based in 
the U.S., Guidehouse employees more than  18,000 professionals, and deliver s end-to-end AI 
solutions —spanning data management, intelligent automation, advanced analytics, digital 
modernization, and infrastructure optimization —that empower commercial companies and 
federal agencies to lead in a deregulated, market -driven AI landscape.  
Guidehouse is free from the obvious conflicts associated with an industrial base of longstanding 
federal contractors and consultants who built and sustain the legacy technology architecture of 
the federal government that is so expensive and outdated given commercial alternatives. Having 
guided Fortune 500 clients through complex transformations, Guidehouse offers the strategic 
 
 
22 According to  a 2023 report, the USCIS has a net backlog of 4.3 mil lion: Completing an 
Unprecedented 10 Million Immigration Cases in Fiscal Year 2023, USCIS Reduced Its Backlog 
for the First Time in Over a Decade | USCIS   


Federal AI Action Plan   
Response to Request for Information  March 15, 2025  
Guidehouse  Page 13 
 insight and expertise  to align federal priorities —economic competitiveness, national security, 
and workforce readiness —with private -sector dynamism.  
We want to leverage our commercial and public sector AI capabilities and investment to 
collaborate with the U.S. Government in crafting and executing the Federal AI Action Plan under 
President Trump’s Executive Order 14179, bringing additional relevant experience in  
government policy, economic strategy  and impact analysis , energy transformation, and cutting -
edge technology innovation. We endeavor to  support the Administration’s vision of American AI 
dominance, free from bureaucratic overreach, to accelerate  innovation and counter foreign state -
led advances. We are fully committed to the Trump Administration’s bold AI path, excited to 
drive the federal government’s journey toward a future where U.S. leadership in AI enables  
human flourishing and global preeminence.  
 
.


Federal AI Action Plan   
Response to Request for Information  March 15, 2025  
Guidehouse  Page 14 


