3/13/2025  via FDMS  
Kacy Hardin,  
All generative AI datasets are trained on data used without consent of the creator. That is only 
acceptable with public domain works, but AI scrapes everything it can find online. The only way 
generative AI can be used ethically is by using it on an isolated dataset of legally acquired work. AI is being ham- fistedly forced into everything but every company that tries to use it to replace 
hiring a graphic designer or other type of artist finds themselves with visibly garbage work that devalues their company, or ends up paying more to get someone to modify the result into something usable. It's touted as a way to save money but has the opposite effect either by turning away potential customers or making the company pay more anyway. The computing power required for generative AI servers is immense, on par with Bitcoin/NFTs. The long term survival of the country requires smarter energy use choices, not an accelerated demise so Google can tell us that glue is the best way to help cheese stick to a pizza better because AI skimmed that off a popular Reddit post. The rampant use of generative AI has already hurt people. It has been used to generate false images of real people- sometimes pornographic images. People have purchased AI generated books off Amazon that improperly identify edible plants and mushrooms and have gotten sick as a result. It has resulted in rising unemployment numbers as companies try to save a few bucks by letting go of their artists to use genAI instead. Schools not discouraging or outright enco uraging use of ChatGPT and other AI text generation are seeing a decline in students 
capable of thinking critically and thinking for themselves. These are only the things that have made the news or that I've witnessed personally. This is the OPPOSITE of human flourishing. AI has been forced into everyone's faces, and those who are less technologically savvy would reasonably think that's because it's good and reliable. It can't even reliably do math correctly, I would not trust it to answer a potential medic al question. That could get someone killed. For all 
we know it already has. The next person to fall victim to its misinformation could be someone you care about. I am an artist and I work in the Museum field. Education, the arts, and basic human rights are areas of value to me. Please do not allow the president to drive the country further into the ground by going all in on AI. Everything he and Musk do is anti- American, anti -
education, anti-human rights, and this is yet another instance of it. As a side comment, my comments are purely about generative AI. AI used to automate repetitive digital processes or analyze medical imaging is the good and useful sort of AI. It should assist, not replace! 
 


