1 March  15, 2025  
Faisal D’Souza  
Office of Science Technology Policy  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Thank you for the opportunity to engage on this critical issue. Artificial intelligence  (AI) is not only an 
emerging technology that will clearly impact our day -to-day lives but play a critical role in 
protecting our national security  and promote economic competitiveness . Whichever  country 
dominate s AI will have significant military and economic advantages. While the United States is 
currently the leader in AI, as President Trump outlined in his January 23rd Executive Order (EO), we 
must act decisively to retain global leadership in this critical field.1 
Rapid expansion of  AI and data centers will require dramatically more electricity to meet growing 
demand. SemiAnalyis  used property records, power consumption data, and satellite imagery 
analysis to track U.S. data center developments and  conclude d that the amount of electricity 
needed to power  U.S. data centers for AI will grow from 3 GW in 2023 to over 56 GW by 20282.  To 
ensure we can dominate the AI of the future, we must have the necessary power  to utilize it at the 
necessary scale while not increasing  energy prices. If energy demands are not met, AI development 
could shift overseas. Energy abundance is  essential to  AI dominance,  and we must take the 
necessary actions on energy policy  to support it . 
This dramatic increase in power  demand  cannot be met with any single source . In fact, we must 
ensure we have diversified energy production that reduces our reliance on any single feedstock. 
While the Trump administration has begun  laying out its vision for achieving American Energy 
Dominance, one critical source  must be in all energy planning : fusion energy.  
At Helion Energy we are poised  to make history  during this administration with our seventh fusion 
prototype, Polaris, which will produce electricity from fusion for the first time  in history . Following 
Polaris, we will construct the world’s first commercial fusion power plant, backed by a power 
purchase agreement with Microsoft.3 We also have a customer agreement with Nucor to develop a 
500 -Megawatt plant to power one of their steel mills.4 These developments signal that fusion
energy is no longer a distant vision —it is becoming a reality.  This work is proceeding on schedule
and in March 2025, we announced  our intention to acquire permits for our desired  location of our
first power plant  in Washington state.
1 Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence  (January 23, 2025)  
2 Special Competitive Studies Project, How Bad Will the AI Power Crunch Be?  (September 5, 2024 )  
3 Helion Energy, Inc., Announcing Helion’s Fusion Power Purchase Agreement with Microsoft  (May 10, 2023).  
4 Nucor Corporation, Nucor and Helion to Develop Historic 500 MW Fusion Power Plant  (September 27, 2023).  


2 Fusion energy isn’t just a scientific milestone; it’s a transformative force that can redefine the 
global energy landscape, fuel economic growth, and secure America’s energy independence. We 
aren’t the only country to recognize the potential of fusion energy. China is racing to dominate 
fusion, pouring billions into R&D as part of their broader strategy for global influence in advanced 
technologies and critical energy supply chains. The stakes couldn’t be higher . 
As global electricity demand rapidly rises, fusion energy presents an unprecedented opportunity to 
meet this growth with clean, affordable, reliable power. In the U.S. alone, electricity demand is 
projected to increase by nearly 30% by 2050, driven by electrification in transportation, industrial 
sectors, and the digital economy.5 And yet this is likely an underestimate given recent advances in 
AI and efforts  to onshore critical industries.6 Globally, electricity consumption is expected to more 
than double during the same period, especially as developing nations industrialize and urbanize at 
a rapid pace. This surge in demand underscores the urgency of scaling up energy production, and 
fusion is poised to play a transformative role.  
While the U.S. stands at the forefront of fusion innovation, we must recognize that global 
competition, particularly from China, is accelerating rapidly. China has made fusion a cornerstone 
of its national innovation strategy, aggressively investing in res earch, development, and 
manufacturing capabilities. This effort is not just aimed at civilian energy solutions but also has 
broader implications tied to its military -civilian fusion policy, where technological advancements in 
the civilian sector directly s upport military applications.  
The United States must win the contest to dominating AI and controlling this emerging, and  critical, 
industry. AI is poised to revolutionize numerous industries, creating new markets and driving 
significant economic growth. However, achieving energy abundance is a necessary condition for 
achieving AI dominance.  
China is betting big on fusion. They are pouring billions into research and development, not just to 
lead in energy, but to power their aspirations for global dominance in AI, advanced manufacturing, 
and military innovation. As their grip on rare earth minerals tightens and their influence over critical 
energy supply chains grows, fusion is their endgame —a way to leapfrog the U.S. and redefine the 
global balance of power.  
A key plank in the Chinese strategy to not only dominate fusion deployment, but to actively 
undermine the American fusion industry, is to exert control over the fusion energy supply chain. As 
we saw happen repeatedly over previous decades, they are positio ning themselves to dominate the 
commercialization of American ingenuity and reap the benefits.  
We cannot afford to fall into this same trap. We must lead. 
5 Statista, Projected Electricity Use in the U.S. 2022 -2050  (June 28, 2024)  
6 Washington Post, Amid Explosive Demand, America is Running out of Power  (March 7, 2024)  


3 Only America has the entrepreneurial spirit, scientific talent, and industrial base to turn fusion from 
a scientific breakthrough into a commercial reality. President  Trump  has the chance to deliver on 
this promise.   
For America to reach its full fusion potential, the Trump administration should:  
1. Establish a National Fusion Lead : Appoint someone with direct access to the Secretaries
of the Department of Energy, Department of Commerce, and Department of Defense to
encourage concrete actions toward fusion energy commercialization and deployment.
2. Declare Fusion a National Security Priority : as part of the  national security strategy,
launch a presidential task force to win the race on fusion  by focusing on advancing the
development and deployment of  commercia l fusion energy . The task force would  cut
through red tape, streamline environmental permitting, and create a clear regulatory
framework for fusion.
3. Public -Private Partnerships:  Engage with companies like Helion to expedite the
commercialization of fusion. By leveraging the ingenuity of American industry, we can
ensure that not only will the first commercial fusion plant be built in America  and not in
Beijing or Shanghai  - with the right policies in place, we will also ensure we can rapidly
deploy at scale such that Americans reap the benefits of a robust fusion economy.
4. Secure Fusion Supply Chains:  Direct the Department of Commerce , and other relevant
agenc ies, to activate existing programs to scale manufacturing of critical components,
such as high -voltage capacitors and superconducting materials. This will reduce reliance
on foreign imports and  geopolitical competitors all while  creat ing an American supply chain
immune to external pressures.
The U.S. stands at a crossroads. We're on the brink of unlocking fusion energy, but only if the public 
and private sectors work together. The next few years will decide if America leads the world in 
fusion—or gets left behind. With bold action on supply ch ains and smart regulatory frameworks, 
fusion can revolutionize our energy future and cement U.S. leadership in the global energy race . 
Thank you for the opportunity to participate in this important process. We hope to be a resource to 
you as we meet the dual goals of energy abundance and AI dominance.  
Sincerely,  
Jackie Siebens  
Director  of Public Affairs  
Helion  


