March 1 4, 2025  
Mr. Kirk Dohne  
Acting Director, National Coordination Office  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development Program  (NITRD)  
White House Office of Science and Technology Policy  
Washington DC , 20024  
Dear Acting Director Dohne : 
On behalf of the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS), we 
are pleased to provide public comments on Networking and Information Technology 
Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO)  and the  
National Science Foundation  Request for Information on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan . 
HIMSS is a global advisor and thought leader and member -based society committed to 
reforming the global health ecosystem through the power of information and 
technology. As a mission -driven non -profit, HIMSS offers a unique depth and breadth of 
expertise i n health innovation, public policy, workforce development, research, and 
analytics to advise global leaders, developers, end users, patients,  and influencers on 
best practices in health information and technology driven by health equity. Through 
our innova tion engine, HIMSS delivers key insights, education and engaging events to 
healthcare providers, governments, and market suppliers, ensuring they have the right 
information at the point of decision. HIMSS serves the global health information and 
technology  communities with focused operations across North America, Europe, the 
United Kingdom, the Middle East, and Asia Pacific. Our members include more than 
127,000 individuals, 480 provider organizations, 470 non -profit partners, and 650 health 
services organi zations. Our global headquarters is in Rotterdam, The Netherlands and 
our Americas headquarters is in Chicago, Illinois.   
To accelerate digital health transformation, we must foster seamless, secure,  
ubiquitous, and systemwide data access and interoperable health information  
exchange. Interoperable data exchange ensures the right people have the right  
access to the right health information in a usable format at the right time to deliver  
optimal care. Health information and technology serve as the catalyst for  
transforming the health ecosystem, modernizing care delivery, driving health  
innovation,  lowering costs, improving efficiency,  and enabling health research.  
Artificial intelligence  (AI) drives numerous applications that  offer the potential to 
improve patient outcomes , accelerate  early detection of disease , and enhance point 
of care and administrative efficiency. AI also has the potential to promote embedded 
biases and inaccuracies in our healthcare data. AI tools are positioned to drive 
innovation and digital transformation. Policies and regulatory framewor ks should find a 
balance that promotes and accelerates the responsible deployment and use of safe 
and trusted AI demonstrated to benef it stakeholders in the health and human services 
sector while ensuring that AI is continually monitored and revalidated following 
deployment in the field.  


2 Specifically, the OSTP  AI Action Plan should consider the following principles for AI 
deployed and utilized in the health and human services sector. Many of these principles 
are reflected in HIMSS Global Artificial Intelligence Policy Principles . 
•The leadership group responsible for the development of the AI Action Plan
should include representation of the healthcare and digital health sector in the
United States.
•Policy frameworks for the use of AI in the health and human services sector
should have guardrails which consider the unique use cases and risks associated
with patient safety.
•OSTP should adopt a risk -based regulatory approach that weighs the different
intended uses, risk levels,  types (generative or adaptive)  and potential impacts
on patient s of AI  when establishing requirements impacting the development
and monitoring post -deployment of AI.
•Policy frameworks  should  focus on the development, initial deployment , and the
evolution of AI once the tools have been deployed and evolve as they ingest
data.
•For the development of AI used in the health and human services sector, p olicy
frameworks should ensure a ppropriate feasibility and safety testing during the
development cycle  of AI tools and models  to ensure the AI will produce
comparable and consistent results against intended outcomes in all appropriate
settings . The  development  cycle  processes should monitor and test to ensure
that the model isn’t perpetuating  harmful biases.
•Following the development of AI for use in the health and human services sector,
policy frameworks  should require appropriate explainability of AI tools on an
ongoing basis by providing clinicians with sufficient and ongoing evidence of fair
and robust performance  so they can make informed decisions about adopting
AI in their setting of care . HIMSS encourages OSTP to convene clinician leaders to
determine what information is needed for explainability by providers to make
informed decisions for adopting and user AI tools. What will be required for
“explainability” will adjust as health syst ems increase t he sophistication of their
understanding of AI performance as time moves forward  and the government
framework should have the flexibility to evolve as the knowledge base of end-
users grows.
•Following the implementation of AI in hospitals, provider practices, and other
care settings, policy frameworks should  require thoughtful action and monitoring
by all parties, from market suppliers to hospitals and providers  to ensure AI
solutions are gen erating appropriate outputs that do not put patients at risk .


3 Policy should require the use of technologies including AI tools to evaluate and 
monitor  the performance of the AI model and provide feedback to the 
developers (foundation model developers and developers/tools that 
incorporate the foundational model) and end -users of the AI tool  to indicate if 
the AI outputs are drifting from the intended outputs . 
Unless an organization has a clear analytics strategy , as required for a Stage 7 
designation on HIMSS Analytics Maturity Adoption Model  and a team with the 
competencies to assess safety, accuracy, and appropriate use of  AI, then the 
organization should carefully consider not adopting technologies they cannot 
safely manage . HIMSS acknowledges that the workforce in many healthcare 
organization s does not have these competencies at the present time. HIMSS 
recommends the Administration invest in appropriate work force training  to 
ensure that healthcare organizations have the competencies to safely  manage 
and monitor emerging AI tools  and models to improve efficiency and drive 
better care outcomes.  
•The framework should require that AI data governance and stewardship models
are developed and regularly updated to promote the authorized use and
disclosure of data. The framework should account for use case fidelity and
model development, monitoring, and operations.  Data governance and
stewardship models should incorporate guidelines for appropriate  data -sharing
nation -wide and  consider the varying data protection laws across countries.   For
healthcare, HIMSS believes the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
Act (HIPAA)  of 1996,  and subsequent updates  cover  privacy , disclosure, and
consent standards that should be applied to  evolving AI technologies .
Accompanying standards should support the capacity of individuals to restrict
the sharing of personal confidential information.
•The framework should facilitate the consensus -based development and
harmonization of standards to ensure AI technologies can appropriately
exchange data and learning across different healthcare systems using different
technologies and be safely integrated the exchanged information into e xisting
clinician workflows. Standards should be promulgated through the regulatory
process to ensure consistent adoption by software developers .
•The framework should require that  AI data governance and stewardship models
are developed and regularly updated to promote the authorized use and
disclosure of data . The framework should account for use case fidelity and
model development, monitoring, and operations.  Data governance and
stewardship models should  incorporate guidelines for national data -sharing and
consider the varying data  protection laws across countries.


4 •The framework  should support adding the skillsets and knowledge  needed for a
clinical and IT support workforce focused on testing, monitoring, and  revalidating
AI following deployment in the field.
•AI that is utilized to determine  access  to healthcare benefits  should not restrict
access based on protected characteristics, including  but not limited to :
opeople with limited English proficiency
opeople of ethnic, cultural, racial, or religious minorities
opeople with disabilities
opeople who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, or other diverse sexual
orientations
opeople who identify as transgender and other diverse gender
identities
opeople living in rural communities
opeople otherwise adversely affected by persistent poverty or
inequality
As OSTP considers how the Federal government can promote the innovation and safe 
use of AI,  we strongly encourage  the inclusion of these healthcare sector -specific 
recommendations . Please feel free to contact Jonathan French, Senior Director of 
Public Policy and Content Development, at  with questions 
or to request more information.  
Sincerely,  
Thomas M. Leary, FHIMSS  
Senior Vice President and Head of Government Relations  


