March 14, 2025  
Faisal D’Souza  
Technical Coordinator  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination 
Office (NCO), National Science Foundation  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Re: Request for Info rmation  (RFI)  on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
(“Plan”) 
Submitted electronically to: 
Dear Technical Coordinator D’Souza : 
Health Level Seven (HL7) Internat ional welcomes the opportunity to provide feedback on the 
Development of an AI Action Plan  RFI . This letter  includes pers pectives from our leadership and Policy 
Advisory Committee.  
HL7 encourages NITRD NCO to actively engage our organization as the AI Ac tion Plan  is constructed 
and deployed. HL7 is a rich resource and has an innovative, dedicated AI Taskforce and Initiative as 
described below. Importantly also, we were early policy trailblazers in AI with public -private sector policy 
convenings, such as o ur May 2019 HL7 policy conference on healthcare interoperability, genomics and 
AI.   
Regarding  the highest priority policy actions that should be in the new AI Action Plan, HL7 recommends 
that the federal government should adopt voluntary consensus health care standards broadly in regulatory 
and subregulatory policies that govern  the use of AI.  This includes  standards for creating, deploying, 
operating, measuring, reporting, and ensuring the needed transparency, safety, and privacy in use of AI.  
Adopting voluntary consensus standards that comply with the World Trade Organization’s Agreement 
on Technical Barriers to Trade, such as American National Standards Institute (ANSI) -accredited 
American  National Standards, is the optimal  way for regulation to supp ort the competitiveness of United 
States innovation in AI.  HL7 emphasizes that the best organization to take on an AI standards effort 
should be a broad based and ANSI -accredited one.  HL7 notes that the need for AI transparency is 
paramount . 
HL7 also supp orts federal p reempt ion of conflicting state laws to prevent undue burden and ensure 
consistent application and regulation of AI . When states impose conflicting standards, measures, and 
other  requirements , then significant burdens can prevent achieving the  potential benefits of AI.  
More about HL7 and its  AI Initiative , Work Groups, Accelerators and Other Efforts  
HL7 is the global authority on healthcare interoperability and a critical leader and driver in the standards arena. As such, we stand ready to su pport NITRD NCO in better understanding the promises, 
complexities and challenges at the crossroads of standards, interoperability, policy and AI.   


Specific to the development of an AI Action Plan, we highlight the following expert HL7 resources: 
HL7 AI Taskforce  
HL7 has a dedicated AI Initiative and Taskforce. Our organization  is working on AI in collaboration with 
multiple partners -- in both the public and private sectors -- to develop standards, Implementation 
Guides (IGs) and related policies to ensu re the reliability, safety and security of AI.  
HL7 standards serve as the essential digital foundation that enables innovative companies and startups to 
securely access, analyze, and derive insights from healthcare data, accelerating the development of AI -
powered solutions that can dramatically improve patient outcomes while reducing costs across the U.S. 
healthcare system.  By supporting HL7 through the NITRD program, the federal government can unlock 
unprecede nted market -driven innovation through  ensuring standardized, interoperable health data 
exchange that allows new entrants and established players to compete based on the value they deliver 
rather than being blocked by proprietary data silos. This strategic i nvestment in HL7 standards would 
catalyze a new wave of American healthcare entrepreneurship, enabling data -driven and AI -backed 
solutions to flourish in a competitive marketplace that rewards improved health outcomes, ultimately 
making healthcare more accessible, efficient, and effective for all Ame ricans.  
HL7 Work Groups, Accelerators and Other Efforts   
HL7 Work Groups, FHIR Accelerators and special initiatives are conducting cutting -edge healthcare, 
interoperability and standards work very relevant to the development of an AI Action Plan . HL7 
executive and policy leaders can facilitate structured, focused dialogue. We urge NITRD NCO to seek 
out the practical and field -leading expertise of these HL7 groups.  A full HL7 Work Group listing and 
information on our Policy Advisory Committee can be accessed at: 
http://www.hl7.org/Special/committees/index.cfm?ref=nav  
https://confluence.hl7.org/spaces/PAC/pages/76159333/Policy+Advisory+Committee+Home  
Should yo u have any questions about our attached comments, please contact Charles Jaffe, MD, PhD, 
Chief Executive Officer of Health Level Seven International at  or  We 
look forward to continuing this discussion  and offer our assistance to you on this topic that is critical to 
the future of our nation’s  healthcare.  
       Sincerely, 
      Charles Jaffe, MD, PhD    Julia Skapik, MD, MPH  
      Chief Executive Officer             Board of Directors, Chair  
      HL 7 International   HL7 International  




