Fr: Homer City Redevelopment LLC 
To: Whi te House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP)  
c/o Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) 
National Coordination Office (NCO), National Science Foundation  
Re: Re quest for Information in the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
This doc ument is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
To Whom It May Concern, 
Homer C ity Redevelopment LLC (“Homer City”) strongly supports the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy’s ( “OSTP” ) focus on policy actions required to sustain and enhance  US global 
leadership in artificial intelligence (“ AI”) innovation. Given the urgent need to address 
skyrocketing electricity demand due to AI and advanced computing, we encourage the 
Administration to  leverag e all tools that can  increase  generation growth and urge the 
Administration to incorporate our recommendation in the AI Action Plan . Our recommendation is 
simple  – support federal financing tools that will accelerate the needed investments in energy 
infrastructure, including the Department of Energy’s (“ DOE ”) Loan Programs Office (“ LPO ”). 
Data centers are critical to powering emerging  AI technologies. Data center deployment is a 
significant factor in the current surge of electricity demand in the US. In particular, new AI 
applications such as generative models use more energy than the search engine, streaming, and 
communications applica tions that drove data center growth over the past two decades.1 In total, 
data centers could consume up to 9% of US electricity generation annually by 2030, up from just 4% in 2023. 
New hy perscale data center facilities that use  100-1,000 MW – roughly equivalent to the electrical 
load from 80,000 to 800,000 homes – are stretching the capacity of local grids to generate and 
deliver power at scale. Connection lead times of one to three years, demands for highly reliable power, and requests for power from new, cleaner generation sources can create local and regional electric supply challenges. Addressing these challenges will ensure we can fully unlock the potential AI holds to promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security.  
Homer  City, based in western Pennsylvania, is wholly dedicated to converting a recently 
decommissioned power plant into a diverse energy campus. Homer City previously operated a 1.9 GW coal -fired power plant on more than 5,000 acres in Indiana County, Pennsylvania. The aging 
power plant was permanently decommissioned in 2023, and Homer City is now redeveloping it into a 3,600 -acre energy producti on hub. The redevelopment plan includes  4.5 GW of natural gas -
fired power generation and supporting transmission infrastructure to meet the long- term energy 
needs of hyperscale data centers.  
1 EPRI, Powering Intelligence: Analyzing Artificial Intelligence and Data Center Energy Consumption, 2024.  


Fede ral support for projects that accelerate the deployment of flexible, firm electricity generation 
will be critical to meet data center power needs. Specifically, OSTP should recommend that the 
Administration leverage existing financing programs – such as DOE’s LPO – to help unlock 
private -sector investments in energy infrastructure and de- risk the long- term financial 
commitments necessary to ensure America’s global competitiveness  and maintain American 
energy dominance. Given the current policy ambiguity around co- located loads such as data 
centers adjacent to generation, LPO remains an important driver of private -sector investment to 
ensure grid reliability and fair costs for consumers.  
Speedi ng up the interconnection of new generation and transmission improvements for large -load 
customers is also critical. In addition, OSTP can recommend that the Federal government identify and exercise its legal authority to help streamline burdensome permitting processes and expedite the approval of energy infrastructure projects being built to power data centers. The US electricity grid is the largest machine in the world. As a country, we must speed up the process by which we grow and improve this amazing resource. 
Please con tact me if you have any questions on the content of this response or with respect to 
Homer City’s continuing support of the Administration’s goal to solidify the United States’ 
position as a leader in AI and secure a brighter future for all Americans.  
Since rely, 
William A . Wexler  
Chief Executive Officer  
Homer City Redevelopment LLC 


