 
1 
 
Comments of Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Responding to the National Science 
Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence 
Action Plan  
Introduction 
Houghton Mifflin Harcourt (HMH) appreciates the opportunity to submit comments on the 
National Science Foundation's (NSF) Request for Information (90 Fed. Reg. 9088, Feb. 6, 
2025) regarding the development of a federal Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan. As a 
leading provider of educational content, technology, and services, HMH has been at the 
forefront of integrating AI into education to unlock student potential, empower educators, 
and support economic competitiveness. We commend the NSF and the Office of Science 
and Technology Policy (OSTP) for spearheading this initiative, which we are confident will 
have a wide-ranging impact on AI development and deployment across the education 
sector. 
As you develop NSF/OSTP AI Action Plan, HMH encourages you to consider the following 
policy recommendations that aim to cultivate AI innovation in education, including 
encouraging responsible and effective AI use for teaching and learning, and strategically 
leveraging the technologies to support informed and effective decision making.   
ENCOURAGE THE ADOPTION OF HUMAN-CENTRIC AI PRINCIPLES  
Recommendation:  AI should empower teachers and other education professionals to 
most effectively help students prepare for academic and workforce success after 
graduation. AI should augment teachers’ capabilities, rather than replace them, and help 
educators with tasks that take time away from instruction and other direct learning support 
for students. This approach is not dissimilar to other economic sectors where future AI 
integration must respect and support human expertise. The AI Action Plan should 
acknowledge the vital importance of promoting human-in-the-loop systems in educational 
AI applications so that emerging AI innovations support, not supplant, human roles in 
teaching and learning.  
PROMOTE PRIVACY, SAFETY, AND ETHICAL STANDARDS 
Recommendation:  AI innovation, development, and deployment should be accompanied 
by robust student and personnel data privacy protections and ethical standards.  The vast 
data processed by AI poses risks to students’ and education professionals’ privacy and 
online safety. In education, safeguarding student data from misuse is paramount, and 
parents and students count on our schools to keep their information safe. We encourage 
the NSF to ensure that the AI Action Plan encourages the strengthening of existing privacy 
frameworks (e.g., Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act and the Children’s Online 
Privacy Protection Act) and encourages Congress to address AI-specific concerns. The AI 

2 
 Action plan should also encourage sector-wide AI ethical standards, emphasizing 
transparency, accountability, and online safety.  
FOSTER INNOVATION THROUGH BALANCED REGULATION 
Recommendation:  Create a regulatory framework that safeguards public interests, 
empowers students and parents, and promotes innovation. Overly prescriptive regulations 
risk stifling AI advancements. In education, flexible policies enable the development of 
tools that enhance learning outcomes while maintaining safety. Rely on existing 
regulations that provide guardrails for technology in education, whenever possible. 
Encourage adaptive regulations that allow industries to innovate responsibly. Support non-
binding guidance and best practice sharing to help sectors navigate AI integration without 
undue constraints. 
INVEST IN AI WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT AND AI LITERACY 
Recommendation:  Support education and workforce programs designed to increase AI 
literacy across economic sectors. Workers in all industries need the skills to effectively 
use and oversee AI tools. In education and workforce programs, teachers require 
preparation and professional development that will not only enable them to integrate AI 
into their classrooms but also to teach others how to use these innovative tools. The AI 
Action plan should encourage the development of AI literacy programs across all 
education and workforce programs, prioritizing sectors where human oversight is critical.  
ENSURE ACCESSIBILITY AND ACCESS TO AI  
Recommendation:  Develop policies that promote expanded access to AI for learning. AI 
has the potential to reduce learning disparities but can also exacerbate problems if not 
deployed thoughtfully and extensively. In education, universal access to AI will ensure all 
students benefit from these exciting technological advancements. The AI Action plan 
should encourage Congress to invest in infrastructure and programs that support AI 
access for all students. The plan should also encourage industry practices that prioritize 
greater accessibility and access. 
ENCOURAGE CONTINUOUS EVALUATION AND IMPROVEMENT 
Recommendation:  Promote ongoing research and evaluation to assess AI’s impact on 
learning and guide future innovations and development. Continuous assessment will 
ensure AI learning tools remain effective, ethical, and aligned with students’ and families’ 
needs. For example, in education, evaluating AI’s role in learning outcomes is essential. 
The Action Plan should encourage Congress to support cross-sector research initiatives 
that study AI’s impact on students’ academic and workforce outcomes. We urge you to 
support evidence-based evaluations that inform policy and industry best practices. 

3 
 Conclusion 
The development of a comprehensive federal AI Action Plan presents a pivotal opportunity 
to shape the future of AI in education and workforce programs and across economic 
sectors. By establishing policies that prioritize human-centric principles, safeguard privacy 
and ethics, encourage innovation, invest in workforce development, ensure equitable 
access, and promote continuous improvement, the plan can create an environment to 
ensure that AI benefits society at large. 
HMH is committed to advancing responsible AI integration, particularly in education, and 
we look forward to contributing to this important initiative. Thank you for your leadership 
on this important area of innovation.  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Lindsay Dworkin 
SVP, Policy & Government Affairs 
HMH 
 


