IN THE NETWORKING AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND 
DEVELOPMENT (NITRD) NATIONAL COORDINATION OFFICE (NCO), 
NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION.  
Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan  
90 Fed. Reg. 9088 -89 
COMMENTS OF  
THE HIGH TECH INVENTORS ALLIANCE  


STATEMENT OF INTEREST  
The High Tech  Inventors Alliance (HTIA) represents leading technology providers and 
includes some of the most innovative companies in the world.  HTIA member companies are 
global leaders in software, ecommerce, cloud computing, artificial intelligence, quantum 
computin g, digital advertising and marketing, streaming, networking and telecommunications 
hardware, computers, smartphones, and semiconductors.  HTIA includes four of the top six 
software companies in the world, two of the top ten providers of 5G network infrastr ucture, three 
of the ten largest tech hardware companies, and three of the ten largest semiconductor companies 
in the world.   
HTIA exists to promote innovation and American jobs through equitable patent policies 
and a more efficient, effective, and balanced patent system.  HTIA’s member companies are some 
of the world’s largest funders of research and development, collectively in vesting more than $165 
billion in these activities annually.  They are also some of the world’s largest patent owners and 
have collectively been granted nearly 350,000 patents, and include five of the top twenty AI patent 
holders.  HTIA members are also fr equent targets of assertions of patents that were improperly 
issued.   
HTIA’s members are leaders in the development of artificial intelligence.  They have a 
strong interest in the development of government policies that will allow the United States to 
maintain its leadership in this critical field.1   
1 This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action 
Plan and associated documents without attribution.  


3 
 COMMENTS  
 
 Maintaining the United States’ leadership in the development of artificial intelligence requires 
pro-innovation policies across the federal government.  Our patent system has a role to play in 
supporting this leadership, through robust patent examination to grant valid patent rights at the 
outset of the patenting process, and a robust patent review process to address any errors in 
examination after the fact.    
 This is particularly important given the tremendous increase in the patenting of AI 
innovations, and the growing percentage of those patents held by foreign entities.  The U.S. grants 
more patents to foreign applicants than any other country in the world.2  In 2023, more than 
167,000 —or 53% —of the patents issued by the USPTO went to foreign inventors.  The Chinese 
Patent Office, by contrast, granted 89% of its patents to Chinese inventors.3  Chinese entities 
received about 28,000 U.S. patents last year.4  Among the ten biggest recipients of U.S. patents in 
2024, the top two —and six of the top ten —were foreign entities.  Huawei —a company that the 
United States has deemed a threat to national security —ranks as the fifth largest recipient of U.S. 
patents.5  In total, more than 1.8 million of the U.S. patents currently in force were issued to foreign 
entities.6 
 With respect to patents that are directed to AI in particular, the United States has seen an 
explosion in patenting in recent years.7  Although many of these patents are held by American 
companies, a growing percentage go to foreign entities,  including companies based in China.8  
Indeed, in the last year, the total number of U.S. patents granted to China grew by more than 30%.9 
 A critical tool in pruning invalid patent claims and preserving AI innovators’ freedom to 
operate is patent validity review at the USPTO’s Patent Trial and Appeal Board.  In HTIA member 
 
2 WIPO, World Intellectual Property Indicators 2024, Chart A13, Patent grants for the top 20 offices, 2023; 
https://www.wipo.int/edocs/pubdocs/en/wipo -pub- en-world -intellectual -property -indicators -
2024.pdf . 
3 Id. 
4 See ifi CLAIMS, 2024 Trends and Insights, at https://www.ificlaims.com/rankings -trends -2024.htm     
5 Harrity & Harrity, Patent 300 List; https://harrityllp.com/patent300/ .  
6 WIPO, supra note 2, at Chart A61, Patent grants by office and origin, and patents in force, 2023.  
7 See Harrity & Harrity, “AI Titans: Who’s Dominating the Patent Universe,” at 
https://tinyurl.com/3d9nf5ku   
8 See The Motley Fool, “The Companies With the Most Generative AI Patents -- and Why Investors Should 
Care,” Jan. 27, 2025, at https://www.fool.com/research/generative -ai-patents -investors/   
9 See ifi CLAIMS, 2024 Trends and Insights, at https://www.ificlaims.com/rankings -trends -2024.htm    


4 companies’ experience,  PTAB provides expert and  efficient review of patent claims .  PTAB review 
also avoids  lengthy  and burdensome  litigation that allows an invalid patent to distract innovators 
from research and development  and opens up highly sensitive technical  information to discovery by 
competitors and foreign entities .   
Congress itself has also repeatedly recognized a need for patent -validity review by technical 
experts at the Patent Office.  Prior -art challenges in district court have always been available, but, 
since 1980, Congress has authorized —and repeatedly reenacted and refined —post-issuance review 
at the USPTO.10  The laws on the books reflect a recognition of the importance of an agency error 
correction process outside of the time, expense, and inefficiency of civil litigation.   
Withdraw the USPTO’s Fintiv Rule and Decide Patent Challenges on the Merits 
If the new Administration wishes to preserve AI innovators’ freedom to operate, it needs to 
reform the patent examination process to curtail the issuance of such a high number of invalid 
patents —and it must also preserve access to PTAB review.  In this reg ard, HTIA was concerned to 
see that the USPTO has maintained —and on February 28, even strengthened —a policy that 
arbitrarily denies a defendants’ access to PTAB review.  The USPTO has now twice sought 
comment on the rule of Apple Inc. v. Fintiv, Inc ., IPR2020 -00019 (Mar. 20, 2020), which precludes a 
validity review at the PTAB if the district court litigation is deemed likely to be “faster.”  (Never 
mind that, with post -trial motions, civil litigation is never actually faster than PTAB review —and it 
is never as technically accurate or reliable.)  The USPTO has received thousands of comments on its 
Fintiv  rule but has thus far declined to codify the framework that it articulates through notice -and-
comment rulemaking.  If a practice is so controversial that the agency avoids subjecting it to public 
scrutiny through rulemaking, its continued enforcement as a  mandatory rule by that agency makes a 
mockery of the rulemaking process, the Executive Orders that govern regulatory review, and the 
Administrative Procedure Act.  Fintiv has now resulted in the arbitrary denial of hundreds of 
meritorious review petitions, leaving a host of invalid patents in force.  If APA rulemaking is to 
mean anything, rules that have not undergone this statutorily prescribed process must not have the 
same force and effect as regulations that have been properly promulgated under the APA.   
10 See H.R. Rep. No. 96 -1307, 96th Cong., at 4 (1980) (emphasizing the need “to have the validity of patents 
tested in the Patent office where the most expert opinions exist and at a much reduced cost”) (report to 
accompany H.R. 6933, authorizing reexamination of  patents).   


5 And there should be no doubt that Fintiv is illegal.  This uncodified policy directly 
contravenes 35 U.S.C. § 315(b), which already sets a deadline for filing an inter partes review petition 
in relation to district court litigation.  That section provides petitioners with one year to seek PTAB 
review after they have been sued.  Congress carefully deliberated over this deadline and extended it 
from six months to a full year in the final version of the America Invents Act out of concern that 
petitioners be allowed adequate time to prepare and file t heir petitions.  It is not within the USPTO’s 
authority to second guess Congress’s express policy choices or to substitute its policy preferences for 
those embodied in an enacted statute.  Fintiv  cannot be reconciled with the Patent Act or with 
Congress’s clear intent in establishing a one -year deadline after service of a complaint for the filing 
of a petition.   
Finally, and most fundamentally, Fintiv allows Chinese companies and other entities that 
contribute nothing to the U.S. economy to extract billions of dollars from U.S. companies based on 
invalid patents.  Any strategy to strengthen our nation’s industrial base and continue to lead in the 
develo pment of technologies such as AI requires that the United States enable its innovators to 
defend themselves when they are sued on invalid patents.   
By putting in place pro -innovation policies, we can maintain America’s leads in AI and 
unlock all the opportunities it can create.  For patent policy, this means restoring the post -grant 
review process to evaluate patent challenges on their merits and conducting more robust patent 
examination at the outset to reduce the issuance of invalid patent righ ts.   


