The NSF Institute for
Artificial Intelligence & Fundamental Interactions
https://iaifi.org/ iaifi@mit.edu 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139-4307
March 14, 2025
Faisal D’Souza, NCO
Office of Science and Technology Policy
Executive Office of the President
2415 Eisenhower Avenue
Alexandria, VA 22314
Submitted by email to ostp-ai-rfi@nitrd.gov
Re: Request for Information (RFI) on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Action Plan
A revolution is brewing in AI+Science, and the NSF Institute for Artificial Intelligence
and Fundamental Interactions (IAIFI) appreciates this opportunity to provide insights we
have gained through almost 5 years of conducting interdisciplinary research in AI and Physics
to help shape policy that will strengthen the dominance of the United States in AI. We feel
it is crucial for academics to contribute to discussions of policy and national strategy given
the vast experience of researchers in the academic sector working across disciplines at the
forefront of both scientific discovery and new technologies. Therefore, we present information
to support what we believe is most essential for the future of AI in the United States:
(1)investing in interdisciplinary research that prioritizes robust and interpretable AI ,
(2)educating and training an AI-enabled STEM workforce, and (3) providing scalable
computing resources to support AI innovation.
About IAIFI
As one of the inaugural NSF AI Institutes, IAIFI serves as a nexus point for collaborative
efforts to advance both Physics and AI.1By combining state-of-the-art research with early
career talent and a growing AI+Physics community, IAIFI is enabling researchers to develop
AI technologies to tackle some of the most challenging problems in physics, and transfer these
technologies to the broader AI community. Additionally, IAIFI researchers are applying
physics principles to develop more robust and interpretable AI technologies .
IAIFI researchers are fusing the deep learning revolution with the time-tested strategies of
deep thinking in physics to gain a deeper understanding of our universe and of the principles
underlying intelligence itself. IAIFI research spans a range of disciplines, covering topics
1https://iaifi.org
1

in Foundational AI, Physics Theory, Physics Experiment, and Astrophysics. IAIFI has
demonstrated that many problems across these domains have shared solutions, since they
involve similar prior knowledge, are based on the same underlying physics principles, and
face common experimental and theoretical challenges. Thus, enabling researchers across
AI+Physics to work together has been a transformative tool for scientific advancement.
Invest in interdisciplinary research to advance AI+Physics and pri-
oritize robust and interpretable AI
Given the fundamental principles underlying the physical sciences, the Physics domain is
especially well positioned to enhance our understanding of how AI works, as well as push the
field toward robust techniques with its complex and extensive datasets. By infusing physics
intelligence into artificial intelligence, IAIFI researchers are demonstrating the virtuous cy-
cle of AI+Physics: AI techniques can help make significant discoveries in various physics
domains and at the same time physics principles and insights can advance AI tools and lead
to improved understanding of AI.
As an illustrative example of Physics impacting AI, IAIFI researchers collaborated across
domains to develop a physics-inspired theory of representation learning.2In particular, they
improved our understanding of the phenomenon of “grokking,” where models generalize
long after overfitting their training set. By analyzing the behavior of the representations in
algorithmic tasks, IAIFI researchers were able to explain (and even predict) many aspects of
grokking. This work highlights the usefulness of effective theories, commonly used in physics,
to model neural network dynamics.
A complementary example, which demonstrates AI impacting Physics, is a project ex-
ploring the potential for reinforcement learning to be used to control the squeezed vacuum
system of the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO), which would
optimize LIGO’s quantum performance.3LIGO is a flagship NSF experiment with sites
in Livingston, Louisiana, and Hanford, Washington, with unparalleled sensitivity to grav-
itational waves in the world. After an analysis of this technique on past LIGO data, two
experimental projects are now being designed to deploy AI on LIGO-like hardware, in simple
configurations, and then scale up the complexity to achieve even better sensitivity.
Without dedicated funding to pursue these cross-disciplinary projects, researchers would
be limited in their ability to conduct exploratory research that has the potential to signifi-
cantly impact multiple fields. AI has become pervasive across all fields of science, and a key
way to ensure U.S. dominance is to leverage the full spectrum of scientific knowledge to both
deploy and strengthen it. Information sharing across disciplines will accelerate advancements
in AI by combining domain-specific knowledge and best practices.
2Z. Liu, O. Kitouni, N. Nolte, E.J. Michaud, M. Tegmark and M. Williams, Towards Understanding
Grokking: An Effective Theory of Representation Learning inConference on Neural Information Processing
Systems , 2022
3C. Whittle, G. Yang, M. Evans and L. Barsotti, Machine learning for quantum-enhanced gravitational-
wave observatories, Physical Review D 108 (2023)
2

The RFI notes that a goal of the Administration is that “unnecessarily burdensome
requirements do not hamper private sector AI innovation.” One way to achieve this goal is
to prioritize robust and interpretable AI from the ground up. As discussed above, Physics
has shown to be especially useful as both a testbed for robust AI, and for thinking about AI
techniques in a way that can help understand them. Leveraging fundamental science domains
like Physics will help develop a deeper understanding of AI through scientific principles.
We recommend that the Administration direct funding agencies, such as the
NSF and DOE, to prioritize supporting interdisciplinary AI+Science programs
that focus both on developing AI for scientific discovery and leveraging scien-
tific expertise for AI research . Existing programs like the NSF AI Institutes enable
interdisciplinary collaboration and demonstrate the virtuous cycle of AI and Science.
Educate and train an AI-enabled STEM workforce
The future of AI research and the United States’ strong role in its development is contin-
gent on educating and training an AI-enabled STEM workforce. Regardless of their field, it
is becoming increasingly necessary that early-career researchers incorporate AI and related
techniques involving data and computer science into their work. Federal support for educat-
ing researchers across disciplines and at all education and career stages will help to ensure a
pipeline of AI literacy and establish a baseline of knowledge to build upon.
As an example, the IAIFI Fellowship program, which employs postdoctoral researchers
working at the intersection of AI and Physics, has demonstrated the impact that dedicated
interdisciplinary training can have in both academia and industry. The first cohort of Fellows
have moved on to professor positions at leading universities and research positions at top AI
companies, such as Meta and Anthropic. AI education at all levels is advantageous for the
United States workforce broadly.
In addition, IAIFI runs a week-long graduate-level training program each summer offering
opportunities for students to strengthen their skills through lectures and hands-on training.
The number of applicants to this program has increased significantly each year, to over
400 applicants in 2025. IAIFI has also worked with MIT to develop an interdisciplinary
PhD in Physics, Statistics, and Data Science, and to bolster AI-related curriculum offerings
in the Physics department. This includes the development of a free course on the MITx
digital learning platform on Computational Data Science in Physics, which has attracted
students from around the United States. The enthusiasm for these resources and programs
demonstrates the need for this type of interdisciplinary training, especially at the university
level.
Many federal funding agencies, e.g.the NSF, already consider broader societal impacts
in funding decisions. We recommend that the Administration direct funding agencies
to consider AI education, and training an AI-enabled STEM workforce, as high-
priority areas of broader societal impact when evaluating grant proposals.
3

Provide national infrastructure for scalable computing resources
The use of AI across all stages of research means that there is a broad spectrum of computing
needs—some researchers can compute what they need to on their laptops, some need access
to several GPUs, and some need sustained access to a much higher volume of resources.
The federal government has already begun to set up opportunities for U.S. researchers to
access free computing resources through programs such as the National AI Research Resource
(NAIRR) Pilot4and the NSF ACCESS program.5The biggest impact of these programs is
that they allow researchers at all career stages to access compute, regardless of what their
university or company is able to provide.
IAIFI researchers have had the opportunity to use these resources and they are extremely
valuable, particularly at the scale of several GPUs for a small project. However, these re-
sources provide little flexibility for scaling up as projects build on the successful development
and deployment of AI techniques. Providing scalable resources at the national level would
significantly boost the ability of U.S. researchers to conduct meaningful research with AI
and would improve the efficiency with which they use the resources.
In order to provide accessible and scalable computing resources, the Admin-
istration should build on the NAIRR and ACCESS programs to include options for
research groups to request a pool of resources to be allocated to the group for exploratory
use, which can then grow as they grow, with the goal of facilitating efficient large-scale
deployment of cutting-edge AI technologies.
Conclusion
IAIFI has seen firsthand the impact of AI, not only on our research but also on our early-
career talent and our interdisciplinary community. Now is the time to establish how the
AI research ecosystem of the United States should operate. We believe that by enabling
interdisciplinary research that prioritizes robust and interpretable AI, building an AI-enabled
STEM workforce, and providing access to scalable computing resources, the United States
will continue to lead the way in AI globally , as well as increase the longevity of AI’s
positive impact on society.
Filed by the NSF Institute for Artificial Intelligence and Fundamental Interactions (IAIFI).
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government
in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
4https://nairrpilot.org
5https://access-ci.org
4

