From: Ian Danforth
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Sunday, March 16, 2025 12:08:19 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
To whom it may concern,
 I am writing in support of an AI Action Plan that provides a clear ruling of "fair use" for
training machine learning models on publicly accessible data even if that data is protected by
copyright.  
  It is impossible to come up with a notion of copyright that respects creative endeavors if
humans are not allowed to learn and draw inspiration from copyrighted works. The process ofviewing, analyzing, and incorporating aspects of copyrighted works into future creative effortsis definitional to how artists learn and produce new art. There can be no meaningful distinctionbetween how humans accomplish this task and how machine learning models accomplish thistask. Some might say that the scale of the process is different, but consider that copyrightedworks are viewed millions of times by individuals all of who are subtly or not so subtlyinfluenced by that experience. Machine learning models learn from and generate new outputinfluenced by copyrighted material in the same way. It is equally true for humans andmachines that they could repeat verbatim something that they have read, but we punish thatact, not the fact that they read the work in the first place. And that is the clear purpose ofcopyright, to protect an artist's ability to *distribute* and *perform* their works. It has neverbeen, and must never be allowed to become, a way for artists to prevent people from viewing,appreciating, and learning from their art. Anything other than a clear ruling of "fair use" wouldgive this unintended power to artists and undermine the foundations of the creation of everysubsequent piece of art. Does a new drawing seem influenced by Disney? Well then Disneywould be able to sue for the artists having *seen* the original work. Such an absurdity must berejected. Machines and humans alike should be allowed to view all publicly, or privatelyacquired, media and art that they wish and, short of redistributing or outright copying thatmedia, be allowed to incorporate it into their understanding of the world and their futurecreative endeavors.
 
Sincerely yours,
Ian Danforth
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


