March 15, 2025  
Request for Information on the Development of 
an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
National Science Foundation  
Submitted to:  
National Science Foundation  
Faisal D’ Souza, NCO 
2415 Eisenhower  Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  Submitted by:  
ICF Incorporated, L.L.C. 
1902 Reston Metro Plaza  
Reston, VA 20190  
Trent Hone  
Vice President , Technology 
and Product Innovation  


Maintaining and Accelerating the U.S. Lead in AI  
Introduction  
The United States leads  the world in 
artificial intelligence (AI) innovation, driven 
by a dynamic private sector, powerful  
research institutions, and strategic governmental support. As AI technologies continue to evolve, it is crucial to maintain and accelerate U.S. leadership by 
promoting accelerated AI adoption and 
fostering an environment conducive to innovation and global competitiveness. Our 
response outlines strategic policy recommendations intended to sustain and 
enhance the U.S. lead in AI . 
Our recommendations can be summarized as “prioritize guardrails and remove barriers.” T o accelerate AI innovation and 
ensur e broad adoption, the United States 
should embrace a decentralized 
governance model that empowers industries to develop sector -specific 
standards, with the government providing broad policy guidance to promote transparency, security, and risk management. A flexible, sector -driven 
approach to AI governance would allow 
industries to create tailored frameworks while ensuring alignment with national priorities.  
This effort would include:  
•Encouraging industry -led
standard  setting. Sectors should
develop AI governance frameworkssuited to their operational and ethicalconsiderations, ensuring practical andeffective compliance.•Establishing broad federal AI policyguidelines . The government can
provide overarching principles —such as
risk transparency, security, andresponsible AI use—while allowingindustries to determine implementationspecifics.
•Enhancing interagency coordination.AI policy councils should aligngovernance approaches across sectors,ensuring consistency while allowing forsector -specific flexibility.
•Supporting public -private
partnerships.  Collaboration between
government, industry, and academiacan ensure that voluntary standardsalign with national interests, includingeconomic growth, workforce readiness,and national security.
The following sections provide more specific recommendations.  
Procurement  
To maintain and accelerate U.S. leadership, it is vital to employ procurement 
approaches that allow government to keep pace with rapid advancements in the field. New developments occur every month; new milestones are achieved each quarter . To 
be innovative with AI technologies, the government must be innovative with its approach to procurement.  
Accelerate AI Innovation by 
Innovating With Procurement  
To take advantage of AI, the government 
should provide fast-track acquisition 
pathways for AI tools and capabilities.  
The General Services Administration (GSA) 
Schedule and the Department of Defense (DoD) Other Transaction Authority (OTA) are effective examples  of how policy can 
shorten procurement lead times . Those 


mechanisms should be expanded—or 
similar mechanisms should be created —so 
that agencies across government can rapidly adopt and take advantage of AI solutions.  
The government should also provide incentives and partnerships that encourage the development of innovative approaches. The Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program is an excellent example of how innovation can be driven through policy . The Department of Homeland 
Security (DHS) Science and Technology Directorate’s Silicon Valley Innovation Program (SVIP) also encourages innovation by offering a streamlined 
process to prototype cutting-edge solutions. These are effective models that should be expanded upon, allowing more private firms to accelerate AI adoption and use.  
In addition, the government should adopt policies that encourage the following improvements to procurement processes:  
• Greater use of pilot-first procurement 
models  that allow agencies to test , 
refine, and validate AI solutions before 
committing to full-scale implementation 
• Standardiz ation of  AI risk evaluation 
criteria across agencies to create consistent expectations for vendors  and 
accelerate procurement of proven models and solutions  
• A focus on outcome- based performance 
metrics rather than rigid compliance 
checklists so that vendors are motivated 
to continuously improve and are aligned 
with desired agency outcomes  
• Eliminating workforce minimum required 
staffing levels so that vendors can employ AI solutions creatively and harness their full benefit  
• Improving compliance and oversight 
reporting by shifting to automated AI-based validation instead of manual  reviews  • Streamlin ing the Federal Acquisition 
Regulation ( FAR) to allow agencies to 
buy at the speed of need  
Incentivize Investment in 
AI Innovation 
AI systems create enormous efficiency 
gains. U.S. private industry is reaping these 
benefits and replacing time-consuming, manual processes with automated routines. However, similar  gains come more slowly to 
the federal government because existing policy inhibits  on-contract innovation. Most 
contract s pay based on hours worked. As a 
result, contractors are not incentivized to 
introduce AI solutions that increase 
efficiency  because reducing the hours 
worked will reduce the size of their contract.  
Policies should be introduced that allow 
more flexibility  on the part of contractors. If 
they were paid based on outcomes achieved or objectives obtained—perhaps using an objectives and key results (OKR) structure or milestone-driven payments —
they would be incentivized to introduce 
innovations that result in efficiencies and produce improved outcomes for the American people. Additionally, establishing 
clear guidelines for converting existing AI-
enabled contracts to outcome-based 
models will help agencies adopt this model effectively while minimizing risks.  
Clarify AI Use in 
Proposal  Processes  
No clear standard exists for when and how 
it is acceptable to employ AI in drafting 
proposals  for federal work. This leads to 
waste and inefficiency, especially  as AI 
becomes  increasingly integrated into 
standard business productivity tools, such 
as the Microsoft Office suite. The 
government will benefit from establishing 
clear policies for how contractors can or 
cannot use AI in their proposal efforts. Such 
policies should differentiate between AI -


generated content and AI -assisted 
efficiency tools so that AI use for non-
substantive enhancements like formatting, 
grammar checks, and data organization are 
always acceptable. C lear, realistic 
guidelines on permissible AI use across the 
government will accelerate and enhance procurement processes . 
Eliminate Restrictions that Block 
Technical Collaboration 
The rapid advancement  of AI technology  
combined with existing procurement 
policies makes it more difficult for 
government agencies to acquire the best 
solution. Restrictions that prevent early 
engagement between potential vendors and government stakeholders inhibit 
evaluation of AI solutions and exploration 
of alternatives.  
Policies should be introduced that allow for structured pre-solicitation phases and 
facilitate technical collaboration between potential vendors and agency stakeholders.  
This will reduce the risk of undefined 
requirements —which often lead to wasteful 
contract modifications —and ensure that 
proposals are more accurate and complete, permitting agencies to make more informed 
procurement decisions .  
Prevent Model Lock -In 
Polic ies should be introduced that avoid AI 
vendor and model lock -in by encouraging 
flexibility in the use of specific AI models. 
The foundation model ecosystem is changing rapidly . New, powerful proprietary 
and open-source models are becoming available every quarter . To allow agencies  
to take advantage of the best technologies, government policies should be introduced 
that incentivize agencies to preserve flexibility and that encourage the use of 
contractors  who can support new  and 
different models and vendors  as they 
become available. Education and Workforce  
To maintain and accelerate U.S. leadership, AI solutions must be adopted and used. Currently, the most significant limitation on their use is education and training. The 
federal government can accelerate AI innovation by introducing policies that 
encourage education and training for AI 
use, such as the following:   
•First, the government should provideexpanded funding for AI education and
training, both for citizens andgovernment employees,  to encourage
the growth of an AI -ready workforce .
Funding should be flexible and outcomeoriented so that industries and agenciescan adapt specific training andeducation to their needs  and employ
approaches such as workshops, online
courses, and certifications focused onthe practical uses of AI, its applications,and ethical considerations.
•Second, public -private partnerships
should be created with the mission ofbuilding and maintaining a high-
proficiency AI workforce. These
partnerships should be aligned with
specific industries so that skills
development is rapid and responsive tothe needs of those industries.  This is
essential to ensure the workforce keepspace with AI advancements, addressingboth talent and skill  set shortages so
industries can fully leverage AI -driven
innovation and productivity gains.
These steps will help ensure that, as the field advances, the United States  maintains 
its leadership position in AI by investing in talent . A strong domestic AI workforce 
supports  long-term innovation and 
economic growth, securing America’s position as a global leader . 


Application and Use  
AI applications  face hurdles because many 
citizens lack familiarity with the underlying 
technology and are apprehensive about the associated risks. To spur adoption and ensure the United States maintains its lead in the field, policy must address 
these concerns.  
Establish a Public AI Best 
Practices Repository 
The federal government should create a 
centralized, publicly accessible AI Best Practices Repository where agencies can share case studies , procurement 
guidelines, implementation approaches , 
and risk management strategies .  
This repository should include: 
•Case studies  detailing the approach
taken and beneficial outcomes achieved
•Procurement and implementation guides
•Risk management frameworks (RMFs)
and strategies
Facilitate Access to AI Resources 
and Data 
The quality of AI outputs is largely a 
question of data, both the training data and the data available for analysis and computation. Currently, AI innovation in the federal government is constrained by the lack of data sharing between and among agencies and departments. To innovate faster, this must change.  
The federal government can encourage broader AI application and use by 
promoting the sharing of data held by federal agencies, especially data that are 
not subject to intellectual property (IP) or 
privacy restrictions. This will provide other agencies, private industry, and researchers with valuable resources for developing new AI capabilities and technologies, especially in critical fields like healthcare . Modern 
approaches to data transparency and integration will allow AI solutions to reflect 
the full potential of the federal government and industry partners. This will increase confidence, improve the quality of AI results, and encourage broader adoption.  
Encourage Responsible AI  
For critical sectors (e.g., healthcare, 
finance, transportation), errors are 
unacceptable, and risks must be managed. In these sectors, guidelines for responsible AI must be developed and employed. AI has great potential to improve outcomes and drive efficiency; however,  to ensure 
that potential is realized, citizens must have confidence in the AI systems that are developed and used. Accordingly, the government should prompt the development of guidelines and regulations for responsible development and use of AI systems. A balanced approach to regulation will increase confidence, accelerate adoption, and promote the necessary innovation to keep the U nited States  in its 
global leadership position.  
Accelerate ATO Processes for 
AI Applications  
To encourage AI adoption and use across 
government, mechanisms must be put in place to allow Authority to Operate (ATO) 
processes  to move more quickly. Current 
ATO processes are costly and time  
consuming. They disincentiviz e the 
development of AI innovations that would 
otherwise benefit government and citizens.  
Improvements to ATO processes should include:  
•Preapproved AI security models and
reference architectures
•Fast-track approval pathways for low -
risk AI applications
•Tiered, risk -based ATO approvals
These approaches will accelerate the development and deployment of AI solutions and incentivize experimentation 


with innovative AI tools, resulting in broader 
use of AI across government.  
Open-Source Development  
Open-source tools and techniques 
accelerat e innovation and provide a 
valuable stimulant to research and development . Accordingly, the federal 
government should view open-source approaches strategically and take several 
supporting policy actions . 
Promote Open- Source 
AI Initiatives  
Moreso than other technologies, AI is a “public good” challenge. Effective AI 
technologies require high- quality data for 
training and testing; much of those data are 
publicly available, but they need to be 
accessible in formats that allow private companies and the federal government to use them and take advantage of them . 
Policies should be crafted that encourage the development and use of these formats. Google’s TensorFlow project is a valuable 
example of how this can be done and how  
open-source approaches can stimulate  AI 
research and development.  
Support Collaborative Research  
Innovation occurs more rapidly when ideas and concepts jump from one discipline to another, providing new ways to look at old problems. The federal government should 
therefore introduce policies that facilitate partnerships between industry, academia, and government  that address national 
challenges using open-source AI solutions.   
The Defense Innovation Unit  (DIU) is an 
excellent example of how these kinds of 
partnerships  can be employed 
advantageously. DIU (1) works with 
commercial industry to identify compelling solutions that have potential, (2) funds pilot 
contracts, and (3) facilitates rapid 
procurement if those pilots prove fruitful. The federal government ought to introduce policies that allow similar partnerships and rapid procurement for other agencies and programs. It should also encourage the use 
of open-source techniques  in these 
procurements so that other agencies and 
industries can rapidly benefit.  
Explainability and Assurance 
of AI Model Outputs  
The reasoning processes of AI systems are regularly  criticized as “opaque.” The lack of 
explainability discourages adoption and use, ultimately limiting innovation and endangering the U.S. lead in this important field. Policies can be tailored to stimulate innovation while increasing explainability. This will spur adoption and encourage 
further innovation, creating a virtuous cycle.  
Standardize Explainability Metrics  
The federal government should collaborate with private industry to develop industry -
wide standards for measuring and reporting the explainability of AI models. This will 
move explainability from a qualitative 
discipline to a quantitative one. With measurable standards, the transparency 
and interpretability of AI systems will increase, encouraging broader adoption 
and use. 
Some t ools, such as  LIME (Local 
Interpretable Model -agnostic Explanations) 
and SHAP (SHapley Additive 
exPlanations) , are already being used to 
provide insights into model predictions. These tools are examples of how to provide 
greater transparency into AI outputs and 
illustrate a path forward. However, the lack 
of standardized metrics for explainability poses challenges in comparing and validating AI models across different applications and industries. Federal 
encouragement for industry -wide standards 
will address this challenge.  


Invest in Explainable AI (XAI) 
Research  
Policies should be introduced to support 
research efforts to develop inherently 
interpretable AI models and improv e 
existing techniques for model explainability. 
This is a strategic investment that can accelerate adoption and use of AI solutions in the essential fields of healthcare, finance, and autonomous systems where understanding the rationale behind AI decisions is crucial.  
The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency’s (DARPA ’s) XAI program is a 
leading example of work in this field. It aims  
to create AI systems that make decisions 
that can be understood and trusted by 
human users. Policy should encourage additional programs and avenues of research in this area so that government and private industry can collaborate on 
alternative approaches and pursue multiple promising pathways in parallel.  
Intellectual Property  
As AI adoption accelerates, it is critical to establish clear IP guidelines to address 
ownership, licensing, and compliance. 
Clear guidance is required to make existing 
laws more effective and help accelerate 
innovative use of AI technologies.  
IP guidance should include the following: 
•Frameworks t hat distinguish between
AI-generated and human-createdcontent  to ensur e clarity on copyright
eligibilit y, establish consistent attribution
policies , and specify disclosure
standards
•Adaptation of existing contractual
frameworks—such as the FAR —that
stimulate private investment in AIsolutions and retention of limited IP
protections while safeguarding the
federal government’s rights•Clarifying IP protections for data—withappropriate differentiation betweenpublic, government -owned, and
proprietary datasets —so that (1) AI
companies and solution providers canbe confident about the scope of their IP
rights  and the risks of third-party data
and (2)  pre-trained models can be well
understood and appropriately mitigated
Risks, Regulation, and 
Governance   
Whether data privacy or other risks, when 
promoting AI innovation, effective risk management is crucial to ensure AI systems are developed and deployed responsibly and sustainably.  However, it is 
essential that risk management and any associated regulations accelerate—and do 
not inhibit —innovation.  
Develop Adaptive Regulatory 
Frameworks  
Policy should encourage the development 
of regulatory frameworks that can adapt to 
the rapid pace of AI innovation. The 
National Institute of Standards and 
Technology (NIST) AI RMF is a good example of a standard that manages AI risk and provides a foundation for governance while stimulating— not stifling— innovation. 
Policy should encourage use and continued enhancement of NIST’s AI RMF and similar 
frameworks to ensure effective risk 
management with AI solutions.  
Encourage Automated 
Mechanisms for Regulatory 
Compliance  
To ensure regulatory frameworks like the 
NIST AI RMF accelerate innovation, the 
federal government should encourage the development of automated mechanisms for validating compliance. Like automated 
mechanisms that validate software 
development processes and streamline the 


ATO process in the federal government 
today, the introduction of automated mechanisms for AI compliance will 
stimulate progress and spur innovation. It 
will also  accelerate AI adoption and use.  
Establish AI Governance Bodies 
The federal government should encourage the formation of governance bodies that leverage public -private partnerships to 
oversee the development of regulatory 
frameworks. The National AI Advisory 
Committee is an example of how this can be done; it should be adapted and configured to reinforce the current 
administration’s priorities and to maintain the U.S. lead in AI innovation. If necessary, subcommittees could be formed to address certain areas of AI governance, regulation, and risk management.  
Establish AI Evaluation and 
Validation Standards 
Developing standardized frameworks for AI 
performance and risk assessment can enhance innovation by providing clear guidelines without imposing restrictive regulations. This approach ensures AI applications are effective and reliable, supporting the admini stration ’s goal of 
maintaining global AI dominance.  Conclusion  
Maintaining and accelerating the U.S. lead in AI requires a comprehensive approach that fosters innovation by creating 
appropriate guardrails that unlock the creativity of private industry, federal agencies, and citizens. By implementing the policy recommendations outlined in this response, the United States can create a 
thriving AI ecosystem that drives economic growth, enhances national security, and improves the quality of life for its citizens.  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential 
information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
 


icf.com x.com/ICF
linkedin.com/company/icf -international
facebook.com/ThisIsICF
#thisisicf
About ICF  
ICF (NASDAQ:ICFI ) is a global consulting services company with approximately 9,000 full -time and part -time employees, but we are 
not your typical consultants. At ICF, business analysts and policy specialists work together with digital strategists, data s cientists 
and creatives. We combine unmatched industry expertise with cutting -edge engagement capabilities to help organizations solve 
their most complex challenges. Since 1969, public and private sector clients have worked with ICF to navigate change and shap e 
the future.  
 


