March  12, 202 5 
Office of Science and Technology Policy  
Executive Office of the President   
Eisenhower Executive Office Building   
1650 Pennsylvania Avenue    
Washington, DC  20 504      
RE: IIA Comments Regarding the Development of an A rtificial Intelligence  Action Plan  
To Whom It May Concern : 
On behalf of The Institute of Internal Auditors (The IIA), the international professional organization  
representing more than  260,000 internal auditors, I appreciate the opportunity to comment on the 
Office of Science and Technology Policy’s (OSTP)  request for information entitled, “Development of 
an Artificial Intelligence  Action Plan .”  
The rapid proliferation of  emerging technolog y, such as artificial intelligence  (AI), represents a 
transformati ve moment for the American economy.  The unprecedented power of AI  – if harnessed 
appropriately – has the potential to accelerate innovation , enhance competition, and drive economic 
growth.  In a recent speech at the Artificial Intelligence Action Summit, Vice President JD Vance 
acknowledged the promise of AI , stating,  “We face the extraordinary prospect of a new industrial 
revolution, one on par with the invention o f the steam engine  or Bessemer steel.”1 
Given the substantial  impact AI  will have on the lives of all Americans , it is imperative that the United 
States establish clear and measured safeguards  governing  the application of this technology. The 
development of an AI Action Plan, pursuant  to President Donald Trump’s executive order “ Removing 
Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial  Intelligence ,” is a critical  first step in achieving  this 
obje ctive by identifying the core elements of a policy  framework .   
Although  AI policy discussions generally  focus on technological and  legal  issues , The IIA believes  that 
a comprehensive  AI Action Plan must also  highlight  the importance  of governance, internal controls , 
and risk management.  An emphasis on these essential  practices  will, in part,  ensure organizations  
utilizing AI :   
▪Institute processes for effectively identifying and mitigating potential AI -related risks
1 Vance, JD. “ Remarks by the Vice President at the Artificial Intelligence Action Summit .” February 11, 2025. The American 
Presidency Project , University of California at Santa Barbara , https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/remarks -the-
vice-president -the-artificial -intelligence -action -summit -paris -france . 


2 ▪Establish appropriate internal controls and independent oversight
A critical component of any robust risk management analysis – and one The IIA recommends should 
be recognized in the AI Action Plan – is the complementary role of an organization’s internal audit 
function.  
An internal audit function – operating in conformity with the Global Internal Audit Standards  – is the 
entity responsible for providing  an organization’s governing body with objective assurance over AI -
related risk management and internal control processes.  The work of internal audit promotes  
confidence among stakeholders due to its independence from management and direct reporting 
relationship to the governing body  (i.e. board of directors) .  
In other words, internal audit leverages a deep understanding of the organization to conduct AI 
evaluations designed to promote transparency and accountability.  This private -sector approach to AI 
oversight is important  because it ensures the professionals  performing assessments possess  an 
intimate knowledge of the organization’s strategic goals, culture, and risk appetite.  These powerful 
insights produce AI audits that supply  a governing body  with substantive and actionable information.  
The intersection between internal audit and AI signals  a unique  opportunity to limit “onerous and 
unnecessary government control over the development of AI.”2 Rather than establish a traditional 
regulatory regime direct ing a specific government agency to audit AI operations, The IIA recommends 
the AI Action Plan empower the private sector to execute this responsibility through internal audit. 
This commonsense approach for maintaining balanced oversight of AI activities will promote greater 
organizational collaboration and minimize the potential for regulatory enforcement overreach.   
As OSTP examine s policy solutions designed to promote American leadership in AI, the internal audit 
profession is uniquely positioned to facilitate private sector -based  trans parency and accountability. 
It is for this reason that The IIA recommends  the forthcoming AI Action Plan address  the following  
important topics :  
1)Recognize the Significance of AI Risk  Management and  Governance : The IIA supports a
greater policy emphasis concerning the need for appropriate risk management and
governance processes related to implementing and using AI in business operations .
2)Strengthen Internal AI Oversight:  Utilize  internal audit -led assurance processes for evaluating
an organization’s AI -related internal controls , risk management  and governance structures.
The presence of a qualified internal audit function will strengthen independent oversight
efforts and increase consumer confidence.
2 Executive Office of the President, “ Fact Sheet: President Donald J. Trump Takes Action to Enhance America’s AI Leadership.” 
January 23, 2025 . The White House, https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact -sheets/2025/01/fact -sheet -president -donald -j-
trump -takes -action -to-enhance -americas -ai-leadership/ . 


3 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan 
and associated documents without attribution.  Should OSTP have any questions regarding this proposal, or wish to receive a comprehensive briefing 
on the internal audit profession, please contact Michael Downing, IIA Senior Director for 
North American Advocacy .
Thank you for your consideration o f our comments. 
Sincerely, 
Anthony J. Pugliese, CIA, CPA, CGMA, CITP 
President and Chief Executive Officer  
The Institute of Internal Auditors  


