From: Ilexa Yardley
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan: The Circular Theory AIM Architecture
Date: Friday, February 7, 2025 7:48:12 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
My idea is documented in a letter I sent on January 6 to Susan Wiles, Chief of Staff. Please
retrieve that letter if you have a serious interest in my suggestion.
The Internet was originally a government INTRANET (DARPA). My first suggestion is that we
have a private intranet in the US similar to DARPA as an experiment to test The CIrcularTheory (a new unified architecture for the ATOM and therefore a better architecture for
technology (Semi-Condutor) (CPU GPU UPU )  in general.
Today, Technology is based on the relationship between a zero and a one without anadequate (or complete) understanding of the atom.
My architecture is called Autonomous Intentional Masking (AIM) and you can find out about it
here:
Https://circular-theory.squarespace.com/faq
  
 
The Circular Theory
My suggestion is, 1) you assign someone to this project, 2) you get ahold of my letter to Susan
Wiles and keep it confidential, 3) you bring me on bpard for a 3 month contract (or longer)and we put together a team to explore the AIM architecture
 which would give the US a lead
globally technologically, since, technically, everything in technology is already using myarchitecture (but not to its maximum advantage).
Also read my full bio (the short version and then attached to the longer version) here circular-
theory.squarespace.com/ilexayardle y. Ilexa Yardley — The Circular TheoryThe Circular Theory
Conservation of the Circle is the core (and, thus, the only) dynamic in Nature
circular-theory.squarespace.com


(0 (1) 0)
AIM — The Circular Theory    https://circular-theory.squarespace.com/AIM
This architecture is faster than Google's fastest quantum chip WILLOW and also  faster than
AMD-powered El Capitan which is currently the fastest supercomputer (that we know about).
Also, as a side note, we should NOT be using OPEN architecture (as ub Deepseek for this new
phase of nuclear computing.Nor should we ever assume the fastest computer
  chip is for sale publically.
Ilexa Yardley
Author, The Circular Theory
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


