2261 Market Street 
San Francisco, CA 94114 
imbue.com 
 
 
 
March 14, 2025 
 
Faisal D’Souza, NCO Oﬃce of Science and Technology Policy  
Executive O ﬃce of the President 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
 
Submitted by email to  
 
 Re: Request for Information (RFI) on the Development of an Arti ﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action 
Plan 
 
 Every lab working at the frontier of AI has agents in their sights. The reason they do, and why we 
should care, is that agents ﬁnally return contr ol to people over their digital lives. 
 
The signi ﬁcance is breathtaking. Businesses will be able t o access their data wherever it lives and in 
whatever form it takes to actually solve their problems. Individuals will have tools that do what they 
need – loyal to them, not a company with its own incentives to control and proﬁt off its users. 
 
Agents today may seem rudimentary or clumsy, but that is also how personal computing looked 
when it crept onto a stage once dominated by mainframes. Over time, the power of machines that 
anyone could use led to an eclipsing of everything that preceded them. 
 
We are at a similar juncture with agents, but unlike with personal computers, where they emerged as 
alternatives to a previous paradigm, computing today depends heavily on the platforms that control 
what we do online.  
 
Because of this, the primary obstacle to realizing the promise of AI agents may be legal, not technical. 
 A small handful of companies dominate our devices and communications. Two operating systems 
account for more than 99% of U.S. mobile market share. Social media and messaging platforms are 
controlled by a handful of very few players. A long tail of vital services in other areas of our lives, 
from healthcare to retail to ﬁnancial services, has seen dr amatic consolidation. 
 
And every one of them can deny access to an AI agent working for us simply by deciding to do so. 


There are profound reasons to prevent them from strangling AI’s greatest potential in its infancy. 
It is astonishing that we are on a path where incumbent technology platforms could self-preference 
away the most promising future for AI, with implications for the industry, U.S. competitiveness, and 
our geopolitical reach. We’ve seen what happens when we let the incumbent players use their 
dominance in one technology to stymie the potential of challengers; if we want to see AI fully 
realized, we cannot let this repeat. 
On a moral level, our digital lives should belong to us, not whichever corporation wields the greatest 
power at any given time. If an elderly patient could beneﬁt from an agent that understood  her 
appointment schedule,  personal proclivities, and mobility constraints to nudge her whenever she 
needed, why should she depend on someone else's permission to allow that agent to act on her 
behalf with her data? 
For the past decade our digital lives have been dictated by a handful of companies, controlling the 
contours of how we experience the internet and connect. AI agents have the potential to disrupt this 
balance and place the power to control this experience in the hands of the consumer. Let us not 
squander this opportunity. 
The solution is to protect interoperability and access for AI agents, so that  individuals can regain 
control over their data and digital lives without the worry of arbitrary restrictions. 
The bene ﬁt is multifold: 
●Users, platforms, and agent developers will have a shared understanding of the rights of
users and the permissibility of assistive tools
●No overly burdensome regulation is needed to spur the startup ecosystem to unlock
competing approaches to AI agents
●Existing approaches to managing users can extend simply to agents
●The pernicious effects of monopolistic control will be substantially eroded by natural market
forces instead of costly regulations and enforcement with the potential for negative side
effects
●New business models, including subscription alternatives to ad-based services, will emerge,
expanding user choice in a time where our options have been limited
●Assistive technologies, once primarily only the domain for users with disabilities, will have
access to the entire general market, advancing these technologies at a much greater pace


About Imbue 
Imbue is a frontier AI research company developing advanced AI agents capable of reasoning and 
coding. Founded in October 2022, Imbue secured $210 million in Series B funding at a $1 billion 
valuation, with backing from industry leaders including NVIDIA, the Alexa Fund, and former Google 
CEO Eric Schmidt. 


