INCITS Response to  the Request for Information on the 
Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Submission filed by Jennifer Garner on behalf of the InterNational Committee for 
Information Technology Standards (INCITS)  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.


 
INCITS Response  to the Request for Information on the 
Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
 
The InterNational Committee for Information Technology Standards ( INCITS ) welcomes 
the opportunity to respond to this RFI regarding the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan.  INCITS is a v oluntary, industry -led standards  setting 
organization that  assist s U.S. companies in accessing markets world -wide, reducing 
costs while being responsive to customer requirements.  
INCITS has led the international standardization system for AI for nearly a decade, and 
it has led in information technology standards since 1961. INCITS stakeholders from 
industry, government and civil society represent U .S. positions on technical and safety 
standards.  
INCITS 
INCITS is the U.S. National Body representative to the  ISO/IEC  Joint Technical 
Committee 1 (JTC 1), which is a committee of the International Standards Organization 
(ISO) and the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) that is chartered to 
develop standards in the field of information technology. INCITS membe rs include U.S. 
industry, government, and academic participants who work together to create the 
building blocks for globally transformative technologies including artificial intelligence. 
INCITS  is accredited by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) and is 
affiliated with the Information Technology Industry Council  (ITI), a policy advocacy 
organization that represents U.S. and global innovation companies.  
Over 1,600 U.S. experts from INCITS member organizations participate in JTC 1 policy, 
governance, and standards activities within the U.S. , internationally , and in many other 
standards development organizations.  This includes over 225 U.S. experts who 
participate in AI -focused standards topics. The U.S. holds  over 35 of the over 100 
leadership positions in ISO/IEC JTC 1, including the  leadership of  JTC 1 and of JTC 1’s 
Subcommittee (SC) 42 on Artificial Intelligence.  
Development of AI Technical Standards  
The INCITS/Artificial Intelligence committee represents U.S. interests in the  
international standards committee  ISO/IEC JTC 1 /SC 42 Artificial Intelligence.  Through 
the INCITS/Artificial Intelligence Committee, over 225 U.S. experts out of more than 800 
global experts participate in AI -focused standards topics.  These U.S. experts represent  
over 49 U.S. companies  (from startups to U.S. companies with multi -trillion dollar 
market caps ), government, and academics that participate in the development of a wide 
range of technical standards relating to AI, including in the areas identified in the RFI.  


- 
ISO/IEC JTC 1/ SC 42 serves as the focus and proponent for ISO/IEC JTC 1's 
standardization program  on Artificial Intelligence.  ISO/IEC JTC 1/ SC 42 is scoped to 
promote standardization in the area of Artificial Intelligence.  U.S. participation in 
ISO/IEC JTC 1/ SC 42 supports a holistic ecosystem approach for AI standardization. 
This approach takes into account  the use of technology to develop technical 
requirements by looking at both technology capability and emerging non -technical 
trends and requirements. Moreover, the horizontal and foundational deliverables that 
ISO/IEC JTC 1/ SC 42 already produces can bridge innovation communities such as 
application development organizations, research, and open -source communities  – as 
identified in the RFI .  
ISO/IEC JTC 1/ SC 42’s standardization efforts  focus on : 
•foundational standards;
•data;
•trustworthiness;
•use cases and applications;
•computational approaches ;
•computational characteristics of AI systems ;
•governance of AI;
•testing of AI -based systems;
•AI-enabled health informatics ;
•functional safety;
•natural language processing;
•sustainability; and
•testing and conformity assessment.
U.S. experts from INCITS  actively shape  development of published AI standards  and 
the standards currently under development. Examples of the published AI standards 
include AI concepts and terminology ; framework for AI systems using machine learning ; 
bias in AI systems and AI aided decision making; governance  implications on the use of 
AI by organizations;  overview of computational approaches for AI systems; and 
guidance on AI risk management.  
* * *
INCITS appreciates the Administration’s recognition of the importance of American 
leadership in technical AI standards and  supports the inclusion of technical AI standards 
as a component of the proposed AI Action Plan. INCITS looks forward to contributing its 
AI expertise in these efforts however possible.  


