Intuit Comments on OSTP RFI on Development of an 
Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
March 15, 2024 
Re: OSTP RFI on Development of an AI Action Plan 
ATTN: Faisal D’Souza 
Technical Coordinator National Coordination Of ﬁce 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development 
National Science Foundation 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or con ﬁdential information. Document contents may be reused 
by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents 
without attribution. 
Dear Mr. D’Souza, 
Intuit welcomes the opportunity to provide comments informing the Trump 
Administration’s development of a new AI Action Plan. We appreciate this 
administration’s early and proactive involvement of industry leaders like Intuit in this 
process, which we believe is crucial for the United States to sustain and enhance 
America’s global AI dominance to promote human ﬂourishing, economic 
competitiveness, and national security. 
In this submission, we describe (i) how Intuit uses AI to help 8 million American small 
and mid-market businesses not only survive, but grow and thrive; (ii) our approach to 
responsible AI governance; and (iii) our perspectives on the highest-priority topics for 
the Trump Administration to focus its AI Action Plan on to maximize the success of its 
AI policy goals. 
This RFI rightly calls attention to several AI policy topics – all of which we agree are 
important to securing America’s place as the AI innovation capital of the world. Our 
submission will focus on those policy areas that are most impactful to Intuit’s 
consumer, and small and mid-market business customers.  These recommendations 
are based on our years of experience building an AI powered platform to help level 1 


the playing ﬁeld for American small businesses and help power ﬁnancial prosperity 
for consumers. 
We believe the AI Action Plan should address the following policy topics as well: 
●Support for American small and mid-market businesses access to AI powered
technology to power the economy
●Avenues for public-private collaboration on AI policy development
●Reducing compliance costs and burdens to American AI innovators caused by
regulatory fragmentation at the state level
●AI Literacy efforts to educate and provide access to tools that can boost
economic growth and efﬁciency
In sum, we support a risk-based, context-speci ﬁc approach to AI policy that offers 
appropriate protections against unintended consequences while avoiding labeling 
and regulating entire sectors as high-risk. To maintain America’s global leadership, we 
also believe that sound AI policy needs to help increase AI adoption by consumers 
and small businesses, and foster innovation and competition that beneﬁts US 
households and small businesses. 
About Intuit 
Intuit is a global ﬁnancial technology platform that believes everyone should have the 
opportunity to prosper. We never stop working to ﬁnd innovative ways to make that 
possible. Serving approximately 100 million customers worldwide with small 
businesses productivity tools such as Quickbooks and Mailchimp, and personal 
ﬁnance products  TurboTax and Credit Karma, Intuit helps put more money in 
consumers’ and small businesses' pockets, saving them time by eliminating work, and 
ensuring they have conﬁdence in every decision they make.  
For over a decade, Intuit has been innovating with data and AI to help consumers and 
small businesses make smart ﬁnancial decisions, with less work and complete 
conﬁdence, enabling them to put more money in their pockets. Six years ago, we 
declared our strategy to be an AI-driven expert platform: an open, trusted, and 
easy-to-build-on platform from which we and our partners solve the most pressing 
customer problems and deliver awesome experiences. We’re transforming from a tax 
and accounting platform, where consumers and small businesses have to do the 
work, to a global ﬁnancial technology platform, where we do the hard work for them 
to fuel their success. 
2 


 
How Intuit is Using AI to Help Small and Mid-Market Businesses and Consumers 
AI is a powerful tool that has long been used by large corporations to provide 
data-driven insights and create business ef ﬁciencies. We believe AI can help level the 
playing ﬁeld for small businesses and consumers by optimizing ef ﬁciency and 
granting insights previously only available to large ﬁrms. Intuit’s AI-enabled tools help 
automate repetitive tasks and generate personalized insights that enable consumers 
and small businesses to make more money with less work, and have more conﬁdence 
in their decisions. Much of our AI functions as decision-support systems, helping both 
our customers and the experts who serve them make insightful decisions. 
Intuit has been incorporating AI in its products for over a decade. Some examples of 
classic AI (i.e., non-GenAI use cases) we use include:  
● Leveraging machine learning to build algorithms that learn from rich datasets 
to transform user experiences (UX)  
● Applying knowledge engineering to turn compliance rules into code 
● Using natural language processing to revolutionize how customers interact 
with products and services 
In September 2023, we introduced Intuit Assist, a GenAI assistant that provides 
personalized, intelligent recommendations to help consumer and small business 
customers make smart ﬁnancial decisions with less work and more con ﬁdence, 
enabling them to put more money in their pockets. Intuit Assist has been integrated 
into all of Intuit’s products (QuickBooks, Mailchimp, Credit Karma and TurboTax), 
putting next-generation AI in the hands of consumers and small and mid-market 
businesses. 
Small and Mid-Market Businesses 
As re ﬂected in our  2025 Intuit QuickBooks Small Business Index Annual Report, US 
small businesses make more extensive use of digital tools than other countries 
surveyed, but run middle-of-the-pack in terms of how frequently they make use of AI. 
US small businesses were also the most likely to ﬁnd AI very helpful in boosting their 
productivity. To help further boost their productivity, we are committed to putting AI 
tools in the hands of all small businesses, including increasing adoption by US small 
businesses. Some examples of how our small business customers use AI include:  
● QuickBooks Cash Flow Management- Leveraging small businesses’ bill 
payments, projected invoicing, and other data, QuickBooks uses AI to predict 
cash ﬂow. This helps small business owners make decisions more con ﬁdently, 
3 


such as whether they can hire additional help, buy a new piece of equipment, 
or pay off a loan. Now, we’re taking cash ﬂow management to the next level 
with agentic AI “done-for-you” experiences in production on our platform. 
Agentic AI work ﬂows are now doing the hard work on behalf of customers by 
dynamically processing accounts receivable and accounts payable invoices 
with Intuit QuickBooks Online. This includes when an invoice reminder is 
created for customer review based on relevant documents and  key insights 
from past history, leading to small businesses getting paid an average of 5 
days faster. ●Intuit Assist for Mailchimp - Intuit Assist has allowed MailChimp users to use
GenAI to help create marketing emails, which reduces the burden associated
with creating marketing copy and lets small businesses easily drag and drop
their content into emails sent to their customers. With AI, Intuit Assist helps
them create an entire marketing campaign based on a brand’s identity and
marketing intent, targeted toward a speciﬁc audience, always with human
review. Intuit Assist-created personalized automations are 50% more likely to
be activated by customers.
●Intuit QuickBooks Capital - Many QuickBooks customers are typically
underserved by traditional lenders and banks because they have been in
business for less than two years and therefore lack the revenue or credit history
to gain access to the capital they need. QuickBooks Capital's credit modeling
processes, powered by machine learning, uses alternative data such as
business cash ﬂow, debt, receivables, and payables to assess the
creditworthiness of small businesses seeking a loan. As required by law, if a
customer is not approved for a small business loan through the QuickBooks
Capital platform, an explanation of the factors that went into the decision is
provided to the customer.●Intuit Enterprise Suite - Provides real-time data insights that drive faster
business decisions. This includes access to a breadth of industry-speci ﬁc
reports and AI-powered ﬁnancial planning and analysis and project pro ﬁtability
capabilities that allow a business to set and manage goals, spot if a project is
off track, and receive a diagnosis with recommendations on how to get a
project back to proﬁtability.
●Other Uses - Intuit has also developed AI tools for small businesses that help
match small business owners with accounting experts; detect errors in
estimates; generate a comprehensive customer call summary for call support
personnel; and read, extract, and identify key pieces of information in
QuickBooks Online. All of these features help small businesses eliminate
mundane tasks and focus on running their business.
4 


Consumers 
AI helps our products provide consumers with personalized ﬁnancial insights and 
recommendations as well as explain complex tax laws and regulations to help 
consumers fully understand their tax situations. 
●Intuit Assist for Credit Karma - Today, Intuit Assist in Credit Karma helps
provide context as our members learn more about their credit scores and
ﬁnancial products in a highly personalized way. This includes helping members
ﬁnd ways they could improve their credit score and gain insight into their
spending habits.
●Product Development - We also apply AI to product development, to speed
up the development process to get our tax software to market each year with
the latest tax codes and maximum accuracy. AI helps us to convert the massive
and complex 80,000 pages of the U.S. Federal tax code into an application that
simpliﬁes the process for our customers.
●Maximize Tax Refunds - TurboTax uses AI to help customers get the
maximum refund they deserve and save time with tax prep by personalizing
the experience for their unique tax situation. This can save users up to 40
percent of tax prep time and signiﬁcant document retrieval effort. And, for
those who do itemize, TurboTax uses data analysis and machine learning to
identify and recommend deductions.
●Intuit Assist for TurboTax - Intuit Assist uses a combination of the company’s
decades of tax prep experience, tax data and documents from the ﬁler, and
current tax code to deliver a more seamless tax prep experience, with
proactive insights and advice and real-time checks for accuracy and
completeness so taxpayers can ﬁle with complete con ﬁdence that they are
getting their best possible outcome. Additionally, the ExplainWhy feature
helps tax ﬁlers understand how their refund was calculated.
Our Responsible AI Governance 
At Intuit, we understand the tremendous potential AI has to help solve some of 
society’s greatest challenges. We believe AI should be designed and used 
responsibly to help people. 
All Intuit products are built according to our strong commitment to data privacy, 
security and responsible AI governance. Intuit safeguards customer data and protects 
privacy using industry-leading technology and practices, and adheres to Responsible 
AI Principles that guide how we operate and scale our AI-driven expert platform 
5 


 
responsibly and with our customers' best interests in mind. We put these principles 
into practice through a holistic AI governance framework that includes actions like 
executive level oversight, risk based review and testing, training and awareness 
across Intuit, and more.  
Policy Recommendations 
Ensure Small Businesses Are Represented In AI Policy Discussions. As the Trump 
Administration de ﬁnes a new approach to fostering American innovation to promote 
human ﬂourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security, small businesses 
need to have a seat at the table. Small businesses form the backbone of the American 
economy, and the AI Action Plan should re ﬂect this by advancing policies designed to 
fuel their growth by putting AI in the hands of entrepreneurs. 
Helping small businesses bridge the digital divide by modernizing resources and 
technology literacy programs will help unlock the power of AI to make American 
small businesses more competitive. Public policy should be updated to help small 
businesses grow and ultimately, level the playing ﬁeld. AI policy to support small 
businesses should focus on three areas: 
● AI Literacy - Small businesses stand to bene ﬁt immensely from AI technology 
but do not know where to turn for resources that help them understand the 
risks and beneﬁts of AI. 61% of small businesses surveyed say they would not 
be con ﬁdent to use GenAI tools for their business without training or guidance. 
Target programs for small businesses with collaboration from the public and 
private sectors to help them both understand the evolving world of AI and 
compete more effectively. ● Right-sized Resourcing - Small business government programs and funding 
often do not prioritize or support emerging technologies as a permissible use 
of loan funds, grants, and technical assistance. Modernize existing small 
business resource programs to ensure they provide for small businesses’ 
emerging technology needs. ● Ensuring Small Businesses Have a Voice - Small businesses are often an 
afterthought in landmark policy debates. Yet the correlation between digital 
adoption and small business success is clear; studies show 84% of small 
businesses using more than 6 technology platforms saw an increase in proﬁts, 
82% saw an increase in sales, and 74% increased their employment compared 
to their low-technology-adopter peers. AI has the potential to tip the scale in 
favor of small businesses, they need a seat at the table. Ensure small 
6 


businesses have a voice and a seat at the table for any new regulatory 
frameworks on emerging technology. 
Establish Public-Private Partnerships, Forums, and other Convening Spaces to 
Inform AI Policy. AI is already evolving at break-neck speeds which will only 
accelerate under a successfully-executed AI Action Plan. To leverage the expertise 
and experience of those at the forefront of AI, the Trump Administration should 
establish and maintain information pipelines between itself and non-government 
experts to remain well-informed on AI developments as they occur and respond 
when applicable. The AI Action Plan should therefore create or utilize existing 
convening spaces (e.g., the US AI Safety Institute and Consortium) to allow industry – 
including small and mid-size businesses – to provide input and more proactively 
adapt AI policies to ensure America’s sustained AI dominance in the years to come. Maintain and Enhance America’s Status as a Global AI Standards Leader. In 2019, 
President Trump launched the American AI Initiative, laying the foundation on top of 
which the United States has established itself as the global leader in AI innovation and 
responsible governance. For example, NIST’s AI Risk Management Framework, which 
began development during the ﬁrst Trump Administration, has been cited and 
emulated by some of the world’s biggest AI economies, contributing greatly to 
international regulatory harmonization efforts following a uniquely American 
perspective. 
To keep this momentum, the AI Action Plan must not only provide for investment, 
research, and development of new AI standards as the technology evolves, but also 
lay out a strategy to promote American AI standards and governance best practices 
internationally. Doing so is crucial to achieving greater international regulatory 
harmonization for companies doing business in multiple countries. Conversely, 
pulling back from international AI engagements would allow other governments to ﬁll 
the void, such as the EU and China. Many of the areas the Trump Administration 
should prioritize are mentioned in this RFI, including cybersecurity, data privacy, and 
intellectual property. The AI Action Plan should  continue the work done to ensure 
that America deﬁnes the rules of the road for AI standards and governance best 
practices in these areas, and promotes their adoption internationally. 
Minimize Regulatory Compliance Burdens for American Companies by Passing 
Federal Privacy. Data is critical to powering AI systems, but the lack of a federal 
privacy standard has resulted in a patchwork of differing state privacy laws creating 
confusion for consumers and compliance challenges for businesses. As of March 
2025, 19 states have adopted comprehensive data privacy laws. Small businesses in 
7 


particular do not have access to a team of lawyers to stay apprised of how to comply 
with multiple state requirements leaving them at a disadvantage to their larger 
competitors. To drive AI innovation in America, we need a federal privacy law that 
preempts these state-level laws and sets a uniform privacy standard across the US. 
The risk of a patchwork of state AI legislation is also growing. At least three states 
have passed AI legislation and more than 500 AI bills have been introduced in 2025 
thus far. The Administration can continue to support voluntary frameworks, such as 
the AI Risk Management Framework, that guide and incentivize companies to 
develop AI governance programs to help alleviate some state concerns about 
company AI practices. We also encourage exploring opportunities that would help 
avoid a larger patchwork of state AI legislation and help support continued AI 
innovation for American businesses.  Ensure any AI regulation takes a risk based approach. Any AI policy framework 
must be risk-based to ensure that the majority of businesses utilizing AI in low risk use 
cases are not subjected to the same requirements as may be necessary for the most 
sensitive use-cases. When considering what constitutes high risk, it’s important to 
avoid labeling entire sectors—such as all ﬁnancial services or healthcare—as high risk 
to ensure consumers and small businesses can bene ﬁt from low or no risk AI-enabled 
innovations. This will ensure any new requirements build upon existing, 
well-established regulatory and enforcement frameworks, focus on the uses with the 
greatest potential for harm, and avoid duplicative legal obligations. Such an 
approach will help provide certainty to consumers, and large and small businesses.  
Clearly Distinguish Responsibilities for Different AI Actors. The AI ecosystem is 
diverse, with developers, deployers, and users all playing a role in responsible AI use. 
These roles should be acknowledged in any new policies and responsibilities should 
be allocated appropriately. This includes distinguishing between companies that 
deploy ﬁne-tuned AI products built on third-party LLMs, and developers of 
foundation models that train their AI on much larger, more generalized datasets. 
Delineating roles and responsibilities among different actors, including the sharing of 
speciﬁc types of model information and other transparency data, enhances AI 
explainability and provides greater assurance of AI model outputs.To implement 
effective safety policies, it is important for all these actors to work together and have 
clear roles to maintain responsible AI systems.  A consistent and level playing ﬁeld for 
all entities developing, deploying, and using AI is essential. 
--- 
8 


We appreciate the opportunity to provide Intuit’s point of view on an AI Action Plan, 
especially the importance of AI to small businesses. We are available to provide additional 
information and look forward to continuing our engagement with the Administration on this 
topic.    
Sincerely,  
Michael Kennedy 
Chief Corporate Affairs Of ﬁcer 
699 14th St. NW, Suite 800 
Washington, District of Columbia 20005 
9 


