Subject: AI Action Plan – Response from IsAdvice & Consulting LLC  1 Subject: AI Action Plan – Response  
Response To: OSTP AI Action Plan Team  
Email: 
Attn: Faisal D’Souza, NCO  
2415 Eisenhower Ave,  
Alexandria Va 22314  
From: Pamela K. Isom  
Founder & CEO, IsAdvice & Consulting LLC  
March  15, 2025  
Statement of Disclosure: This document is approved for public dissemination. The 
document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and 
associated documents without attribution.  
Dear Faisal, OSTP and NITRD NCO Team,  
On behalf of IsAdvice & Consulting LLC, I express my gratitude for the opportunity to 
contribute to the AI Action Plan  in support of Executive Order 14179 ( Removing 
Barriers to American leadership in Artificial Intelligence ). As a former Senior Executive 
Service member  in the U.S. government, an AI engineering , governance,  and 
cybersecurity leader, and the CEO of a small business specializing in enterprise IT 
modernization with AI innovation that drives mission impact, I strongly support a 
strategic approach to an AI action plan that fuses data management and cybersecurity. 
A summary of our recommendations follows, and we are extending an offer to 
elaborate in more depth:  
1.Lightweight  Governance and Break ing Down Agency Silos
a.Develop a federated AI and Data Strategy with a n empowering  governance
framework to enhance cross -agency collaboration, knowledge reuse and
efficiency, and idea exploration, fueling the mission  to keep the US leading in
AI innovations.
b.Create more pathways to product commercialization.
2.AI Security for National Security


Subject: AI Action Plan – Response from IsAdvice & Consulting LLC  2 a.AI security must be a central pillar of the AI Action Plan to mitigate
adversarial threats such as, but not limited to, data poisoning, AI model
manipulation, and unauthorized deepfake utilization.
b.Develop AI security & cybersecurity professional development and training
for government personnel that encompasses AI red teaming , blockchain,
crypto 101,  and Independent Test & Evaluation.
c.Enhance AI Threat intelligence and public -private collaboration, sharing
across agencies so that all take part in defending and protecting U.S.
national security.
3.Enterprise AI Innovation for long -term Modernization & Impact
a.Shift to enterprise -wide AI modernization programs with shorter term AI pilots
leveraged as means to an end.
b.Embrace and p ublish operationalization playbooks, outlining best practices
for AI deployment, monitoring and techniques  to ensure that investments
translation into accurate , real mission impact.
4.Leverage small businesses and their expertise. The entrepreneurial spirit of small
businesses with AI /ML program leadership , AI/cybersecurity and the willingness to
drive IT modernization will accelerate innovation, and the deployment of AI -powered
solutions that are agile, cost -effective and matter to citizens  and the US
Government . Establish creative mechanisms for small businesses to thrive and
maximize government contributions.
Final Thoughts  
A federated research  program, a lightweight and empowering governance strategy, 
security -focused AI innovations, and cross -agency IT modernization programs  are key to 
maintaining America’s leadership in AI and emerging technology. We are looking forward 
to the outcomes of this RFI and we are excited and hopeful  to engage in next steps.  
Thank you,  
Pamela K. Isom  


