From: JACK HASELDINE
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Sunday, March 16, 2025 12:06:59 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Hello,
As a student doing a Masters in Artificial Intelligence at MTU in Ireland (I am a citizen, don't
worry), I cannot stress enough how absolutely terrible of an idea it would be for AI to not be
heavily regulated and restricted in what data it can be trained on and what applications it canbe used for.
It has zero place whatsoever in any kind of creative field, and is nowhere near as effective or
capable as its proponents would have you believe, especially not when the energyconsumption is taken into account.
AI companies should, if anything, be held to even more strict scrutiny on matters of copyright
than other companies because it is so incredibly difficult to be sure what was used withoutsome degree of co-operation from them and realistically they will refuse to give that co-operation unless they are forced to.
It is a tech-based bubble, similar to the previous dotcom bubble, and will
 inevitably go under
at some point in the near future, which would make this carve-out embarrassing at best and
economically disastrous at worst.
While there are valid uses for the underlying technology, those do not require this kind of
carve-out in any way and will continue to be worked on even if the main well-known AIcompanies go under entirely because the useful uses for AI have very little overlap with the
anti-creative garbage that is most of what the big companies are doing and promoting.
This law is functionally indistinguishable from a housing company in a district where theft of
building materials is not yet illegal trying to get themselves a carveout because they've cut somany corners and funnelled so much money to their executives that being able to outrightsteal the materials they work with is the only way they can avoid going bankrupt, and thatthey can't possibly be expected to pay for them! Leaving out, of course, that they very
probably could
 afford to do so by cutting back heavily on executive spending and bonuses or
on stock buybacks or the like.
This will provide no benefit whatsoever to the USA, and will in fact actively hamper our


creative growth as creators - especially smaller creators - would be discouraged from creating
if AI companies can simply take their work with no compensation and the resulting AIs can be
used to generate derivative works that benefit from their creativity with, again, nocompensation. Further, this will stifle actual economic growth by concentrating even morewealth and economic power in the bank accounts of corporations that already collectivelyhave far too much rather than in the hands of people who would actually use it meaningfully.
In summary, there is no good reason why this should pass into being as any kind of law, grant,
exemption, or legal entity of any kind, save to line the pockets of AI companies by letting themnot pay for copyrighted materials.Thank you,Jack Haseldine
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


