From: Jacqueline Spence
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Monday, March 17, 2025 9:21:07 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Good morning,
My name is Jacqueline Spence, I'm a citizen of the United States of America, born and raised
in New Jersey, currently living in San Antonio, Texas.
I have grave concerns with the proposed Artificial Intelligence Action Plan, specifically with
how it threatens the livelihood of the American people and threatens the standard of Americanexcellence that President Trump reportedly wants to bolster.
1. The Deterioration of the American Job MarketThough companies may claim that AI investments are made to improve efficiency, in reality
the majority of AI investment decisions at major companies were made to replace humanworkers. Meta, Google, and other major tech companies have laid off large amounts of humanworkers in favor of "streamlined" AI processes, and if we look beyond the tech sector, AI isthreatening to replace or has already replaced millions of American workers.
For example:
With the rise of AI transcription softwares such as Gong and Otter.ai, job opportunities
for human notetakers, administrative assistants, secretaries, etc. are near non-existent.
With the rise in AI and Self-Service order takers at restaurants and retail, jobopportunities for service works are decreasing year over year.
For higher-level jobs, such as sales team members, companies like Artisan AI offer AIBDRs, threatening to eliminate the title totally in just a few years.
With the cost of Higher Education on the rise, and minimum wage positions being eliminatedslowly but surely, I ask you what jobs will be left for the American people impacted by therise of AI, as not everyone can be a mechanic, a hair-dresser, a carpenter... and who's to say anenterprising tech executive isn't already looking to "improve the efficiency" of those positionstoo?
2. Lack of Transparency, Security, and Exclusivity of Data Shared with AI Engines for
Corporations
With the rise of AI technologies being offered to help streamline a corporation's business, so
long as you allow them access to the right data, what laws are there to prevent thesecompanies from analyzing a corporation's CRM system, Accounting System, and othervarious databases and using that data to create their own solution, or worse, use onecorporation's data to improve their competitor's strategy?
For example:


ZoomInfo, one of the largest sales enablement tools, is now offering their AI
functionality CoPilot. At its most effective, ZoomInfo's CoPilot needs total access to acompany's CRM system in order for its AI to provide guidance and form strategies for asales person's outreach. That means: reading support tickets, reading customer emails,reading CSM notes, any and all of the final details that makes up a corporation's salesstrategy and so much more.
There is nothing save for a "don't use our data for this" email, lengthy and expensivecontract negotiation processes, and having to invest in a high level data security team toconstantly monitor the data ZoomInfo is accessing to ensure that ZoomInfo is not usingthis data to train their AI or are using this data to help competitors find ways to takedown the competition.
If the AI Action Plan is to go through, rigorous regulations must be deployed at the federallevel to protect corporations.
3. Downgrade in Quality of American Entertainment Leading to an Increase in Foreign
Entertainment Markets
For hundreds of years American Entertainment has been the pinnacle of cultural media.
However, since the rise of AI and chase of profits over product by large entertainmentcompanies, America's spot at the top of the entertainment food chain is threatened. AmericanEntertainment companies, rather than investing in great, human, American creators, wouldrather use AI for scriptwriting, animation, acting even, and when unsurprsingly the AI mediacreated is not well recieved by their audience or subscriber base, they turn not to Americancreators, but Foreign Markets for "better" media.
Turn on any major streaming service or even tradtionial television, and you'll see that the top
shows are no longer American-made, but come from South Korea, Mexico, Canada, and theUnited Kingdom where AI has very little to do with entertainment and instead shows are madeby human creatives.
In conclusion, while AI can have it's benefits, with what have seen from the corporations
toting it, in its current state AI is not being used to bolster American Progress but is insteadthreatening it. If the goal is to make American great, launching this plan without regulationsand due diligence will turn our country into a destitute laughing stock.
Best,Jacqueline Spence
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


