This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
To be brief: the entire point  of copywright law is to make it so that if you take the time and put in the 
work to create something, you can put it out into the world and profit off it without fear that someone 
with access to more time and resources will see it, agree that it’s good, and then flood the market with 
replicas and drown you. Your work should pay off,  and if you use someone else’s work to make your 
product, you should pay them for it.
Generative AI should not get a pass, here. If you have to have a license to use an image directly, you 
should need a license specifically  to feed that image to a machine learning model, as well – it’s a 
sufficiently different use-case, a general-purpose license should not cover it. You are generating profit 
off of someone else’s work – if the model cannot provide a catalog of the images used to train it, as 
well as appropriate liscencing for all of them, then it’s output should be assumed to be in violation of 
copywright law for commercial use.
If generative AI firms, as a business, cannot continue to operate as they have under such a ruleset – 
then the technology is not yet industry-viable. The fact that something is possible, and has been done,  
has no relation to whether or not it should be legal. Legalizing theft could open many job opportunities 
and feed many impoverished families – but the cons outweigh said pros, to most. GenAI has been built 
to the place it currently resides on the backs of millions  of hours worth of unpaid, unliscensed and 
unwilling work. Under the current legal framework, it is a system for destroying livelyhoods to produce 
cheap knock-offs and mountains of ecological waste.
In short, the fundamental technology behind generative AI is not a bad thing. It does represent 
remarkable possibilities, eventually.  But the existing business practices surrounding it are the result of a 
completely unregulated environment, and as such are as harsh and harmful to the average citizen as is 
possible under general law.  The fact that they have been  allowed up to this point does not mean they 
should be the baseline going forward – the behavior displayed and harm caused should be the reason  
for, and guidelines on, what must be restricted and why. We have evidence, now, of the harm the 
industry can and will do, at steadily increasing scale,  if not subjected to actual regulation equivalent to 
every other industry.
Thank you for your time.


