From: Jan Garth
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] Response to AI Action Plan RFI - Department of Labor Role
Date: Thursday, March 13, 2025 2:21:51 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Artificial intelligence, specifically generative AI, holds significant potential to revolutionize
work, and the likely benefits of this technological revolution for employers are clear. Howeverthe impacts of AI on the American workforce are a critical consideration as the governmentcrafts an AI Action Plan. Current estimates suggest between 5%-47% of American jobs maybe affected by widespread automation via AI. While the body of research from which theseestimates draw suggests that much remains unknown about how AI will reshape the Americanlabor force, the overarching consensus is that AI will reshape the nature of work, and the skillsrequired to obtain and maintain quality jobs.
The federal government’s AI Action Plan can play a central role in ensuring that agencies arestrategically positioned to both anticipate shifts in labor supply and demand and that agenciesare able to swiftly respond to these shifts with reskilling and upskilling initiatives that serve todeepen America’s impact on the AI landscape and enhance its competitiveness in the globaleconomy.
The United States’ Department of Labor’s Employment and Training Administration (ETA)has a long history of providing workforce development training and resources to American jobseekers throughout the United States and is uniquely positioned to predict and respond toemergent labor market changes with an aim to put the American worker first. ETA leveragesits tested experience with building coalitions with educational institutions, proven anddemonstrated development of employer-informed partnerships which have resulted incomprehensive curricula for emerging industries, and brings a strategic vantage point throughits integration with workforce data, trends, and analysis.
EXISTING TOOLS AND STRATEGIES
ETA administers (and supports states in administering) federal programs to empower
American workers in the face of new technologies, including government job training,programs to support displaced workers and communities facing significant job losses,federal grants to states for public employment service programs, and UI programs.
Services are available to workers and businesses through a network of nearly 2,300American Job Centers nationwide.
With adequate resources, the Department’s current and historical programs can serve asimportant building blocks for addressing staggered, ongoing displacement and mass


displacement, and training the AI workforce of the future. 
Preventing Displacement
To win the future, organizations that prepare workers will need to invest in AI fluency
and tech expertise for program participants and will need to be intentional about servingyoung adults.
ETA has the WIOA Youth Program and in competitive grant programs that provideyouth participants with opportunities for career exploration and skill developmentthrough1) summer employment opportunities (2) pre-apprenticeship programs; (3)internships and job shadowing; and (4) on-the-job training.
The Youth Systems Building Academy seeks to leverage the capacity of youthorganizations to deploy innovative approaches, incorporate data and youth feedback andalign local partners and investments to improve the supportive ecosystem for youngpeople navigating the workforce.
Youth Build is a community-based pre-apprenticeship program that provides jobtraining and educational services for opportunity youth ages 16 to 24 who left schoolwithout a secondary diploma, providing connections to apprenticeship opportunities inthe building trades, including emerging technologies such as AI. Adverse impacts of AIon workers’ jobs are not inevitable and employers and businesses can proactivelypartner with the workforce system to prevent disruption among their workforces.
The Department promotes Layoff Aversion strategies that support employers as they
seek to retain and retrain incumbent workers for new roles through employer servicesand work-based learning opportunities, such as on-the-job training (OJT), RegisteredApprenticeships, and incumbent worker training (IWT).
 Supporting Workers Displaced by AI
ETA has existing tools that can start to address staggered, ongoing displacement andpotential swift, mass displacement caused by AI. These programs provide Americanworkers with a critical safety net when they lose their job.
WIOA’s Dislocated Worker program is particularly well suited to serve individualsspecifically displaced by AI. The Dislocated Worker program is designed to helpdislocated workers get back to work as quickly as possible and overcome barriers toemployment by providing services to assist those workers in re-entering the workforce.
ETA promotes cyber and AI-related training through its competitive grant opportunities,including:
The Strengthening Community Colleges (SCC) Training Grants, which buildthe capacity of community colleges to address gaps that increase access toeducational and economic opportunities for all American workers.
The Apprenticeship Building America Grants Program, which is designed to
strengthen, modernize and expand the Registered Apprenticeship Program toenable more workers to earn while they learn and find reliable pathways to themiddle class.
The Building Pathways to Infrastructure Jobs Grant Program developsreplicable, comprehensive workforce strategies to
  prepare the workforce for
middle- to high-skilled H-1B occupations within sectors identified as havingpotential for significant AI-related exposure.
Swift, Mass Displacement 


Rapid Response  is a proactive and flexible strategy designed to respond to layoffs and
plant closings by quickly coordinating services and providing immediate aid to
companies and their affected workers, minimizing the disruptions to workers caused byjob loss.
“Employment Recovery” Dislocated Worker Grants  are made available to states,
Workforce Development Boards, Tribal governments, and similar eligible applicants totemporarily expand capacity to serve dislocated workers affected by major economicdislocations, such as plant closures, mass layoffs or closures of military bases.
Workers who lose their jobs due to AI-driven displacement may turn to state UI systemsto make ends meet while searching for new jobs. UI has long provided a critical safetynet for workers who have lost a job for good cause or through no fault of their own, andit will be one of the first lines of support for workers displaced by AI.
 Preparing the American Workforce System for an AI Economy
ETA has already begun to prepare the workforce system for the challenges andopportunities ahead, including challenges posed by AI.
Expanding Access to UI through Modernization and Improved CustomerExperience
ETA has published strategies and resources to help states responsibly deploytechnology and processes to improve service delivery, while also promotingaccess to benefits.
With the “earn-while-you-learn” model, which acknowledges employers as thedrivers of their hiring and training, Registered Apprenticeships are uniquelysituated to bring the potential for predictable and stable living wages to allmembers of local communities.
ETA's Job Corp provides a well-timed opportunity to prepare our nation’s youth whilebuilding an AI-ready workforce through modernized Job Corps training programs.
ETA should participate in the AI Action Plan through AI workforce impact studies, training  
impacted workers, and leveraging the agency's experience and network to put American  
workers in the best position to navigate the AI workforce landscape. 
J. Garth
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


