3/14/2025 v ia FD MS 
JD, no e mail 
Why are you continuing to give these parasites light treatment when they’re stealing everything 
they can get their hands on to replace it with cheap, lower grade slop that ruins every single place 
it touches? Did I miss t he declaration  that the current administration  of the United  States a re 
thieving communists? These A.I companies should already be in prison for large  scale th eft, no t 
asking the President to make it legal! The U.S.A creative industry t o my knowledge adds a value 
of $1.1 trillion to the U.S. economy, 4.3% of the country’s GDP. Yet the countr y is expecte d to 
side with people, one of which being a freak accused of fingering his own sister, who have failed 
to provide a nything  of worth?  Elites from Silicon V alley w ho’ve  filled the internet with 
unreliable data, pornography of all stripes, falsified photographs of the President sucking Elon 
Musk’s to es and  worse? And  that is just t he creative industry. What other areas of t he U.S.A  
economy will A.I companies, who have already proven to be worthless by themselves, destroy in 
the name of  profits th ey’ve  yet to make? T his doesn’t just affect pe ople with i ntellectual 
properties either, but anyone who wishes to show any type of photogra ph online for others to see. 
Why am I expecte d to share anything online, which was already a risky prospect before, if I have 
no legal right over what I present? Does the P resident and  others in gove rnment  like the idea of 
photographs of themselves being used for whatever purpose any person using A.I software 
wants? As a foreigner I c an say t his, i f the U.S.A  goes through w ith this pathetic idea to l et Open 
A.I and othe r companie s upend copyright, destr oy the creative industr y and wha t safety the 
internet has, then there is utterly nothing I’d want from y our country. Your creative expor ts will 
be machine generated s &^% not worth stealing, yet alone buying. God knows what other 
American industries or  services I’ll end up labelling  as wo rthless if this madness continues. I’m 
already wondering if I should leave my own country over the government considering a similar  
change in law. America is not going to attract me to it by doing the same. If China truly wants to 
become  a s%^&hole nation full of people incapable of doing anything whose main export is 
degenerative  pornography and lies, let them. But if President Trump and the United States wishes 
to have any respect in the world then they’ll tell these companies to obey the law like everyone 
else and produce something of actual value, not toys for the retarded that require large scale theft.  
Though the funny thing  there is, as f ar as I’m aware,  China has in f act placed rules and
theseregulations  comp aonnies. So they’ve done m ore to protect my rights than the United States or the United 
Kingdom  have as of  late. F rankly as far as I’m concerned these companies shoul dn’t b e allowed 
to use public domain at all. But if they do e xist, maybe the great A merica can at least i nsist they 
be created fairly without destroying large swaths of what made your country great? Or is 
President T rump and t he Republican Party  just the servants of West C oast, S ilicon  Valley el ites 
who’ll do as they’re told?


