From: jeneen beckett
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Cc: Lucky Beckett
Subject: [External] Open AI Action Plan Comment
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 11:58:54 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Sir or Madame,,
AI does not qualify as " fair use " which was an exception for educational uses which did not
require royalties. These companies are cheating copyright holders of their royalties to funneltheir workmanship into someone else's stolen profit.
A huge lawsuit was filed decades ago when Kinkos was creating composite "textbook like"
photocopies custom created by professors from individual articles from textbooks, and bindingthem. The courts determined that though the end purpose was to teach, the intermediarycompany and parties were making money, denying original publishers' profit.
As for the Chinese, we should have slammed lawsuits on the Chinese early on when they
allowed patent knock offs of machines which stripped profits from legit businesses. Time totake action for copyright holders today and make them comply with the 100 copyright treatiesin existence.
Radio stations use a clearinghouse system by logging bulk "traffic reports" of what music is
played when and then the clearinghouse aggregates royalties and sends them to artists.
You need to adopt such a system for AI.
  If these computers have the capacity to gobble up
that much data they have the capacity to notate the authors and make a list for royalties.
 Furthermore from what I have seen already in use of AI it does not always choose the right
meanings   it does not provide nuanced opinions and often is misleading... it's almost as if
you've handed a fourth grader an Encyclopedia Britannica and ask them to translate it.What is so egregious is for chest thumping Altman, a man who stands to make a fortune
stealing from hard working authors, to take such a priority in this decision making.
Stealing is stealing and AI is welcome to pay royalties for copyrighted materials.
 
Thank you,J.S. BeckettYahoo Mail: Search, Organize, Conquer




