From: Jessica MacPhail
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Sunday, March 16, 2025 2:53:33 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
I oppose this plan.  
"cybersecurity, data privacy and security throughout the lifecycle of AI system development
and deployment (to include security against AI model attacks), risks, regulation andgovernance, technical and safety standards, national security and defense, research anddevelopment, education and workforce, innovation and competition, intellectual property,procurement, international collaboration, and export controls."
AI can be a tremendous tool when properly vetted and overseen for errors. Released
unsupervised, I see many problems ahead.
Cybersecurity... opportunities for mis-reading other cultures whose language reflects different
thinking than traditional US language could cause problems which cannot be easily resolved.Who is reviewing the AI being used here?
Data privacy and security: I expect security breaches with AI which doesn't recognize all types
of names, especially since the DEI removal stupidity, many names are not traditional USnames and many people have changed their names to fit their identity. If AI is used to removeor identify these names, people will be harmed. If certain names are released in anunauthorized way, people will be harmed.
 
Risks: we can't even identify all the risks involved with AI. Studies have shown they containerrors an astounding percentage of the time. What guardrails are being put into place toidentify and correct these errors?
Regulation and governance: again, with the error rate being high, how are possible regulation
infractions going to be identified and corrected? With governance, I can imagine a mis-directed governance issue being incorrectly interpreted and causing harm to people.
 
Technical and safety standards: with the removal by the President of crucial safety standards, Idon't see any useful role for AI except counting bodies of people who have died due to unsafeconditions. Clean air and water are apparently not important to our current billionaires runningthe country. Technical standards, if not enforced correctly, can and will cause programs tocrash or run incorrectly. Who is keeping an eye on these important standards?
 
National security and defense are the last places to use AI, with the huge error rate of AIinterpretation.
 
Research and development can benefit from AI tremendously. These scientists (if they haven'tbeen fired by the shirt-sightrd and money-hingry administration) have been using AI for yearsand their methods of testing, reviewing, testing, reviewing, and sharing their results withpeers, asking for their reactions, are models of what AI is able to accomplish.


Education and workforce: this really concerns me after the President ordered the removal of  
any reference to supposed DEI people or programs, which have built a foundation that cannot  
be erased. AI could be used to reinstate those removals in another four years. 
Innovation and competition will be fertile grounds for AI, since, again, the use of AI will be  
carefully reviewed and supervised. 
Intellectual property must be preserved and protected for the human beings who create it. AI  
being used to imitate, for corporate greed, the creativity of human brains, is unacceptable. If,  
however, a new category for AI creations is developed, those activities can be viewed, read,  
listened to on their own merits and judged accordingly. 
AI can be used for procurement, and the errors will be caught through the ordering and  
receiving process. Anything ordered in error will be discovered. The returns process might be  
a nightmare but I expect human beings will eventually resolve most common errors. 
International collaboration using AI will be a joke. Mutual collaboration between different  
cultures is developed through relationships between human beings. Trust, which is fragile and  
easily broken, is grown over time with small activities and honest discussions. I cannot  
imagine that AI could be helpful here.
Export controls using AI will develop over time, after common errors are resolved. 
Thanks for letting me share my opinions.
Jessica MacPhail, she/hers
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


