Dr. Jessica Chambers Page 1
To ensure global leadership in technology, the United States needs to prioritize 
integrating Artificial Intelligence into our education system. Careers are evolving as new 
technology infiltrates every scientific industry. Students must understand how to use, develop and monitor AI systems. We must carefully implement policies at the federal level to standardize safe and ethical practices for AI used in schools. There is a global AI race, and we cannot win if our students don’t understand AI and the future STEM workforce is left behind.  
The US wants to remove all regulations to prevent barriers to AI innovation. It is critical 
to understand that having ethical regulations in place at the federal level help set the example for 
more private companies to create AI technology that can be used to teach children. Rapid AI development with no constraints can lead to the deployment of incorrect and unsafe data and information. Internet safety laws were pivotal for integrating computers into schools such as The Children’s Internet Protection Act (CIPA). Building public trust with legislation and compliance standards is crucial as we want it to be integrated into our daily lives. If there aren’t current standards for AI, a specific AI regulatory body within the National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST) should create an auditory process for AI tools used in schools.  
Using the lessons from previous advancements in technology like the rise of the internet, 
we should prevent exacerbating a digital divide where only schools in affluent areas have access to AI technology. Our country cannot discriminate against any students, so we must increase accessibility. To address this, the Department of Education should be directed to provide resources to title 1 schools.  
There also needs to be significant funding directed towards the training teachers. The 
Department of Energy is dedicated to supporting scientists and engineers and should sponsor 


Dr. Jessica Chambers Page 2
internships and appointments for educators that would assist their understanding of AI 
technology.  
Right now, China and the European Union are pushing ahead in implementing ethical 
regulations that encourage AI model transparency and bias auditing. If we don’t prioritize these goals - the AI developed in the US won’t be used abroad, our STEM workforce will not be competitive and we will fall behind other world leaders.  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution 


