1 
Submitted via email to 
March 14 , 202 5  
RE: J&J Response to  National Science Foundation request for information on behalf of the 
Office of Science and Technology Policy, requesting input on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI ) Action Plan .  
Dear Faisal D’Souza  and members of the National Coordination Office , 
Thank you for the opportunity to provide comments  on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (“Plan”) . We commend the Networking and Information Technology 
Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO), National Science 
Foundation  actions to consider input from varied stakeholders on the development of the Plan, 
as directed by a Presidential Executive Order on January 23, 2025, to define the priority policy 
actions needed to sustain and enhance America's AI dominance, and to ensure that 
unnecessarily burdensome requirements do not hamper private sector AI innovation.  We look 
forward to action on th ese crucial issue s for patient s, health care providers, and innovators 
across the healthcare ecosystem.  
At Johnson & Johnson, our people are driven by a passion to achieve the best version of health 
for everyone, everywhere, for as long as possible. In the next decade, we will see more 
transformation in health than in the past century – and we are ready to l ead the way. Focusing 
exclusively on transformational healthcare innovation allows us to move with purpose and 
speed to tackle the world’s toughest health challenges. Innovating across the full spectrum of 
healthcare solutions puts us in a unique position today to deliver the breakthroughs of tomorrow. 
Our strength in both biology and medical technology means we’re accelerating advances in care 
–from cell therapy to AI -assisted robotic surgery. We are using our wide range of expertise to
address healthcare challenges that can be tackled by both medical technology and innovative
medicine such as cancer, cardiovascular disease, and eye health. Our reach and depth across
a continuum of healthcare and technology solutions give J&J the ability to profoundly impact
health for humanity.
How We are Using AI 
At J&J, we are applying AI across our business, focusing on finding solutions to big questions 
and advancing our impact on patients. We believe AI, when used at scale, has the potential to 
accelerate our ability to advance human health , including around chronic diseases such as 
autoimmune and mental health disorders . AI allows us to analyze larger -than-ever data sets in 
ways never before possible to find patterns and trends that are helping to transform our 
innovation engine.  
Through AI and data science, we can better understand the drivers of diseases, transform how 
we innovate to create treatments, design more personalized healthcare for patients, and deliver 
efficiency and precision for clinicians and surgeons to improve med ical outcomes. We are using 
AI, leveraging de -identified data,  in a multitude of ways across our sectors :  


2 
Accelerating drug discovery: AI helps researchers to understand diseases better, find new 
targets, and design potential medicines faster. It can also speed up the processes of improving 
molecules or potential medicines around features that are hard to test in clinical trials, such as 
toxicity and immunogenicity.  
Increasing access to clinical trials: We are using machine learning (ML) algorithms to analyze 
real-world health data from resources like de -identified electronic medical records, labs, claims 
and imaging to identify and prioritize geographies and healthcare organizations where patients 
are be ing treated.  
Driving precision medicine: We are applying to AI and ML to data sets – from digital images to 
sound recordings – to identify novel biomarkers and clinical endpoints that can help us develop 
and deliver the right medicines for the right patients at the right time – across oncology, 
immunology and neuroscience.  
Predicting demand more accurately: Our digitally integrated system Advance Case 
Management uses these ML algorithms to predict demand more accurately for knee, hip and 
other joint surgical implants, to ensure these products are stocked when and where they’re 
needed.  
Analyzing health records with AI: We are deploying an AI -derived eye disease risk alert system 
to eye care offices, using electronic health records from more than 80 million patients to improve 
patient care and encourage referral of at -risk patients.  
Training surgeons with insights: In the operating room, surgical video is frequently taken during 
procedures to provide education, research, and quality improvement to medical professionals. 
We are training AI algorithms to create a “highlights reel” of these videos in a matter of minutes , 
so surgeons can re -watch significant events from their procedures. The goal is to use these 
enriched surgical videos to run algorithms to understand the behaviors, tactics and movements 
that create positive and negative o utcomes during surgery.  
Efficacy, Accuracy, and Transparency: Healthcare Considerations 
While it is undeniable that AI for healthcare offers numerous opportunities to improve patient 
care, there are significant opportunities to ensure that AI can be developed and deployed in a 
way that fosters trust and appropriate use across healthcare syste ms.  
Access to quality data : As data fuels AI, we need to access large enough data sets to train 
models. This requires rational approaches to determining data ownership, control, and 
governance structures. We must also consider the quality of the data sets. If data used to train 
the AI model has limitations and does not adequately represent the target population, one could 
have outputs that are not representative enough.  
Safeguarding Privacy : Another key element for safe, ethical, and transparent AI use is privacy. 
We operate in a highly regulated industry where we use a variety of types of data, including 
administrative and claims data, clinical data, genomic data, patient -generated data, surgical 
video, and social determinants of health data that move through a variety of transmission 
networks. This data is  essential to continued innovation, discovery, evaluation, and speed for 
the delivery of healthcare products and serv ices to patients and consumers.  


3 
We support adoption of a comprehensive national privacy law and associated standards to help 
ensure a more consumer - and patient - friendly approach to managing personal information 
while ensuring consistent privacy protections, allowing a greater flow of d ata, and maintaining 
adequate protections . A federal law would help reduc e variability across multiple governments 
and government agencies , consequently reducing regulatory costs and increasing 
competitiveness to attract investments .  
Reskilling and Upskilling for Workforces : As technologies like AI take hold, the skillsets needed 
to excel in healthcare are shifting. Healthcare professionals need to have a thorough 
understanding of digital technologies for healthcare systems to effectively guide patients.  
• We need investment in workforce skilling via lifelong learning programs and university
education, equipping the workforce with the reskilling and continued learning opportunities
required to embrace ongoing technological developments to maximize the positi ve impact of AI.
We also need more life science education and training programs to improve the application and
customization of technologies like AI to healthcare needs.
• Inclusive approaches must be considered in all aspects of AI, to include selecting the
issues to address/problems to solve using AI, and training and hiring a workforce  with varied
backgrounds to serve as  data scientists , programmers, attorneys, program managers , etc. We
believe that fostering participation across broad populations will help enable data generation
that simultaneously improves the authenticity of data sets and the inclusivity of data -driven
insights.
• We advocate for updates to curriculum from elementary through secondary schools to
account for new content to foster understanding of the technology and the soft skills required to
appropriately and responsibly use these new technologies and tools.
Ethical and Regulatory Considerations 
Ethics: We believe ethical considerations should be at the forefront of how we are applying AI 
models, and that regulation has a key role to promote the responsible and transparent usage of 
AI. Well -established practices and standards exist for demonstrating clini cal validity and utility 
and connecting these efforts to meaningful outcomes for patients. It is important to start by 
assessing the existing research practices used for creation of treatment guidelines and 
approvals of new therapies to assess any AI-related gaps.  
Rational Regulation : Recognizing the accelerated speed of AI continuous development, it is 
crucial to promote consensus -based standardization to assure a thriving and innovative 
ecosystem, avoiding a fragmented system that could hinder investment in innovation in the long 
term. We support federal law and regulations to foster consistency and predictability. Any policy 
regarding AI should have a clear scope and framework, facilitating implementation and avoiding 
complexity, to build trust between citizens, d evelopers, deployers and users and create a 
favorable environment that fosters medical innovation. 


4 
• Regulatory efforts should focus on a risk -based approach, a transparent framework for
compliance and enforcement and versality of regulation to promote innovation with the aim to
pursue fair, responsible, secure, and transparent use of AI. Effective implementation of any
regulatory approaches can be enhanced through thoughtful public -private partnerships and
creat ion of  ‘regulatory sandbox es’ to enabl e sharing of applications and foster cross -learning
and collaboration to solve complex issues or problems.
• Policy development should begin with an assessment of existing policies and
regulations, including applicable sector -specific laws and guidelines, such as the Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). Highly regulated sectors, li ke the
healthcare industry, have existing frameworks for addressing relevant risks (e.g., safety,
security, privacy), and these frameworks should be evaluated for their contribution and
applicability to AI. We also support leveraging internationally recogn ized standards such as  the
International Organization for Standardization (ISO).
• Overly strict AI regulations could stifle innovation in healthcare, hindering the
development and implementation of advanced AI -driven solutions, slowing down progress in
medical research and patient care. The risk increases when taking into consideration the
present and potential future lack of consistency across regulatory agencies (within a market at
the federal and state levels and across markets).
• Federal laws and regulations should provide liability protections when adherence to
regulatory requirements, such as those established by FDA, is demonstrated.   This will
encourage  use of  high-quality regulatory practices and advancement of trustworthy AI
applications.
• Misalignment across laws in different countries and/or states, leading to conflicting laws
and definitions, is a risk for long term investment in digital healthcare technology. Achieving
harmonization of AI regulations to facilitate the sharing of knowledg e and technologies across
borders is a complex but key challenge.
Access to AI -enabled technologies . Digital health technology is reshaping healthcare systems 
around the world, and innovation continues to move at a rapid pace. Digital health technologies 
-- tools, like software and mobile apps, are increasingly AI enabled and have potential to 
improve c are delivery, quality, and patient outcomes; however, predictable coverage and 
payment for these tools is not always obvious or available.  
As these technologies advance and come into more frequent use, changes may be needed to 
ensure predictable, equitable and sustainable coverage and payment. We support coverage 
and reimbursement approaches that facilitate the integration of digital health t echnologies to 
promote better health outcomes, increase value or improve the patient experience.  
Intellectual Property . Different AI elements could be subject to intellectual property (IP) 
protection, including training data, AI models, model improvements, and model outputs. 
However, lack of clarity and differences in existing IP laws present obstacles.  To enhance 
innovation with AI, we need consistent protection of existing IP rights in the use of AI through 
clear and consistent application of IP legal frameworks  and clarity regarding liability . In addition, 
we call for  clarity regarding liability and  accountability implications related to  IP ownership of AI 
models in the healthcare context . 


5 
Conclusion  
We recognize the power and promise of AI in healthcare and believe this is a collective effort. 
We value our role as collaborator and innovator in healthcare, contributing new ideas, solutions, 
technology, partnerships, and perspectives on AI policy. We ar e focused on increasing 
engagement and cocreation with patients, providers, and policymakers to raise the 
understanding on how harnessing the potential of AI in healthcare can help everyone.  
*** 
J&J looks forward to serving as a resource and providing additional thoughts about the AI Action 
Plan to assure AI is ethically, safely, and efficiently integrated into our society. Thank you for 
your attention to this critically important issue. If you have any questions or we can provide any 
assistance on issues related to healthcare, please e -mail Leif Brierley at 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
Sincerely,  
Jane M. Adams  Carla Cartwright  
Vice President, Federal Affairs  Head, Global Digital & Regulatory Policy  


