Bogotá D.C., March 10, 2025  
To: 
National Coordination Office (NCO) for Research and Development of Networks and Information 
Technologies (NITRD), National Science Foundation  
Email: ostp -ai-rfi@nitrd.gov  
USA 
Subject:  AI Action Plan  
Ref.:  Request for Information  
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/02/06/2025 -02305/request -for-information -on-
the-development -of-an-artificial -intelligence -ai-action -plan  
“This document is approved for public dissemination. The document does not contain confidential 
or commercially proprietary information. The content of the document may be reused by the 
government in the development of the AI Action Plan and related docume nts without attribution.”  
Reason for your request:  
Through this Request for Information (RFI), the OSTP and the NCO of NITRD are seeking public 
input, including from academics, industry groups, private sector organizations, state, local, and 
tribal governments, and any other interested parties, on the prio rity actions that should be 
included in the Plan.  
Requested Topics of Interest:  
“Hardware and chips, data centers, energy consumption and efficiency, model development, 
development, application, and use of open -source code (whether in the private sector or by the 
government), explainability and assurance of AI model outcomes, cybersec urity, data privacy and 
security throughout the lifecycle of AI system development and implementation (including 
protection against AI model attacks), risks, regulation and governance, technical and security 
standards, national security and defense, resea rch and development, education and workforce, 
innovation and competition, intellectual property, acquisitions, international collaboration, and 
export controls.”  
Response:  
We have a large dataset of stakeholders who are interested in the outcome of your request for this 
RFI, once it has been processed by the respective entity, in accordance with its policy. Could you 
send us any catalog for dissemination purposes?  
We subscri be to your distributions.  
"I am a professional with diverse skills in content creation, urban photography, and a strong 
background in economics and political science. I have experience as a commentator in articles for 
El Tiempo  and currently lead my own firm, GP&LIFE, in Bogotá. I specialize in regional and 


municipal development, as well as promoting innovation and technology, including artificial 
intelligence. I am committed to excellence and always looking for new opportunities to apply my 
knowledge in the digital and business fields.  
Native language: Spani sh and knowledge of English.  
Content Creator and Urban Photographer | Economist and Political Scientist  
Affiliated with the Bogotá Chamber of Commerce  
Affiliated with the Virtual Labor Academy  
Contact: University of AI for Entrepreneurs."  
Sincerely,  
JOHN C. ALBERTO MORENO Q.  
ID No. 19.279.104 Bogotá  
Bogotá D.C., Colombia  
Let me know if you need any further adjustments!  


