From: John Harris
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] Re: This is an incredibly bad idea
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 11:28:34 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
(I sent this message before, but without the required text at the end. This is intended as a
revision of and replacement for that message. Please disregard my previous message.)
Last year, I did some micro task work for a large Internet company, through the website
Prolific. Over an hour, I was to look through text generated by their AI, and check it via websearch against reputable resources.
During that time, I reviewed six passages of text, reaching in length from a few sentences to
several paragraphs. My job was to mark a passage a wrong if I could find any incorrectness init. 
Of the six passages, I had to mark five as being wrong.Because of this, as well as other news about generative AI being frequently wrong, and the
many errors I have seen it make personally, I must tell you that using it for any purpose wouldbe a grave mistake, if you cared about the quality of the outcome in any way.
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the governmentin developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
Page 1
On Sat, Mar 15, 2025, 11:23 PM John Harris <  wrote:
Last year, I did some micro task work for a large Internet company, through the website
Prolific. Over an hour, I was to look through text generated by their AI, and check it via websearch against reputable resources.
During that time, I reviewed six passages of text, reaching in length from a few sentences to
several paragraphs. My job was to mark a passage as wrong if I could find any incorrectnessin it.
 
Of the six passages, I had to mark five as being wrong.  
Because of this, as well as other news about generative AI being frequently wrong, and themany errors I have seen it make personally, I must tell you that using it for any purposewould be a grave mistake, if you cared about the quality of the outcome in any way.




