From: Jordan Taylor
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 6:19:43 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
To Whom it May Concern,
My name is Jordan Taylor and I am a Japanese to English literary translator, as well as an
artist.
GenAI is massively flawed as a system to be used for literary translation, but people unaware
of how it actually works push for it to be implemented, resulting in sub-par results that have tobe checked by someone who can read both languages anyway, often requiring more time thanif it was translated by a human in the first place (unless the client accepts a lower quality).
Completely reliable machine translation will not be possible until we achieve AGI, as the AI
will need to be able to determine when the source text lacks all the information and where thatmissing information can be found, as well as make actual decisions about what is mostimportant about the text and what is all right to sacrifice.
I also cannot accept the ethically questionable act of using a tool trained without permission
on other people's work, or the increased burden on our environment through its powerdemands, especially considering its poor quality.
We must protect artists' and creators' work and livelihood, otherwise we will lose all human
creation. Even if AI only replaces "low-end" jobs, that will eventually require it to replace allcreative jobs as those low-end jobs are where beginners hone their skills in order to somedaybecome experts. The death of the beginner is the eventual death of the expert.
As such, I strongly urge you to implement policies to protect individual creators and their
work.
Best regards,Jordan Taylor
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the governmentin developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
  
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


