From: Josh
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Letter of Public Comment
Date: Monday, March 17, 2025 9:13:43 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
From:
Joshua WhiteBarboursville, WV
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for
Information on the Development of an ArtificialIntelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am an everyday American who works in the industry of
visual design. I have worked hard for years to developthe skills and knowledge to contribute to localbusinesses and clients, and have been lucky enough tomake a decent living and support myself – until recently.
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like
OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google threaten to destroythousands of American small businesses like minewith their recent demand to create special carve outsin copyright law.
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work
made by people. My unique work, and the work ofhundreds of thousands of other everyday Americancreators was taken and fed into these AI systems withoutour consent or any compensation. They ingest our work,reassemble it, and then sell it back to our clients –directly competing with us and cutting us out of themarketplace.


Now these Big Tech companies are asking this
administration to create exceptions and loopholes tomake this practice of stealing American creators’copyrighted work legal precedent. They are suggestingthat if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrightedwork, it is somehow suddenly “fair use”.
 
They seem to believe that anything and everything onthe internet – regardless of who owns it – should betheirs for the taking. They claim that if this administrationdoes not allow them to rewrite the law in this way, it willstifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose
of American copyright law is to protect the incentiveto create and innovate.
 
If we the American people do not own our creations, andeverything we put online will be stolen by Big Techgiants, what will be the incentive to create? If everydayAmericans create a new innovative piece of computercode, a new visual design, or a new piece of music onlyto have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft,why bother creating it in the first place? How will wepossibly make a living doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American
creators. Do not create new copyright exemptionsthat allow Big Tech companies to exploit and stealfrom creators and everyday Americans withoutpermission, compensation, or transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on


giving away creator content to Big Tech companies, but
rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators
and everyday Americans give effective consent, so
that we can decide when and where our work is usedby AI systems.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage arobust licensing marketplace, so that the incentive
to create for small businesses is preserved. Our workhas immense economic value, so the valuegenerated by that work should accrue to the originalcreators, not just Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should requiretransparency from Big Tech companies, requiring
them to disclose what material is in their trainingdatasets, and label what content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistentlyimpressed by the capabilities of these AI systems, andfind them incredibly useful for many things. But weshould not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds ofthousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech byrewriting copyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these
important issues.




