From: Jude
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Monday, March 17, 2025 9:18:31 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the governmentin developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
If current trends in AI continue, the US will lose the trust and confidence that the world places
in our technology and "American Know-How". In particular, we must protect copyright;ensure quality; and demonstrate efficiency.
Copyright is of paramount importance. American creativity cannot be sacrificed to corporate
interests, especially when those corporations could sell that creativity to foreign individuals.AI models must be able to cite their sources for all outputs, including images, styles, colors,code, and phrases. Only this kind of citation can protect the rights and works of Americanauthors.
Quality is next in importance. If AI results can't withstand factual verification, American AI
will garner the same reputation as early Japanese products: "cheap crap". We must eliminatehallucination, whether by rejecting invalid results before presenting them to the user or byimproving inputs and training. Holding the AI model developers legally responsible forinvalid results is probably the most straightforward solution.
Finally, we must demonstrate that AI results can be obtained with similar resource expenditure
to human results of the same quality. Why would I waste my money, effort, time, or energy? Ican easily commission art, writing, or research. The speed advantage of AI is no use if itsoutputs are invalid. There are also limits to how much speed is useful. When AI consumes thesame energy and water as a human does in a day, it must also produce results equivalent to aHunan's day of effort.
Jude Anthony


