March 15, 2025  
Via email to: 
Re: Request for Information on the Development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action 
Plan  
Thank you for this opportunity to provide comments on the development of an AI Action Plan. 
AI has many potential beneﬁts, including for people with disabilities . AI also presents risks 
of bias when not designed to accommodate the full range of human variation.  
It is possible to develop  AI in ways that address these risks; that beneﬁt all users; and that 
promote innovation
1.   
The demographics of disability are often underestimated when designing technology, 
adversely impacting the efficiency of government use of information technology . Over 25% 
of the US adult population has some type of disability2, many of which can impact use of 
technolog y, for instance vision, hearing, speech, movement, dexterity, attention, mental 
health, or cognition . Anyone  can  acquire a functional limitation at any point in their life , 
including many temporary conditions . It is useful and efficient to build systems that 
accommodate potential functional differences in advance  so that all can beneﬁt from 
advances in technology . 
Examples of inadvertent bias with  risks to civil rights from  use of  AI include a resume 
screening tool that might bypass an excellent job candidate because of mention of 
accessibility work; AI -based worker surveillance that might ﬂag a top performer who 
happens to have a movement disorder; or a privacy violat ion because of inadequate 
anonymization of personal health data that includes  a rare disorder.  
Recent  practical guidance in the report “Building a Disability -Inclusive AI Ecosystem: A 
Cross -Disability, Cross- Systems Analysis o f Best Practices”3 can help the federal 
government use AI in ways that accommodate the needs of all users. This guidance, from the American Association of People with Disabilities (AAPD) and the Center for Democracy 
and Technology  (CDT),  suggests considerations relevant to  the use of AI in  different areas of 
1 “Case Studies in Disability  Driven Innovation. ” Robert Ludke , 2025  
2 https://www.cdc.gov/disability -and -health/articles -documents/disability- impacts -all-of-us-
infographic.html  
3 Building A Disability -Inclusive AI Ecosystem: A Cross -Disability, Cross -Systems Analysis of Best Practices. 
Ariana Aboulaﬁa, CDT, and Henry Claypool, AAPD. h ttps://cdt.org/wp -content/uploads/2025/03/2025-03- 11-
CDT -Building-A- Disability -Inclusive -AI-Ecosystem -report -ﬁnal.pdf  


federal activity , including in employment, education, beneﬁts determination , information 
and communications technologies, healthcare, transportation, and criminal justice .  
Certain core principles  in the development and use of AI  can serve as an important 
foundation facilitating implementation of this guidance. This includes continued investing 
in research on human-AI interactions; transparency through disclosure of agencies’ AI  use 
cases; the availability of opt -out mechanism s that  meet accessibility requirements ; 
training practitioners to be aware of practical design guidance  such as that mentioned 
above; pre- and post -deployment auditing of AI systems for  potential  bias; risk analysis 
that accounts for impacts to different populations including those with disabilities; and 
continued coordination among  Chief AI Officers through the CAIO Co uncil  to share 
strategies that support efficient  implementation.  
Thank you for your consideratio n of these comments. For further clariﬁcation or inquiry, I 
am reachable at the email below.  
Sincerely,  
-Judy  Brewer
Judy  Brewer  
Current affiliation  (for identiﬁcation only) : Executive Fellow, School of Information, UC 
Berkeley  
Formerly: Assistant Director for Accessibility , Office of Science and Technology Policy  


