From: julia wagner
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 11:56:30 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Elon Musk has talked a lot about the dangers of strong artificial general intelligence,
including the risk that it could annihilate humanity if the wrong values get into it,  for
example the anti-human ideology of wokeness. One example Mr. Musk gave is that it could
determine that the only way to end transphobia for good is to kill all humans. Musk hastaken the lead in the AI race with Grok 3, but unfortunately, it was trained using data froman era when the media and social media was biased in favor of wokeness, and Musk admitsthat despite his best attempts, Grok 3 is not completely free from the influence of wokeculture. Due to Musk's returning of free speech to his X platform, formerly Twitter, he willhave a useful corpus of unbiased data to train on in a few years, but for reasons like this, toreach AGI now would be extremely risky to the future of humanity. China has indicated thatit is open to slowing their development, but because of the arms race conditions, it has nochoice but to plunge ahead as fast as it can. I urge Donald Trump to maximize the odds thatthe future of humanity will be amazing by making a deal with the Chinese to mutually slowprogress on frontier AI systems towards AGI, ideally until Musk's neuralink is ready toharness the power of AGI directly, or at least until more data can be produced under thisnew era of free speech in order to build a human-friendly AGI. Not only will this greatlyreduce the risk to humanity in general, but it will give American society more time to adjustto the implications of AGI on employment.
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


