March 15, 2025 
Michael Kratsio s  
Director [PENDING CONFIRMATION]  
Office of Science & Technology Policy  
The White House  
1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW  
Washington, DC 20500 
Sethuraman Panch anathan 
Director 
National Science Foundation 2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Attn: Faisal D’Souza, NCO  
Submitted via ema il at ostp-ai-rfi@nitrd.gov  
Re: AI Action Plan 
Dear Directors Kratsios and Panchanathan,  
For over 20 years, Holog ic has been a champion for women's health, developing cutting- edge 
medical technologies designed to deliver exceptional clinical outcomes. Our innovations 
empower healthcare professionals to detect, diagnose, and treat health conditions affecting women worldwide. 
Hologic has pioneered innovation in women's health, particularly in the use of Artificial 
Intelligence (AI). AI is increasingly crucial in aiding the diagnosis of breast and cervical cancers. 
As a leading innovator, Hologic is committed to advancing screening technologies for these diseases. Hologic developed the first and only FDA- cleared digital cytology system that uses AI 
to pinpoint the cells that cytologists and pathologists should review, enhance workflows and 
enable greater collaboration across lab and other healthcare settings to detect cervical cancer.  
Our digital portfolio also includes a suite of FDA-cleared mammography AI products, which use 
algorithms to score image quality, assess breast density, and detect suspicious lesions with high sensitivity (94%). The outputs of the AI algorithms are integrated into radiologists’ normal 
reading workflow to drive continuous clinical and efficiency improvements in reviewing cases. 
As more AI services are integrated into clinical workflows and adopted by clinicians, certain 
statutory barriers need to be addressed. Congressional action is needed to ensure existing 
regulations and policies reflect the current state of AI technology and do not inadvertently hinder its safe and effective deployment. To ensure patient access to advanced breast cancer detection 
1


technolog y, Congress should consider review of relevant policies to allow for the adoption of AI 
to enhance screening and early detection. Furthermore, establishing clear reimbursement 
pathways for AI-driven diagnostics a nd treatments is critical to ensure that beneficiaries and 
clinicians  can access these services.  Reimbursement  policies that recognize t he value of AI in 
improving patient outcomes and reducing healt h care costs will incentivize companies to invest 
in research and d evelopment, u ltimately l eading to more technological ad vancement and clinical 
impact for  patients. 
We appreciate the opportunity to share our views and look forward to collaborating with you to 
ensure that patients and providers have access to FDA-authorized, rigorously validated 
healthcare AI. Please contact me with any questions regarding this RFI response. 
Regards, 
Julie Khani  
Corporate VP, Government Affairs & Corporate Communications 
This document is appr oved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
2


