From: Justin Allen
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Monday, March 17, 2025 9:13:33 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
AI regulations are NECESSARY for the safety of the public. Businesses seek to replace as
many living breathing people as they can get away with. This means less jobs for Americans.All while the working class is being pushed to the limit by stagnant wages and other avenuesof automation. AI as a tool is going to be used to flood the internet with misinformation andpropaganda worse than it already is. The output of such technologies looks cheap, copied, andoften garbage. Even with improvements I believe it is unethical to utilize. There needs to beprotections for real people in place. Generative text and images are also making its users lazierwith their work. The less effort a real person puts into a piece of work, the less they'll improveat such work. Data harvesting to feed AI is also a threat to data privacy of US citizens. Weshould disincentivize corporations from illegally selling our data with potential jail time. Ifyou believe we need to invest in this technology in order to be competitive with the othersuperpowers of the world, then you are already a step behind. We first need to invest in ourpeople. AI won't fix our crumbling infrastructure. AI won't provide universal health care. AIwon't prevent disasters caused by climate change, but it will accelerate them. Why develop AIas a weapon when we should be developing defenses against it instead? I firmly believe thatheavy regulation of AI would be for the better of my country. It's infecting too many parts ofsociety and causing distrust and instability. The private sector holds no loyalty to this country.Giving them free reign to do what they will with no consequences will assuredly lead to adarker future for me and my people. Please heed my words and RESTRICT corporations fromabusing AI to their own ends.
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


