1 
Respons e: Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
3/15/2025  
Kathy Henrich   
Masters in Workforce/Talent Develop ment, with focus on  Future of Work in AI-era 
CEO, MKE Tech Hub Coalition  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
In 2024, I served  on Wisconsin ’s Legislative Council Study Committee on the Regulation of Artificial 
Intelligence in Wisconsi n.   During the 6 months on the committee, we heard test imony from over 2 0 
individuals and collected feedback from several businesses  and organization .  In addition, I am on the 
board of the Technology Council  of North America  and participate in their Legislative Committee .  
However, this  paper does not represent any of these organizations .  Rather, the exper ience gained from 
my current CEO position, my board positions , and my education  informs the guiding pr inciples being put 
forward in this paper.  
1.AI regulation  should be completed at a federal level
Similar to regulations around data security, we are already starting to see a patch work of laws
governing AI created at a state level.   In 202 4, Colorado passed the first  AI regulation in the United
States.  Other  states including  California, Ut ah, Connecticut and others are also no w considering
AI regulation.  The challenge with this approach is that software  is developed once and depl oyed
nationally .  When each state creates their own law s, it makes compliance extremely difficult,
especially for c utting ed ge startups who do not have large compliance teams.  As a result,
regulation at a federal level would actually enable innovation and make compliance mu ch simpler
and thus less expensive.
With that said , it is already recognized that the Colorado law requires additional work to be a
model for t he US.   Additional critical discussions are need ed related to liability and enforcement.
For example, it is necessary to set guidel ines on who is responsible for the impact of AI (developer ,
deployer, or user).
2.Investments in AI innovation are n eeded outside the typical tech hubs
Based on a 2023 Brookings report , 60% of AI roles are concentrated in just 10 cities.  Market
dynamics will favor thos e cities with a head s tart in AI development.  H owever, for the United


2 
States to remain globally competitive, we need the brain power of all cities.  Additionally, future 
innovations will come at the intersection of domain expertise and AI.   This domain knowledge  is 
spread across the country in areas as diverse a s energy exploration to healthcare  innovation.  The 
US needs to build capacity in our local universities and technical colleges to assist employers 
obtain the necess ary skills to augment current offerings through AI. Finally, AI in manufacturing  
will be critical to drive our manufactur ing renaissance in the center of the US.  
3.Incentives needed to drive ado ption of AI  and automation  by small and medium sized (SME)
According to McKinsey,  SMEs the United States are only half as productive as large companies,
compared with 60 percent in other advanced economies.  Narrowing the productivity gap, which is
equivalent to 5.4 percent of the US GDP, is particularly vital in an era of shifting global production .
There are several ways to incentivize this investment from “jumpstart ” investment do llars which
provide partial matching (example $.5 on $1).  Another is to in centivize through tax credits , similar
to the R&D tax credi ts.  If done in conjunction with technical assistance in hubs across the
country, we could help organizations adopt AI technology at a faster pace.
4.Incentivize employers early career training and invest in reskilling
Early indicators of the impacts of AI on jobs are that it will quickly replace ent ry level positions.
Tech has been an early adopter of AI, and we can expect th e trends to replicate in other areas of
the economy.  For example, today ChatGPT is being use d to generat ing 25% of code , entry level
computer programmer roles are disappearing, affecting both recent grads of both college  and
bootcamp programs.  For example, the Washingt on Post just published a report that stated that 1
in 4 programming jo bs has disappeared.   However, th ese entry positions are important on -ramps
to careers.   Therefore, we need to find ways to up level entry positions.   One example of this is to
create co -development opportunities while the students are in college  which are funded  as a
private/public partnership.  Public investment would be used t o balance the n ormal market fo rces
which incentiv ize employers to hire more experienced talent.
5.Develop better data sources to inform workforce planning.
With the likelihood  that at least 30% of roles will see 50% or more of their tasks automated
through Gen AI (Brookings 2024 ), it is critical that we have be tter data to help employ ers,
educators, and talent upskill productiv ely.   To do this, we nee d to refine our current Bureau of
Labor Statistics (BLS) to be task focused vs. job  focused.  This would allow us to be more surgical
in our approach  to workforce planning.  Ideally , we’d have a national AI -driven workforce
information  system which crea ted bi-directional value  with employers .  The system would both
help predict workforce changes based on the implementation of  AI into specific process  and
create a closed loop AI system where the employers  return actual workforce changes to help
continue to refine the predictive model.
6.Address the Rural -Urban Divide


3 
During testimony t o Wisconsin ’s AI committee, it became clear that we need to help ensure that 
both rural and urban areas are able to leverage  AI in the public sector . For example, small counties 
or hospitals will not have the requis ite data and skills to improve productivity through AI.   
Therefore, we should encourage  the development of  public sector shared services so that both 
urban and rural areas  can benefit from the promise of AI .  This not only reduces costs and 
improves services but  would also he lp address rural workforce shortages .  For example, in law  
enforcement you could  reduce the  time spent on non -citizen facing tasks, such as documentation 
of arrests, etc.   
7.Establish a Standing Committee on AI in the Legislature
Given the rapid evolution of AI technology, it is recommended that a standing committee of the
legislature be formed to focus on all issues related to AI. A combination of legislative
representatives , government employee s, and industry advisors  could ensure:
a.Collaborative work across states.  This may include licensing, regulation, etc.
b.Ongoing landscape analysis  to identify new international risks and opportunities.
i.For example, in  the book,  The Coming Wave, author and industry insider, Mustafa
Suleyman creates a case for the need for AI regulation as the technology becomes
increasingly sophisticated and powerful to ensure that the technology is used for
good. As a general -purpose technology that is essentially available to everyone,
there must be protections put in place to help ensure our safety. Some of the
recommendations include educating our workforce, limiting development to
licensed organizations, and requiring audits of th e technology for bias.
Conclusion These recommendations  aim to create a balanced and forward -thinking approach to AI 
legislation.  While each of these concepts was only introduced  briefly, I’d  be happy to have a d eeper 
discussion on any individual item . 
. 


