From: Kayla Hamilton
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Sunday, March 16, 2025 2:37:14 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
To Whom It May Concern (which should be all of us, because AI is a tool which has rapidly
devolved into a mess which will have wide-reaching negative impacts for us all if we are notcareful),
AI was at one time thought to be perhaps the future of technology. It was a new, shiny tool
with implications for the future of health, medicine, safety, public security, and many otherthings.
Now, it’s some bastardized idea of what it once was, and at its core requires theft in order to
keep the proverbial lights on. And really, that’s what is at the heart of this issue.
 AI cannot
exist without stealing, scraping, and regurgitating poor renditions of copyrighted work. That inand of itself is enough to outline why it has to be stopped. If the companies creating AI ‘chatbots’, image and video generators get to ignore copyright law then why does every othercitizen and business have to abide by that law? Why has the exception been made for AI?
Are we willing to allow theft of the highest degree in order to force this tool down the throats
of every man woman and child in the United States and beyond? Despite general widespreadpublic disdain for AI, it now exists in many online shopping sites, social media platforms, andeven on the search engines we use every day (where they regularly spit out inaccurate and attimes downright harmful information). It is now not only prevalent, but invasive.
 
Every work meeting starts with a warning that your every word is being transcribed using AI -but when you read the transcripts back they’re wrong.
 
Nobody is benefitting from AI. Students are using it to avoid doing their work, employers areusing it to skip over every qualified candidate they receive a job application from, andcompanies are using it to avoid having to answer directly to their consumers. Social media andadvertising agencies are using AI to avoid hiring real people to act in their commercials ormake their graphics. Bad actors are using AI to fool the AI-ignorant masses (oftentimes ourolder members of society) that fake images are real, sparking mass outrage over somethingthat never happened.
And let’s not forget the unregulated creation of deepfakes.
 
To push a tool that is so broken it’s harmful, full steam ahead, has quite frankly been the most idiotic thing I’ve seen
in a long long time. Name another instance where the government has encouraged the widespread use and
normalization of a tool that we knew was not only broken, but inherently harmful. Did it turn out well? I  cannot
over-exaggerate the harm AI has done and will continue to do. To our lives, our arts, our
students, our workforce, our planet, and our future.
We need to put it down.


All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


