Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan  
Response to Request for Information (RFI)  
Submitted to:  
National Science Foundation (NSF)  
Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP)  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) 
National Coordination Office (NCO)  
Email: ostp-ai-rfi@nitrd.gov  
Submitted by:  
KBR Services, LLC  
601 Jefferson  Street; Hoston, Texas 77002  
www.kbr.com  
Inquiries regarding the content should be directed to:  
Michele Mantello  
KBR Business Development Director  
March 15, 2025  
This document is approved for public dissemination.  The document contains no business -proprie-
tary or confidential information.  Document contents may be reused by the government in develop-
ing the AI  Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.


NSF OSTP NITRD NCO  
Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
RFI | March 15, 2025  
1 
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the statement 
on the title page of this response.  
1.0 INTRODUCTION  
KBR offers the following response to the Networking and Information Technology Research and 
Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO), National Science Foundation’s 
(NSF) Request for Information (RFI), on behalf of the White House Office of Science and Tech-
nology Programs ( OSTP). NITRD is seeking input on the highest priority policy actions that 
should be in the AI Action Plan  directed by a Presidential Executive Order on January 25, 2025 . 
The Order directs the OSTP to develop a plan that d efines priority policy actions needed to sustain 
and enhance America’s AI dominance and leadership to promote human flourishing, economic 
competitiveness, and national security. The Order further r evoked a previous Executive Order 
which hampered the private sector’s ability to innovate in AI by imposing burdensome government 
requirements restricting private sector AI development and deployment.  
With decades of increasingly AI -enabled, global, mission critical logistics and infrastructure op-
erations, construction, defense and intelligence, and science support services KBR is positioned to 
provide practical recommendations to enhance OSTP AI Action  plan policy development.  KBR 
appreciates OSTP’s efforts to engage businesses like ours in the formulation of the plan. It is im-
perative that businesses in key industries continue to be consulted as the planning effort continues.  
As a global superpower, America’s traditional role has been to leverage economic and military 
dominance to ensure our way of life.  This included a hefty investment in technologies that pro-
pelled our societal advancements.  AI tools have advanced significantly over the last several years 
and potential adversaries are  leveraging these tools as a method to even the playing field with an 
eye to surpassing our technical superiority. U.S. regulatory burdens make it more difficult to mit-
igate this existential threa t. This should give the Nation significant pause, and NSF should seize 
the opportunity to identify clear objectives and policy initiatives per the Executive Order (EO) , 
including .  
2.0 RECOMMENDATIONS  
In response to this RFI, KBR offers three recommendations for consideration in developing the AI 
Plan: 
1.Prioritize AI deployment in national defense applications,
2.Leverage established NSF framework and programs to advance AI leadership , and
3.Address energy and other infrastructure needs to enhance the U.S. domestic AI industry .
RECOMMENDATION 1—PRIORITIZE AI DEPLOYMENT FOR  NATIONAL DEFENSE APPLICATIONS  
KBR’s viewpoint is that the AI Action Plan should place high priority on AI support to national 
defense needs, including immediate access to AI -enabled critical information systems, AI -enabled 
decision intelligence platforms, and AI -enabled secure architecture. Ultimately, the A I Action Plan 
needs to address how we create an environment in which American ingenuity will allow us to stay 
ahead of our potential adversaries and retain our leadership position to keep our homeland and our 
allies safe and secure.   
KBR, our Warfighters, and global allies need AI -driven decision support systems that enable our 
ability to operate in a wide variety of environments. To ensure America’s dominance, the AI Ac-
tion Plan should enable continued development of these AI attribut es for the following areas:  
1.Develop AI -driven decision support systems to:
a.Connect the developed world with remote and austere environments enabling rapid transfer
of critical data over limited communications architecture


NSF OSTP NITRD NCO  
Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
RFI | March 15, 2025  
2 
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the statement 
on the title page of this response.  
b.Quickly gain insights into changing conditions impacting the mission which may not be
readily understood by those on the ground
c.Take historical and current information to predict how conditions could impact the mission
in the future
d.Optimize these mission critical courses of action across an infinite number of tangible and
intangible factors and quickly generate recommended courses of action with the highest
probabilities of success
e.Execute these decision support systems cycle faster than our competition
f.Ensure security and fidelity of the decision support system .
2.Develop AI -powered autonomous systems for maintaining infrastructure in austere and
remote environments  to:
a.Assess the current infrastructure condition and requirements and identify specific mainte-
nance tasks that can be automated using AI -powered systems
b.Collaborate with AI and robotics experts to design autonomous systems tailored to the
remote critical mission requirements to ensure these systems are capable of handling vari-
ous maintenance tasks, such as equipment inspection, repairs, and environmental m onitor-
ing
c.Develop prototypes of the autonomous systems and conduct rigorous testing in controlled
environments allows for gathering feedback from researchers and technicians to refine the
systems
d.Gradually deploy autonomous systems across global mission critical locations and imple-
menting monitoring mechanisms to track performance and identify areas for improvement
is crucial
e.Provide training and support for research, Warfighter and contractor station staff on how
to operate and maintain the autonomous systems, as well as establishing a support system
for troubleshooting and ongoing maintenance, ensures smooth operation.
3.Develop AI -driven logistics tools  to:
a.Establish predictive maintenance systems to ensure continuous operation by identifying
critical equipment and components that require regular maintenance and prioritizing them
based on their impact on overall operations and potential failure risks.
b.Deploy IoT sensors on critical equipment to collect real -time data on performance and
condition, such as vibration, temperature, and pressure
c.Develop AI algorithms to analyze sensor data and predict potential failures using historical
data and machine learning techniques improves prediction accuracy.
d.Integrate predictive maintenance algorithms with maintenance scheduling systems and au-
tomating maintenance alerts and scheduling based on predictive insights ensures timely
and effective maintenance.
e.Leverage AI -enabled optimization techniques to provide the best and fastest mission criti-
cal decision support processes to ensure the right product/part is delivered at the right place
at the right time in the right quantities.
f.Provide training for maintenance teams using predictive maintenance tools and interpreting
AI-generated insights equips them to perform their tasks efficiently.


NSF OSTP NITRD NCO  
Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
RFI | March 15, 2025  
3 
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the statement 
on the title page of this response.  
g.Continuously monitor the performance of the predictive maintenance systems and collect
feedback from maintenance teams to facilitate improvements to the algorithms and pro-
cesses.
4.Develop AI -enabled remote monitoring climate and environmental monitoring capabilities
to:
a.Identify key monitoring parameters, such as temperature, humidity, air quality, and soil
moisture, in consultation with environmental scientists and researchers to ensure compre-
hensive coverage
b.Select appropriate sensors and IoT devices for data collection and deploy them strategically
across different locations to ensure accurate and representative data. Computer vision aug-
ments the collection of real time data, allowing less human labor to iden tify critical envi-
ronmental changes
c.Develop AI algorithms to analyze the collected data and generate actionable insights, in-
cluding detecting anomalies, predicting trends, and providing real -time alerts, is essential
d.Integrate the AI -driven monitoring networks with existing data management and reporting
systems to ensure seamless data flow and accessibility for researchers and decision -makers
e.Regularly review the performance of the monitoring networks, make necessary adjust-
ments and update AI algorithms and sensor configurations based on new research and tech-
nological advancements.
With these objectives in mind, the right AI policies can help achieve success in various remote and 
austere mission environments such as expeditionary military endeavors.  Additionally, the right 
policies will spur economic acceleration of dual use technology in the civilian sectors including 
intelligent transportation, utility grids and infrastructure, robotics, human -AI interaction, and var-
ious use cases in neuroscience, b iology, chemistry, physics, manufacturing, and agriculture.  
RECOMMENDATION 2—LEVERAGE ESTABLISHED NSF  FRAMEWORK AND PROGRAMS TO ADVANCE AI LEADERSHIP  
NSF has been in a key leadership role in supporting fundamental and translational research in AI 
technologies, developing AI systems to enhance learning for all and grow the next generation of 
talent to advance the U .S. AI R&D workforce, and providing access to advanced cyberinfrastruc-
ture including scalable computing resources and high -quality and accurate training datasets to ad-
vance AI research and education. NSF programs, such as the NSF’s United States Antarctic Pro-
gram (USAP), that conduct important r esearch in remote and harsh environments can greatly ben-
efit from AI advancements to continue deriving the maximum scientific benefit while significantly 
reducing costs and improving data transparency and reliability.  
Through years of investment and national technology development leadership, NSF established a 
framework to ensure America’s continued innovation in AI methods, application of AI techniques 
and tools, democratizing AI research resources, trustworthy and eth ical AI, education and work-
force development, and partnerships to accelerate progress. NSF has held a leadership role in sup-
porting and funding AI research which is helping to transform every industry and function.  Recent 
NSF investments included several a ccelerators including:  
•National AI R&D Strategic Plan,
•National AI Initiative Act of 2020,
•National AI Research Resource (NAIRR) Task Force Pilot enhancing access to computational
resources, software, datasets, models, services and training to advance AI research and the use
of AI in research and education,


NSF OSTP NITRD NCO  
Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
RFI | March 15, 2025   
 
  4 
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the statement  
on the title page of this response.  
• Twenty-five AI institutes covering over 500 funded collaborative institutions across the US and 
around the world.  
• Collaboration with NIST’s leadership to develop the framework and security protocols neces-
sary for the safe and secure development of AI.  
KBR recommends building on the established NSF AI framework which focuses on  the following : 
• Data and Data Centers —Establishment of the most comprehensive network of data sets 
through open and secure data initiatives.  
• Decision Support Intelligence and Computational Hardware —Focus on AI -enhanced digital 
Model Based System Engineering (MBSE) systems to create digital models that replicate life 
situations.  Ensure the fastest, most comprehensive AI -enhanced data calculations based on ul-
tra-high speed hardware processing and optimization strategies.  Leverage annual competition 
with large and small industry actors, universities, and other actor collaborations to regularly 
capture best -in-class algorithms and toolsets.   
• Speed of Information Flow —Enhance global communication speed through AI -enabled com-
munication pathway optimization.  Focus on AI -enabled data prioritization, data compression, 
most efficient route selection, reduced energy power levels required and energy consumption.  
• Predictive Analytics —Reinforce development of AI -enabled ‘over -the-horizon’ impacts to lo-
calized operations, allowing time and space to mitigate potential impacts to organizational pro-
duction. Improve logistics operations through AI -enabled early identification of supply and ma-
terials needs, enhanced intelligent transportation methods and operations, most efficient route 
selection strategies.  
• Cybersecurity —Enhance AI -enabled cyber threat identification, containment, mitigation, and 
elimination systems.  Ensure trustworthy and ethical AI architecture and systems.  
KBR believes that continued funding of these and other NSF AI -related programs should continue 
as an integral part of maintaining America’ AI leadership position.  
RECOMMENDATION 3—ADDRESS ENERGY AND OTHER INFRASTRUCTURE NEEDS TO ENHANCE THE U.S.  DOMESTIC 
AI INDUSTRY  
The increasing energy demands of AI workloads necessitate a multi -faceted strategy to improve 
energy efficiency and sustainability. This strategy includes deploying low -power AI solutions, 
implementing microgrids, and optimizing energy usage in AI infrastr ucture. Alternative power 
sources such as nuclear, renewables, and natural gas turbines will be a vital part of powering the 
ongoing AI boom. It is crucial that the regulatory and licensing/permitting structure around these 
energy sources is streamlined so  that sufficient power is available where it is needed and on the 
timeframe that is required to maintain U.S. competitiveness.  
By utilizing enhanced hardware components, algorithmic optimization, and software efficiency 
enhancements, the energy cost of operating an AI system can be significantly reduced. Applica-
tion-Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs), which are custom -designed c hips optimized for AI 
workloads with lower power consumption, play a crucial role in this strategy. ASICs are widely 
used in cryptocurrency mining, AI acceleration, 5G telecommunications, autonomous vehicles, 
and advanced signal processing applications. In  AI, they serve as dedicated accelerators for neural 
networks, reducing computation time and energy consumption compared to traditional processors. 
Implementing AI -driven Electronic Design Automation (EDA) tools can improve chip layout, 
transistor density,  and power efficiency, with AI optimizing chip layouts in hours instead of weeks, 
significantly reducing production bottlenecks. High -performance computing (HPC) clusters can 


NSF OSTP NITRD NCO  
Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
RFI | March 15, 2025  
5 
Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the statement 
on the title page of this response.  
be used to speed up ASIC simulation and validation, allowing for multiple design variations to be 
tested simultaneously and reducing development time. Transitioning to Extreme Ultraviolet 
(EUV) lithography reduces the complexity of photolithography steps, improving precision and 
yield rates. Multi -patterning techniques allow smaller transistors to be printed on wafers, increas-
ing chip density per wafer.  
3.0 CONCLUSION  
KBR supports the initiative to develop a national strategy for ensuring U.S. leadership in the AI 
arena for the betterment of all Americans, continued economic competitiveness, and national de-
fense. Ongoing transparency as planning continues is essential t o the ultimate success and buy -in 
of the national strategy and KBR looks forward to continuing to monitor its progress and providing 
additional information and perspectives into this process.  


