March 15, 2025 
Faisal D'Souza 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development  (NITRD), National 
Coordination Office (NCO), National Science Foundation. 
Via Email: 
Re:  Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action 
Plan 
Introduction  1 
Text and data mining exceptions  1 
Metadata and Formalities  3 
Competition Concerns  3 
Data Spaces  4 
Introduction 
Knowledge Ecology International  (KEI) asks that two recent KEI documents be include 
by reference. 
●KEI’s February 2025 submission to the UK IP office consultation on AI and
Copyright (available here:  https://www.keionline.org/40558 ),
●KEI’s February 3, 2025 comments to USTR regarding its Special 301 list
(Available here:  https://www.regulations.gov/comment/USTR-2024-0023-0051 )
KEI’s comments today focus on text and data mining exceptions, metadata and 
formalities, competition, and data spaces. 
Text and data mining exceptio ns 
1 


When considering policies regarding exceptions for text and data mining (TDM), for 
training AI services, pay attention to global norms, and make distinctions between 
different types of data.  From KEI’s USTR Comments: 
Any country that provides robust exceptions for using copyrighted material for AI 
will have a significant advantage in terms of training such services. But a lack of 
harmonization may create a situation where services developed in one country, 
such as in the United States, will not be legal in another, because of 
non-authorized use of copyrighted works to train the service. This makes it a 
significant trade issue. The most emotive and politically important voices to make it an infringement of 
copyright to train AI services are cultural industries and journalism. KEI has been 
concerned that restrictive policies on the uses of copyrighted works to train AI will 
be extended to much broader classes of works. We have singled out science, 
drug development and legal issues, to illustrate cases where society is best off if 
AI services have access to everything possible in terms of data, and where 
omissions may have considerable downsides. (2023. James Love. We Need 
Smart Intellectual Property Laws for Artificial Intelligence: “One-size-fits-all” 
regulation will sideline medical and research benefits promised by the advent of 
artificial intelligence, Scientific American, August 7, 2023.)  In regard to scientific and medical information, note that authors are rarely paid 
for their works, and a handful of companies control a large number of journals, 
many of them foreign-owned. It would be a very bad outcome if the Holtzbrinck 
Publishing Group, the private equity firm BC Partners, Wiley and the Relx Group, 
are able to significantly limit which companies can use the leading medical 
journals to train AI services, or for that matter, if any publisher can opt-out of the 
science being used to train programs that are used for drug discovery or to treat 
and protect patients. Knowledge Ecology International (KEI) encourages governments to extend TDM 
exceptions to both commercial and noncommercial works.  
KEI notes that there may be cases where opt-in or opt-out options are appropriate,  
particularly for some uses involving cultural industries. However, more robust TDM 
exceptions should be the general rule. Opt-in or opt-out options should be only 
considered for a narrow set of cases where they are appropriate.  
2 of 4 


 
KEI’s submission to the UK IP office included comments on the importance of being 
inclusive when it comes to the text and data used to train AI services dealing with the 
following topics: 
 ● Medical Products and Services 
● Legal Services 
● Weather Forecasting 
● Engineering and Manufacturing 
● Financial Services 
● Education and Academic Research 
● Patent Examinations 
Metadata and Formalities 
For a variety of reasons, it will be useful to have accurate metadata attached to 
published articles, photographics, designs and more generally, for data of all sorts.  
 
Some WIPO administered treaties on copyright and related rights place practical 
restrictions on requirements for formalities, which make it more difficult to identify works 
used to train AI, and to provide remuneration, if that is a policy objective.  
 
Metadata adds crucial context, explaining the meaning, origin, and characteristics of the 
data, and allows machine learning models to interpret the information more accurately.  
 
Standards for metadata are important, challenging to develop and typically are a cross 
border concern. KEI has been asking the WIPO Standing Committee on Copyright and 
Related Rights to have as an agenda item discussions on metadata, beginning with 
recorded music and photographs.  
 
Competition Concerns 
Economies of scale are important and present risks that there will be excessive 
concentration of control of training data. 
 
KEI is concerned that opt-in or opt-out rules for text and data mining will lead to high 
entry barriers for some types of services.  Exclusionary or discriminatory licensing also 
presents risks.   
 
It may be important to treat some types of data or databases as essential facilities, and 
mandate some types of sharing of access. 3 of 4 


Data Spaces 
For a variety of reasons, governments should consider the benefits of data spaces 
when it comes to the management of data to train AI services.  
Data spaces is a term used to describe a framework where organizations exchange or 
provide controlled access to data, under agreed-upon rules, standards and 
infrastructure.  
In decentralized systems, data remains held by various entities, but can be accessed by 
authorized parties for specific uses. For example, medical records data around the 
world is held by different government and private entities, and is subject to rules to 
protect the privacy of patients. Queries can be run on decentralized datasets, with the 
results benefiting researchers, while avoiding excessive concentration of the control 
over records, and allowing each organization holding the records to protect patient 
privacy according to relevant ethical and national legal obligations. 
Sincerely, 
James Love 
Executive Director 
Knowledge Ecology International (KEI) 
https://keionline.org 
4 of 4 


