Congressman Keith Rothfus (ret.)  
227 Walnut Street  
Sewickley, PA 15143  
March 15, 2025  
Submitted electronically to 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development  
National Coordination Office /National Science Foundation  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
RE: RFI on Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
FR Doc: 2025 -02305 
To Whom It May Concern:  
On January 23, 2025, President Donald Trump issued Executive Order 14179 calling for 
the development of an artificial intelligence  (AI) action plan that would achieve the policy of the 
United States of sustaining our nation’s global AI dominance “in order to promote human 
flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security.” Subsequently, the White House 
issued a request for info rmation (RFI) inviting interested parties for ideas on actions that should 
be included in the AI action plan.  
The RFI’s call for input directly from the American people on AI policy ideas 
demonstrates the Trump administration ’s understanding  of how revolutionary business, 
economic and technological developments may impact the quality of life of everyday 
Americans. That President  Trump  would solicit such feedback is reflective of, and consistent 
with, his  near stand -alone critique of another economic trend that took place in the second half 
of the twentieth century. In that case, Wall Street, Washington power brokers and ivory tower 
academics pushed policy prescriptions that resulted in unfair trade actions  (including the 
admission of China to the WTO)  that closed  factories across western Pennsylvania, upstate New 
York, New England, Ohio, Michigan, Indiana, Illinois and Wisconsin and did great harm to  
“human flourishing” in these areas. The country simply cannot afford another policy mistake , 
particularly in such a far -reaching endeavor  as AI .  
The analytical power of AI provides great promise to help  humanity meet the pressing 
problems we face. Finding cures to disease, tackling environmental challenges, improving 
education, making government more efficient, eliminating waste, fraud and abuse in both the 
public and private sector, facilitating better  transportation  systems , and bringing to justice those 
involved in narcotics and human trafficking and related money -laundering are just some of the 
results we can expect in the coming decades as AI -leveraged applications are deployed. On the 
other hand, AI will present  challenges with regard to the need for workers to adapt to different 
occupations, the collection of data from  those who use AI applications and the related issue of 
privacy of such users, the responsibility of those who put AI applications into the marketplace, 


March 15, 2025  
Page 2 of 3 
the potential  – especially for the young –  for psychological or neurological harm or degradation 
of critical thinking for users of  AI applications , the replacement of humans with robots as 
caregivers, protecting the intellectual property rights of authors whose works may be used in 
training AI models, military or law enforcement AI applications that may take a “human outside 
the loop” when confronted with life and death situations, the ability of AI to convey or promote 
philosophical or ethical principles,  and lastly, the understanding of what it means to be human 
and attempts to convey on machines anything comparable to the rights of persons.  
As the Trump administration considers a n AI policy framework  and action plan  to 
address the evolving AI landscape, if it wants AI to result in true human flourishing, it would be 
well advised to consider how to avoid the aforementioned pitfalls that have the potential to 
produce a devastation  even greater than what  is found  in old rust belt towns. To that end, the 
administration should consider including in its AI action plan the proposal of regulatory or 
legislative policies , as appropriate,  in accordance  with following:  
oMeans to facilitate job training programs designed to assist workers in adapting
to new occupations in the event AI makes their old jobs obsolete.
oMeans of holding accountable providers of AI systems that cause psychological or
neurological harm to users of such AI systems.
oMeans for users of AI systems to be protected from having data acquired through
their use of such AI systems from being used by the provider of the system unless
the user has opted in to such use, with such opt -in not being obscured in a
lengthy terms and conditions of use.
oMeans to protect minors from engaging such AI systems without parental
involvement.
oMeans to protect the intellectual property of authors whose works may be used
in training or teaching AI systems.
oThe prohibition of employees and agents of the Federal government from using ,
and the prohibition of Federal grants and contracts to private sector parties that
provide  or use , AI systems or supportive infrastructure that are :
▪embedded with ideological bias or social engineering agendas (such as,
for example, AI systems that reject basic objective truths such as the
reality of two genders, the rejection of the sanctity of all human life from
fertilization until natural death, the truth that every human has a mother
and a father, etc.) ;
▪facilitate or enable the distribution of pornography;
▪embryo selection or germ line gene editing through CRISPR or any similar
technology


March 15, 2025  
Page 3 of 3 
Regarding bias in AI systems, while EO 14179 calls for the development of “AI 
systems that are free from ideological bias or engineered social agendas,” given 
the subjectivity and relativity that governs  academic and public  discourse today, 
an AI action plan  that calls for a mandate for AI systems to seek truth (not just 
“my truth” or “your truth,” but the truth) and what is good should not be 
deemed to be an ideological pursuit. It is ideologies and social engineering, as so 
clearly seen in the transgender ism movement, that seek to take us away from 
truth. And to be clear, truth is not the same as what more than 50% of a 
community may believe; if a majority of people , for example,  living in the ante -
bellum south believed slavery was consistent with the Declaration of 
Independence’s recognition of inalienable rights to life, liberty and the pursuit of 
happiness for all men, that did not make the proposition true.  
oThe prohibition of any agency of the Federal government from recognizing any
rights in an AI -generated bot, agent or similar application or mechanism that is
akin to the rights of human beings. For example, an AI bot should never be
recognized as person with the rights recognized in our Declaration of
Independence and Constitution, regardless of the subjective belief that any
person may have w ith respect to such a bot. The idea that one may have a legally
recognized familial, marital or other personal “rela tionship” with an AI bot or
agent must also be rejected. Here, the Federal government must operate from a
perspective that embraces  the concept of embodiment as being necessary for
the recognition of rights of the person, that is that humans consist of mind, body
and soul.
oFederal policy should declare that AI systems in the defense and law
enforcement sectors  will not use deadly force without there being a “human in
the loop.”
The Trump administration is to be commended in the approach to AI that is evidenced in 
EO 14179 and the RFI. I would encourage the administration to consider the points made in this 
submittal along with others who are expressing similar con cerns. This document is approved for 
public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential 
information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action 
Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
Respectfully submitted,  
Keith Rothfus  
Former member of the U.S. House of Representatives  
(Pennsylvania’s Twelfth District, 2013 -2019)  


