From: Kelby Velasquez
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Monday, March 17, 2025 9:19:10 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Proper regulation for a.i is needed in moving forward. Reckless advancements and blind
favoring for ai tech companies with the guise phrases such as "better tomorrow" are false andare at best pretexts that result in destructive outcomes for not just Americans but for the wholeworld. Millions upon millions and in the future billions of people's not only creative works,but also properties, ownerships and identities stolen, scraped and used by big tech corporationswithout even a bit of compensation or credit. Furthermore without proper regulations andrestrictions all of this will continue without knowing what's real or fake. Not knowing whatwas permitted or what was unauthorized.
 
Google as with other companies/corporations have proven that their intentions are tomonopolize online space and businesses. Google's use of a.i has been and continues to, withevidence from businesses, censoring publishers.
 
With the rampant use of a.i unchecked, artists/creators will be severely impacted as they arealready by the use of ai in these few years. Humans first before a.i. The works made by humanartists and creators are what got humanity this far. Without proper regulation of a.i, humanartists and creators' works will continue to be vacuumed by big corporations to then massproduce pale imitations of ai amalgamations.
 
Copyrights have and should continue protecting human artists/creators. Not big techcorporations
 nor any other businesses that put themselves and a.i first. Human artists and
creators have been hunted down and have had their works and identities  stolen, scraped and
trained on ai. Companies and corporations like Google have been slowly putting a.iimages
 /visuals in the forefront, as a result, burying human artists and creators' work online.  


