From: Kelly Moore
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 7:40:01 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
This document is approved for Public dissemination.
Kelly Moore
Aubry MooreBrennan MooreHarlan Moore
On behalf of my family, I am writing to confirm our Civil Rights and Privacy Rights have
been extremely violated for the last two years and we need to protect ourselves from thepotentially harmful practices and unlawful behavior that can occur at any given time. 
 
I have recently learned how to provide input into the Notices/Proposed Rules posted in theFederal Register. 
 However, this may be my report to confirm that the current situation is not
going well and that I need to share this information with government officials.  Please advise
me on how to receive the help to alleviate the problems we are facing and how to resolve theissues that we are currently experiencing. 
 
We are currently looking to make sure that we are able to help with this issue and to provideyou additional information regarding proposed regulations that will impact the futuredevelopment of this project. 
 
Some of the problems pertaining to our case are available in the Federal Register underNotices/Proposed Rules and we have other 
 issues to report to you based on this email
notification.
I have no current access to a home computer, printer, nor the two laptops owned due to my
current situation.  My iPhone continues to have intermittent problems, as well.  The problems
and the complaints are violations that include blocked emails, blocked texts, blocked calls(blocked calls during family emergency matters), deleted texts, deleted pictures, deleted files,
 blocked access to handle my personal business with an existing Federal Government entity
for their own required needs, retrieved tax returns, retrieved family medical records, retrievedpersonal HR files, retrieved family succession files, blocked from opting out of multiple appsand ads, and the list goes on without being able to control any of them. 
 I have attempted to
seek assistance from many groups of professionals and experts related to this matter and havebeen unsuccessful to resolve the ongoing problems.
 
Please confirm receipt of this email communication, provide details of your review processand next steps required.
Thank you for your assistance with this matter.Best regards,


Kelly Moore
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


