From: Kelsey Michele
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Sunday, March 16, 2025 9:38:09 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
To whom it may concern:
Hello, I am a professional artist and designer who has worked primarily in themed
entertainment as well as in the realms of book illustration, fashion, and costume design. Myyears of experience and network of creative professionals have given me direct exposure to theinterior working conditions of related creative industries such as animation, film & tvproduction, video games, table top & board games, advertising, product design,merchandising, and more. It is with this background that I must comment on the future of art,entertainment, and all culture which we hold dear with regards to Generative “ArtificialIntelligence.”
 
This technology requires vast amounts of data, data which these tech companies pushing toinfect every piece of our society with their product must be harvested from troves ofcopyrighted material. They’ve admitted themselves that the tech can’t function without thisdata. They’ve also admitted that they’ve been mostly running unchecked knowing that theywere in essence stealing data. They’re fighting hard to tell us that “training” is different thanother copyright uses, but they can give no guarantees that their tech won’t outright plagiarize.Examples of plagiarism have been found in small samples sizes using both genertative image“AI” and using Large Language Model (LLM) “AI.” It cannot function without stolenintellectual property, and yet they believe they are above compensating IP and copyrightholders for their work. They should not receive and exception for their sad parasitictechnology—artists, writers, creatives, and even corporations deserve compensation for whentheir work is used regardless of who is using it!
What’s more, this technology specifically seeks to replace those that create the data on which
they run. Though here, at least, we reach an interesting limit: generative “AI” is inherentlyderivative. It cannot innovate because it doesn’t truly think like a human, no matter what liesthe tech bros tell. That, unfortunately, won’t stop employers from being duped into firing theirskilled creative staff to attempt to replace them. The end result would be disastrous: artistsunable to find work, entire creative industries tanking, cultural institutions shuttering, andeventually the crumbling of culture as innovation and human-made art become out of reach tothe masses.
 
It won’t end with creative industries—CEOs of every stripe will sign up to replace every partof their workforce no matter how poorly AI assistants actually function. Imagine being beingstuck in endless robotic phone trees on every call to insurance, the bank, the doctor…imaginethere is no human at any point that you can reach. An AI cannot be held responsible when itgives you dangerous advice—which it has already been shown to do with even commonGoogle AI telling people to add glue to their pizza toppings. And when an AI recreates aworse, garbled version of a classic film, will it be held liable for that plagiarism? Or do thecompanies making it?


In short, “AI” technology is an anti-innovation, anti-creativity, anti-human grift! It’s being
sold to us by empty promises when the reality is a steaming pile of stolen data and copyright
infringement. The tech cannot think like a human and even feeding it all the data in the worldwill not create the singularity as these AI companies claim. The emperor has no clothes.Please, stand up for creative industries, protect those that make and keep culture, and let usgrow to a more human-centric future. Generative “AI” allowed to run unchecked will be thebeginning of a very dangerous and bleak future.
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the governmentin developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
Thank you,Kelsey Soderstrom
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


