From: Stegeman, Ken
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Thursday, February 6, 2025 7:14:02 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
#1 Require anyone using AI in any communication medium must identify to the other party that they
are not communicating with a human being.  
Telephone Contacts , Email contacts, on line chats, social media interactions.   Newspapers,
professional journals, magazines, TV, radio….any form of communication between AI/computer andhumans must be proceeded with a warning that the interaction is with a computer generatedsource.
  $1,000 fine for each infraction.
 
#2 all AI contacts via phone, email, social media messaging etc must contain an identifier that willallow the receiving media to identify it and block it…in conjunction with that all phones, emails,social media aps must come with a system to identify and reject these AI contacts.In other words, a standard ID method needs to be developed that all senders must attach to AIcontact attempts and all methods of receiving these contacts must be designed to recognized this IDmethod and allow the user to reject the AI contact.
 
#3 any AI generated image, video or any other media must conspicuously AND AT THE VERYBEGINNING, notify the consumer of said media that the content is not real and was generated by AI.
 
In other words, HUMANS need to be informed what is computer generated BEFORE or AT THESTART of their interactions with AI.
  The notice needs to be CONSPICOUS such that the reasonable
person would not be mistaken that they are viewing computer generated content.   Again, 1,000 fine
per user that is not notified upfront that they are consuming/interacting with AI content.
 
Pretty clear that HUMANS need to be in charge of AI and part of being in charge means HUMANSmust first be informed that they are interacting with a computer/AI.
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


