2/26/2025 via FDMS  
Kevin O’Neill  
In my view 5 Stages are needed for an AI plan to be successful: Exploring phase - where having an 
understanding of AI basics is learned. Most end users are not aware that prompts they enter into 
https://www.chatgpt.com or https://copilot.microsoft.com are generative prompts. For any kind of 
core and key automation, plugins along with a series of carefully crafted prompts are needed as 
well. Also, end users need to know that prompts they enter can be deleted from a said user profile 
when applicable. Addition ally, AI is made -up of the core concepts which should be part of any 
education: algorithms, autonomous systems, machine learning, supervised learning, unsupervised 
learning, reinforcement learning, deep learning and fuzzy logic. Finally, knowing the capabi lities, 
limitations and ethical considerations of the AI based system being utilized is paramount. Planning 
phase - actively accessing, defining and planning so that specific measurable objectives are met. 
Knowing what one wants to measure regarding how ti me is saved from AI is a major part of this 
phase. Additionally having key performance indicators and meeting them is key as well. Example: 
how does AI help regarding defect rates helping with quality, how does AI help regarding a planned 
to done ratio for  predictability and finally how does AI help with happiness for stability. Formalizing 
phase - socializing and executing on the AI strategy plan. Have concepts structured and 
documented into official actionable plans. Currently AI is still evolving but eve n so, it needs to have 
core aspects more standardized especially around the use of templates, checklists and protocols. 
Scaling phase - delivering both incremental and new values regarding AI aspects. No matter what, 
an AI plan is going to have to include the handling of a larger workload and workforce. It needs to 
have the proper infrastructure improvement as needed as well as the proper process optimization 
for the automating of repetitive tasks, workflows and new practices that evolve. Realizing phase - 
having consistent AI value across the environment. Be able to handle the execution of plans 
accounting for resource utilization, monitoring and control and finally quality assurances. If AI does 
not have consistency or have value, then it will not fulfill its usefulness.  


