The Bionic Enterprise : Architecting the Intelligent Society of the Future  
 
Page 1 
 Supporting America’s AI Action Plan  
The Bionic Enterprise: Architecting the Intelligent Society of 
the Future  
 
“The enterprise of the future won’t build killer apps,  
It will become the killer app.”  
 
Submitted by: Kevin L. Brett  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated  
documents without attribution.  
 
All opinions are my own . 
 
AI-Driven Framework for the Future  
The Bionic Enterprise: Architecting the Intelligent Society of the Future  and its companion 
Transformation Leader Guide  by the same title provide a detailed implementation  roadmap  
and reference architecture for envisioning and implementing AI -driven organizations. This 
framework and Bionic Transformation approach should be integrated as  a central 
component the United States AI Action Plan  to help the United States achieve and maintain 
strategic and tactical advantage across industry, academia, national defense, and the 
intelligent society. The framework addresses the concept  of USA 2.0 (Bionic Cities, Bionic 
Transportation,  Bionic National Defense, Bionic Healthcare, Bionic Homes , Bionic 
Companies,  and more) as a comparable initiative  to Japan’s Society 5.0 efforts. It describes 
the emergence of organizations that are supported by their own  Bionic Digital Platform s 
populated with AI-driven Bionic Agents that animate  specific Bionic Technologies that 
“fuse” Bionic capabilities with human processes  and workflows  at the most intimate levels  
of human activity . A Bionic Enterprise is ubiquitous , persistent, and encompasses a broad 
array of multi -model user interfaces and experiences . Augmented reality, virtual reality, 
synthetic reality are commonplace. The human -centric Bionic Enterprise is hyper -
connected, hyper -aware, hyper intelligent, hyper -converged, and  hyper-adaptive.  
Improving  human and organizational performance and potential  at all levels  across all 
aspects of our society  is its purpose .  
 


The Bionic Enterprise : Architecting the Intelligent Society of the Future  
 
Page 2 
 A 2019 Gartner Study stated that “Agent interfaces 
represent a whole new paradigm of human -
computer interaction and have broad implications 
that will greatly influence how enterprises interact 
with customers, offer services and provide tools to 
employees.”  
 
There are many brilliant AI researchers and implementers across all industries and facets 
of society, but what is lacking is a comprehensive framework that addresses all aspects of 
an organization (human, technology, and transformation) . This framework provides a 
means of blending the technologies and products from these innovative researchers and 
product developers  into a holistic enterprise framework . The Bionic Enterprise Framework 
is not focused on any specific, current AI algorithm  or technique, but on  the capabilities  
that AI and the technologies of the Fourth Industrial Revolution bring. Tools and algorithms 
change at a blinding pace, but the anchor for designing the intelligent enterprise of the 
future is the set of capability maturity models that are used to define an organization’s  
roadmap for continuous transformation.  
The Bionic Enterprise Technology Capability Maturity Model addresses functional 
capabilities that will eventually go beyond the current vision of artificial intelligence into 
artificial general intelligence, to synthetic intelligence,  and eventually to the point of 
enterprise consciousness.  
“The Bionic Enterprise is hyper -connected, hyper -
aware, hyper -converged, and hyper -intelligent , and 
hyper-adaptive.” 
The Bionic Enterprise F ramework is not a notional concept  that espouses vague musing s 
about how AI will make everything better – or everything worse. It is a detailed and directly 
actionable  reference model and transformation process for architecting and implementing 
the Bionic Enterprise of the future in any domain  or field of human endeavor.  All the 
homework is there , and yet like any effective framework, its adoption can be tailored to 
support any implementation  and show exactly where and how every techn ology fits into the 
enterprise schema.  
The framework focuses on the three types of crucial capital for the 21st century, Cognitive 
Capital (what organizations and their people know how to do), Behavioral Capital  (what 
customers, suppliers, partners, or adversaries do), Network Capital  (where and how users 


The Bionic Enterprise : Architecting the Intelligent Society of the Future  
 
Page 3 
 of a Bionic Enterprise locate , interface, and interact with the Bionic Enterprise  through a 
variety of multi -modal interfaces and experiences . 
While the possibilities are limitless, we must still prepare for and anticipate the advent of 
Dark AI – a future sentient and synthetic intelligence that may arise as a digital mutation or 
intentional creation. Dark AI will not have humanity’s best interest in mind . It may see us as 
an irrelevant obstacle to its own aspirations. Dark AI may well lead to a series of AI wars – 
digital and physical battles of good vs. evil with humanity caught in the middle.  This is 
already happening in cyberspace and is spill ing over onto the battlefields of the 21st 
century.  
 
From Theory to Implementation  
The Bionic Enterprise  Framework is beginning to be adopted by graduate students across 
DoD in various organizations . They are learning to implement the concepts and thought 
process to enable system development, acquisition and operational activities . It is being 
used to define and architect the role  and placement of Bionic Technologies and Bionic 
Capabilities (from the Bionic Capability Maturity Model) within an organization  to define its 
Bionic Digital Platform . The two books and frameworks  they describe  are being used as 
textbooks for systems engineering at the Naval Postgraduate School for  the System 
Engineering SE0495 capstone course and at Virginia Tech . 
 
The book’s foreword is by John Zachman , CEO of Zachman International and the creator of 
the Zachman Framework for Enterprise Architecture (the underlying framework for the 
Department of Defense Architecture Framework  (DoDAF) and every other enterprise 
architecture framework ). Dr. Nikhil Des hpande –Intel Corporation, Senior Director for AI 
and High-Performance  Computing and Graph Analytics  commented on the framework that 
it is “…a framework for today’s enterprises to leap into the bionic future in a responsi ble 
way.” Mike Walker –Microsoft Senior Director: Healthcare Lifesciences Digital Strategy  said, 
"The concept of a Bionic Enterprise is a critical concept to prepare organizations for the 
digital future that awaits."  
The Bionic Enterprise http://www.BionicEnterprise.tech  is a framework of frameworks that 
address the three fundamental perspectives of any organization: The Human Perspective, 
the Technology Perspective, and the Fusion Perspective , where technology and human 
activity meet to form a Bionic Enterprise . The URL above provides many large 
downloadable “canvases” that outline the concepts and sample use -cases of how the 
framework can be applied to begin to specify Bionic Functions, Bionic Technologies, Bionic 
Effects, and Bionic Capabilities to achieve those effects.  


The Bionic Enterprise : Architecting the Intelligent Society of the Future  
 
Page 4 
 The concept of a  Bionic Fusion Strand is introduced to define specifically how Bionic 
Functions enable Bionic Effects within a user experience to achieve improved outcomes 
and performance. Bionic Fusion Strand designs for different user experiences are the heart 
of the Fusion Perspective where technology meets human activity.  Bionic Fusion Strands 
are the DNA of a Bionic Enterprise.  
 
Human Perspective  
Human Perspective of an organization begins with  a Visionary Leadership Maturity Model, 
an organizational Creativity Maturity Model, and an overall Organizational Maturity Model.  
The focus on the Human Perspective helps organizations understand the importance and 
process for re -tooling and re -imagining their organizations as engines of continuous 
transformation. Without continuous transformation  to high value -producing entities , 
organizations in any field or industry rapidly become irrelevant with the ever -shrinking 
business, technology and military cycle times for innovation and transformation. The 
Bionic Enterprise  must also cultivate organizational and individual maturity to be 
comfortable with this change and embrace it.  Without visionary leaders and visionary 
leadership  to cultivate creativity and innovation in every corner of the enterprise, an 
organization cannot  achieve full Bionic Transformation and strategic advantage. The 
alternative is individual silos of excellence with stove-piped solutions that do not fit 
purposefully into a  holistic, integrated,  Bionic Enterprise Digital Platform and 
transformation vision.  
 
Technology Perspective  
The Technology Perspective  of the framework  provides fully developed  reference 
architecture frameworks  required to architect the fusion of Bionic Technologies with 
human activity. The Technology Perspective begins with Bloom’s Taxonomy – the 
intersection of Knowledge and Cognitive Processes used by educators to develop learning 
plans for students from elementary through postgraduate . The Bionic Enterprise 
Framework adopts Bloom’s Taxonomy as  a mechanism  to identify the types of cognitive  
and computational capabilities  to be realized in  AI-driven Bionic Agents. These capabilities 
are described in a  detailed Bionic Technology Capability Maturity model that spans five 
Bionic Capability Areas:  
• Bionic Capability Area 1: Interface  
• Bionic Capability Area 2: Intelligence and Cognition  
• Bionic Capability Area 3: Inte gration  
• Bionic Capability Area 4: Platform and Infrastructure  
• Bionic Capability Area 5: Transformation & Architecture  


The Bionic Enterprise : Architecting the Intelligent Society of the Future  
 
Page 5 
 The Bionic Technology Capability Maturity Model is an element of  the Technology 
Pespective of the framework and spans these capability areas . The cognitive capabilities 
described  progress in maturity and culminate with AI eventually reaching the point of The 
Singularity  – the point at which computers evolve to a point of synthetic intelligence that 
becomes as intelligent or more intelligent than humans . The framework addresses the  
implications of the Singularity and  strategies for coping with such an outcom e. Until that 
point of AI evolution  is reached,  however,  organizations can use the Bionic Enterprise 
Framework to describe, define, architect, and transform to achieve and maintain relevance 
and even dominance over peers,  or adversaries.  
“The Bionic Enterprise has opened my eyes to a 
new reality of transformation: one that fuses the 
human and technological perspectives.”  - Warren 
Vaneman, PhD , Professor – ESSP, Adjunct 
Professor Virginia Tech  
Also within the Technology Perspective is a taxonomy of Bionic Technologies , a taxonomy 
of Bionic Agent types , and most crucially, a taxonomy of detailed Bionic Functions . The 
Bionic Functions of an agent  define how the action verbs in Bloom’s Taxonomy will be 
implemented and embodied within individual AI -driven Bionic Agents to achieve the Bionic 
Effects required to improve different user experiences across the enterprise.  
 
Fusion Perspective: Transformation and Architecture  
Automating and digitalizing processes and activities isn’t good enough. The Bionic 
Enterprise focuses on value effects (Bionic Effects) and outcomes that can be achieved 
within enterprise  processes or user experience s at enterprise scale. We must design the 
intelligent society of the future as community of cooperating Bionic Enterprises  so that 
technology interfaces and interaction experiences enable desirable outcomes.  The 
transformation to a Bionic Enterprise is more than just Digital Transformation . Bionic 
transformation results in integrated Bionic Digital Platforms with converged data, hyper -
connectivity, and distributed intelligence at the edge , and those capabilities are accessible 
through the previously mentioned multi-modal interfaces and interactions . The Bionic 
Fusion Framework provides a comprehensive, integrated mechanism and process for 
conducting on -going enterprise -wide assessments using the different maturity models of 
the Bionic Enterprise Framework.  Assessments begin with the leadership, c ulture, 
organization and value streams and value -generation mechanisms of the organization . 
These targeted value streams and user experiences are  a starting point for identifying 
opportunities for user experience transformation using the Bionic User Experience Design 


The Bionic Enterprise : Architecting the Intelligent Society of the Future  
 
Page 6 
 Process. The result is a series of detailed  Bionic Fusion Strands  that describe the fusion of 
the Bionic Agents with human activities. The Fusion Perspective also provides the Bionic 
Enterprise Transformation Lifecycle  to drive continuous assessment and transformation. 
Think of it as Enterprise -scale Bionic DEVOPS.  
The resultant Bionic Enterprise must exude the core characteristics: Interactive & 
Immersive, Intelligent, Adaptive, Ubiquitous, Goal Directed, Elastic.  
 
America ’s Bridge to the AI-Driven Bionic Future  
The paradigm shift to this intelligent future requires organizations  to detect or even cause 
paradigm shifts to achieve strategic advantage within their eco -systems. The Bionic 
Enterprise Framework  informs the development of a Bionic Strategy and Roadmap, 
implementation of visionary leadership, the creative and innovative enterprise, and the 
purposeful implementation of disruptive technologies.  The fusion of human activity and 
Bionic Technologies will transform  society, education, finance, industry, and the  future of 
work and wealth.  Bionic Transformation requires organizational and cultural change and 
paradigm shifts to envision , embrace, and architect the future.  The Bionic-inspired future 
features advanced, immersive, and empathetic human interfaces to Bionic Agents and 
infrastructure that blur the line between cyberspace and the physical world. New hyper -
intelligent, human -centric companies and societies will evolve with the Bionic Enterprise 
Framework as the ir blueprint.  
 
The United States AI Strategy must embrace this comprehensive approach. It has already 
been recognized and praised by leading industry figures in related fields of digital 
transformation, robotics, system engineering, and enterprise architecture. Maintaining our 
position as the leader of the free world and keeping our adversaries at bay  without a 
comprehensive  framework for rapidly implementing continuous transformation is like  
taking on a colossal engineering feat without a blueprint or a plan to implement it. The 
Bionic Enterprise provides the vision, strategy, and framework  for USA 2.0 .  
 
--------------------------------------  
A deeper dive into the Bionic Enterprise can be found in a Defense Acquisition University 
(DAU) webinar I conducted in 2024 titled: The Bionic Enterprise – Framework for the Future  
https://www.dau.edu/events/bionic -enterprise -framework -future  
Kevin Brett Bio  
Kevin Brett is a Certified Enterprise Architect (CEA Blackbelt) through the FEAC Institute, a 
Scaled Agile Framework (SAFe) Architect. He is an IT professional with over forty years in 


The Bionic Enterprise : Architecting the Intelligent Society of the Future  
 
Page 7 
 government, defense and commercial IT project and portfolio management, space shuttle 
mission experience, and enterprise architecture. He has developed and taught a 
comprehensive, practicum -based, Black Belt Enterprise Architecture Certification course.  
Kevin has managed and led enterprise architecture programs, digital acquisition and 
engineering eco -system development, software, and systems engineering efforts, process 
automation and re -engineering for forty years. He has developed software and system 
engineering and enterprise architecture methodologies and training programs. His 
background includes development of AI rule -based systems in the fields of medical 
diagnosis for the U.S. Air Force. He developed an AI air traffic flow management adviser 
system, Smartflo, for the FAA utilizing an architecture of cooperating rule -based software 
agents to make recommendations for traffic flow management.  
Kevin also led the development of a space shuttle data communications rule -based AI 
system. The system diagnosed communications down link issues from the Spacelab 
module during space shuttle missions. Kevin has developed object -oriented modeling and 
agent-based architecture methodologies and agent -based systems with embedded AI -
agents. He spent the first half of his career as computer programmer, software engineer 
and mission analyst on a variety of projects including supporting numerous space shuttle 
missions as a member of the Space Shuttle Spacelab Team. He also developed 
communications and scheduling software for the NASA Communications (NASCOM) 
Network Control Center (NCC).  
Kevin implemented a software engineering methodology he developed, Gecko Lite, at 
NASA Ames Research Center on the NASA Grid Computing program to lend systems and 
software engineering rigor to the development efforts of the program. In support of this 
effort, he developed an extensive program of instruction to train contractors  and NASA 
engineers and developers on all aspects and phases of software and systems engineering.  
Kevin has directly implemented and led development efforts for implementation of process 
re-engineering efforts using process automation tools to automate more than a dozen 
internal corporate processes and several customer business processes. These re -
engineering efforts resulted in dramatic reductions in cycle -times and increased 
throughput and for process requests through automated tracking and notification of 
process events.  
 Kevin has led enterprise architecture teams for organizations in private industry and 
government including the Federal Aviation Administration (ATO), Environmental Protection 
Agency, the United States Marine Corps Enterprise Architecture, and the United S tates 
Marine Corps Enterprise Network Architecture. His focus and interest are on creative 


The Bionic Enterprise : Architecting the Intelligent Society of the Future  
 
Page 8 
 strategies for organizational and digital transformation supported by enterprise 
architecture and emerging technologies.  
Kevin is concerned especially with strategic planning based on understanding the current 
and future desired states of aspects of enterprise maturity as it pertains to digital 
transformation and construction of digital eco -systems. He has a keen interest in  helping 
executives, architects, and engineers develop the tools to understand and overcome 
transformation challenges and how paradigm shifts in operations, technology, culture, and 
marketplace can affect organizational direction, structure, and operations . He has 
developed analytical methods to help enterprises detect, understand, or even initiate their 
own paradigm shifts to achieve and maintain leadership positions within their domain.  
Kevin holds a B.S. in Computer and Information Science from the University of Maryland, 
University College.  
 
 
 
 


