 1  
Keysight  Technologies  Response to Request for Information on the 
Development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
 
Keysight is a leading multinational technology provider. Keysight develops solutions that 
accelerate innovation to connect and secure the world. Keysight supports mission critical 
solutions with design, emulation, complete testing, manufacturing, optimizat ion and 
network security monitoring in high growth industries.  
 
Keysight is partnered with 10/10 top automotive companies, 90% of technology 
companies, 95% of top mobile operators, 25/25 top semiconductor companies, 90% top 
aerospace and defense contractors with over 30,000 top customers in over 100 countries.  
 
With its vast knowledge of industries, markets, customers and over 15,000 employees and 
over 2,000  patents/pending  patent applications , Keysight’s experience informs its business 
strategy to drive customer success.  
AI is a transformative force with the potential to address complex business and global 
challenges. Ensuring the continued advancement of AI capabilities is essential to U.S. 
economic growth and national security.   
This document makes recommendations below in response to “Request for Information on 
the Development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan.  
• Facilitate Rapid AI Adoption  – Ensure policies encourage LLM/AI model development with 
scalable testing and minimal restrictions.  
• Strengthen AI Infrastructure  – Validate cloud and on -prem AI systems for high -usage reliability 
and secure deployment.  
• Enhance AI Security & National Defense  – Monitor AI access to sensitive data, classiﬁed 
systems, and operational networks to prevent security threats.  
• Implement Robust AI Risk Mitigation  – Establish safeguards against data exﬁltration, model 
poisoning, and unauthorized AI use in government and private sectors.  
  


2 Focus Areas  
1. Encouraging AI Adoption
a. U.S. companies are rapidly integrating LLMs,  ML, SLMs, and agentic AI technologies to
enhance eJiciency and maintain global leadership.
b. Policies should facilitate the rapid development of internal LLMs and AI applications, 
incorporating scalable testing of user workﬂows.
2. Enhancing AI Infrastructure for Scalable Deployment
a. Policies should support the validation of cloud and on -premises AI infrastructure to
ensure reliability under high -usage conditions.
b. AI models must be production -ready with conﬁdence in their performance, security,
and eJiciency.
3. Strengthening AI Security & National Defense
a. AI is being weaponized to exploit vulnerabilities, automate cyberattacks, and undermine
existing security frameworks. This requires improvements in automated responses
given the speed of these AI augmented cyber weapon systems.
b. AI strengthens cybersecurity by enhancing threat detection, decision -making, and risk
identiﬁcation . AI-driven cybersecurity solutions should be leveraged to protect national
interests while mitigating adversarial AI threats.
c. Policies should support comprehensive monitoring of AI use across networks,
particularly where access to sensitive data, classiﬁed information, and operational or
weapons systems could pose national security risks.
4. Mitigating AI -Driven Risks & Ensuring Secure AI Use
a. Both controlled and open -source AI models are susceptible to manipulation, data
extraction, and intellectual property theft.
b. AI systems must include safeguards to prevent unauthorized access and leakage of
conﬁdential information.
c. Policies should ensure seamless monitoring and visibility into AI use within government 
agencies and the private sector.
To maintain U.S. leadership in AI, policies should prioritize innovation, security, and responsible 
development while ensuring AI infrastructure and applications are scalable, secure, and resistant 
to adversarial threats. Additionally, AI security policies  must safeguard national security interests 
by monitoring AI's role in accessing sensitive data and operational systems.   


 3 Recommended AI Actions  
1. Continuous AI Application Development  
To support key innovations and adoption of AI in the public and private sector, it is critical 
that rapid progress is made with frontier models of AI. Being able to develop, validate, and 
continue the iterative process is critical and necessary for the US to keep and gain on its 
competitive advantage.  
It is critical to optimize the speed of creating and automating test -case creation to cover 
various AI ﬁrst use -case journeys for an improved UX ﬂow, ﬁnding defects and ultimately 
improving time to market.  
Policies should be put in place that assist in the rapid development o f internal LLM or AI 
model application s with an integrated process to rapidly test the user workﬂow at scale.  
• Leverage AI & Digital Twin Testing  – Enhance test coverage, user experience, and QA 
eJiciency.  
• Automate Cross -Platform Testing  – Ensure compatibility across all devices and platforms.  
• Validate AI Application Interfaces  – Monitor performance (TPS, CPS) and detect UI errors.  
• Optimize for Speed & Security  – Use a fast, secure, and user -friendly testing solution.  
 
2. AI Infrastructure Validation  And Security Hardening  
To support high -performance AI frontier models and applications, advanced infrastructure 
is a key competitive advantage. Cutting -edge data center technologies —including 
compute, DPU, GPU, storage, and networking —are essential. Optimizing costs, e`iciency,  
and operations enables the U.S. private and public sectors to drive innovation while 
minimizing operational expenses.  
 
Continuously monitor, assess, and validate the performance and security posture of the AI 
infrastructure by implementing automated testing, and rigorous security audits. Use high 
performance benchmark solutions to gain e`iciency, with regular checks on se curity 
protocols to mitigate emerging threats.   
 
Policies should be put in place that assist in validating Cloud and on -premises AI 
infrastructure that can handle high usage and be brought int o production with conﬁdence.  
 
• Deploy Flexible TraQic Agents  – Use containers, VMs, Kubernetes, or cloud (AWS, GCP , 
Azure) for scalable testing.  
• Simulate Real AI & Application Workloads  – Validate performance under real -world 
conditions.  


 4 • Test Training Workload Performance  – Measure TPS, CPS, throughput, and IP scale.  
• Assess Security & Attack Mitigation  – Simulate cyber threats and malicious AI prompts to 
strengthen defenses.  
3.Monitoring AI Operations
Network Visibility is crucial for maintaining operational excellence, optimizing network, 
application and user experience, ensuring compliance of data at rest and data in motion 
and importantly, maintaining security against nation -state and cyberattacks.  
With the rise of ransomware and AI -generated advanced persistent threats (APT), network 
visibility has an ever -increasing importance in delivering enhanced security, compliance, 
incidence response, deep forensics and for operational insights.  
There is a need to promote collaboration between regulatory agencies, private sector 
cybersecurity professionals, AI infrastructure operators and AI architects and developers to 
help establish safeguards to mitigate evolving AI -based risks and AI -targeted attacks.  
Policies should be put in place that allow seamless network monitoring  and visibility into 
the use of AI in government agencies and private sector to prevent malicious use, including 
data exﬁltration or model poisoning or ways to circumvent guardrails on AI to perform tasks 
that would otherwise not be authorized.  
• Enable Visibility into the  Use of AI  – Monitor critical network segments with unauthorized 
use of AI  or use of AI in unintended domains.  
• Leverage Deep Packet Inspection (DPI)  – Ensure detailed data analysis for detecting and 
ﬁltering GenAI applications.  
• Enhance Detection Across TraQic Types  – Apply ﬁltering to both encrypted and cleartext 
traJic, with advanced options for cleartext.  
• Implement Decryption Capabilities  – Gain visibility into GenAI application layers, crucial 
for analyzing encrypted traJic.  
• Use Session -Aware Detection  – Gain better accuracy over traditional packet -based 
ﬁltering.  
• Perform Deep Packet Inspection (DPI)  – Analyze multiple protocol headers and payloads, 
including encrypted traJic (SSL, TLS, QUIC).  
• Leverage Application Signatures  – Enable high -performance real -time detection and 
ﬁltering.  
• Utilize Dynamic & Static Signatures  – Apply both for ﬂexible ﬁltering and metadata 
generation.  


 5 Sample Architecture of AI Development, Infrastructure and Monitoring  
This includes continuous development, user acceptance testing for private AI platforms and 
applications . Further, the ability to stress test complete AI infrastructure such as compute, storage 
and networking I/O capabilities in the cloud or on -premises.  
Operational network visibility is required to monitor the use of generative AI, use of Agentic AI for 
deep network and business automations and implementation of defense in depth in support of 
maintaining security threats monitoring to detect and respond in real -time.  
 
 
 
Remarks and Recommendation  
Implementing these recommendations will not only strengthen the U.S. AI ecosystem, but 
it will also drive signiﬁcant economic beneﬁts.  
By accelerating AI development, optimizing AI infrastructure, and enhancing security for AI 
applications through network visibility, both the public and private sectors will beneﬁt from 
leading -edge innovations while reducing operational costs.  
A streamlined, secure, and high -performing AI landscape will attract investments, enhance 
global competitiveness, and advance new market opportunities.  
Furthermore, proactive policies that support AI -driven advancements can promote 
economic growth, ensuring that the U.S. remains at the forefront of the AI revolution in the 
new digital economy.  


 6 Keysight Contact And Use in Public Dissemination  
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or conﬁdential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
Contact: Taranjeet Singh, Keysight Technologies  
 


