2/28/2025 via FDMS  
Kimberly Moore  
Dr Mr. President Donald Trump. My name is Kimberly Ann Moore. I'm sure u are aware of the 
name I'm in Utica Michigan where my Macomb county ,Michigan This is where my community 
has corrupt, embezzling money, hiring illegal bookies monopolizing with Google platform to do 
all this unacceptable activity, noticing third party counties locations access always. All files for 4 
yrs I've been going through he'll with this community.Following me for 4 hrs now,I've definitely 
had some time with the people here everyw here I went they were there.i also had security teams 
on my phone pulling files any support and help tremendously. I need to address an issue with 
u.Ive seen activity in my apartment complex with the park behind me where groups were
spotted. I sorry I didn 't give you any notice of this but I wish you could understand what I just
went through with my local Utica police station and I drove there and asked them if they could
protrol the area tonight 2/2824 because I've seen unaware issues. I told them what hap pened and
what I've been going through past 4yrs with there community. I never felt so unworthy and I
shed some tears explaining what and why I needed their assistance and if he would have a look at
the phone what's going on and effecting our world at this  point. He yelled at me and said I don't
want to get into your politics which I felt like I was just nothing to the community and the family
had the same issues. I would please like to address this Utica police station when I was asking
for help they didn' t want me to even know what me and family felt about the situation and say
some comforting words to at least give me some relief and make it a better night to putrol my
area closer tonight I said to him a few words that we acceptable. I would like to file a gervience
how I was treating in a life threatening situation. Please take this information and let me try to
understand what I did that I have to be treated like this. I'm hurt,feel I have no respect and rights
in this Macomb county,family wasn't worth g iving any chance to serve and try to respect with
my family and life threatening endangered 4yrs with my heart was so hurt . I please would like to
address a situation with out any respect for me and family. Thank u and I appreciate you
listening to me thi s really is a very bad thing to treat a person that has a life threatening issue and
crying with fear..I'm not gonna have any other person who is supposed to serve and protect their
community, country disrespect anyone I just want u to know what I can


