From: Knight Lee
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan: Please consider this serious inconsistency
Date: Tuesday, March 11, 2025 2:56:26 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
To whom it may concern,
1: AGI threatens the US (and NATO) as much as all military threats combined. Why
does the US spend $800 billion/year on its military but less than $0.1 billion/year on AIalignment/safety?
2: AGI being equally dangerous isn't an extreme opinion: the median superforecaster
sees a 2.1% chance of an AI catastrophe (killing 1 in 10 people), the median AI expertsees 5%-12%, other experts see 5%, and the general public sees 5%. To justify 8000times less spending, you must be 99.999% sure of no AI catastrophe, and thus
 99.95%
sure that you won't realize you were wrong and the majority of experts wereright
 (if you studied the disagreement further).
3: “But military spending isn't just for protecting NATO, it protects other countries farmore likely to be invaded.” Even they are not 8000 times less likely to be attacked byAGI. US foreign aid is only $100 billion/year, so protecting them can't be the realreason for military spending.
4: The real reason for the 8000fold difference is habit, habit, and habit. Foreign invasion
concerns have decreased decade by decade, and AGI concerns have increased year byyear, but budgets remained within the status quo, causing a
 massive inconsistency
between belief and behaviour.
5: Do not let humanity's story be so heartbreaking.
Sources are listed in https://forum.effectivealtruism.org/posts/AjKvdQAYR5huFFR73/a-


better-statement-on-ai-risk-crosspost
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the governmentin developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
Thank you for your time,
Knight Lee
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


