March 14,  2025  
Submitte d via Email to:  
National S cience Foundation (NSF), Net working and Information Technology Research and 
Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO)  
2415 Eisenhower Ave.  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Attention:  Faisal D’Souza, Techni cal Coordinator, NITRD NCO  
RE: Reques t for Information – Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan 
Dear Mr. D ’Souza:  
We write t o offer comments in response to the “Request for Information (RFI) – Development 
of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan,” which was published in the Federal Register on 
February 6, 2025.  [ 90 FR 9088 ]. 
COGR is  the national authority on federal policies and regulations affecting U.S. research 
institutions. We provide a unified voice for over 22 5 research universities and affiliated 
academic medical centers and research institutes. Our work strengthens the research partnership between the federal government and research institutions and furthers the frontiers of science, technology, and knowledge.  We advocate for effective and efficient 
research policies and regulations that maximize and safeguard research investments and minimize administrative and cost burdens . 
In the RF I, NSF NITRD NCO, on behalf of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), 
invites comments on the “highest priority policy actions that should be [included] in the new Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan ” to be developed pursuant to Executive Order 14179, 
Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence .  Although we do not 
presently have comments regarding the technical aspects of the AI Action Plan, we offer  
recommendations regarding the Action Plan’s  overarching approach.  
A key fac tor to ensu ring American AI leadership  is the dev elopment of  federal policy that fully 
empowers and facilitates the ability of U.S. academic research institu tions  to conduct research 
activities concerning all aspects of AI – technical, social, and ethical.  One important action 
that OSTP can take to help achieve this crucial goal is to ensure that any AI Action Plan incorporates a  requirement for clear, consistent, and harmonized regulations, polic ies, and 
guidance across all federal agencies that intend to regulate research on  AI or the use of AI in 
research activities.  Such cross -agency consistency will promote more effective and efficient 
compliance by enabling institutions to develop unified policies, process es, systems, and 
training.   


Additionally,  the AI Action Plan should ensure that regulatory requirements are tailored to 
address specific, identified risks.  Employing  this calibrated  risk-based approach will help to 
avoid unnecessarily burdensome regulation that can hamper efforts to use and study AI . 
We appreciate the opportunity to comment  on this RFI.  Should you have any questions 
regarding these comments, please contact me or Kristin West, COGR’s Director of Research 
Ethics and Compliance at 
Sincere ly, 
Matt Owens  
President  
Note:  This document is approved for public dissemination.  The document contains no business-proprietary
or confidential information.  Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 


