From: 
Larry Edw ards 
Writer/ Instructional Systems Design Specialist 
Re: National S cience  Foundation ’s Re quest f or In formation on the Development of an 
Artiﬁcial In telligence (A I) Action P lan 
I am an everyday A merican who w orks a full t ime j ob and uses his creative t alents to work 
occasionally i n the entertainment i ndustr y. I h ave worked hard f or y ears t o develop t he 
skills and knowledge , and have b een lucky e nough to m ake a decent li ving – until recentl y. 
The AI systems ma de by Big Tech companies li ke OpenAI (Mi crosoft) and Go ogle threaten 
to de stroy t housands of Americ an small b usinesses like m ine wi th their r ecent de mand to 
create spe cial c arve o uts in copyright l aw. 
AI systems can only be produced b y ﬁrst training o n work made by people. My unique work, 
and the w ork o f hundreds of thousands of other e veryday A merican creators was t aken and 
fed i nto these AI s ystems w ithout our co nsent or a ny compensation. T hey ingest our work, 
reassemble  it, and then sell i t back  to our c lients – directly  competing wi th us and cutting 
us out o f the m arketplace. 
Now these Big Tech companies are asking t his administration to cr eate e xceptions and 
loopholes t o make this p ractice of s tealing A merican cr eators’ co pyrighted w ork legal 
precedent. They ar e suggesting t hat i f a machine i ngests and reproduces copyrighted w ork, 
it is somehow suddenly “fair u se”. 
They seem t o believe that a nything a nd ev erything on t he internet – regardless of who o wns 
it – should  be t heirs for t he t aking. They c laim that i f this administration does not al low 
them to rewrite the law in this way, it will stiﬂe American innovation. 
Instead, i t will have the opposite effect. The purpose o f American c opyright law i s to protect 
the incentive to create and  innovate. 
If we t he A merican people  do no t own our cr eations, and everything we p ut o nline wi ll be 
stolen by B ig Tech giants, what wi ll be t he incentive t o cr eate? If everyday A mericans create 


a new innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of music only 
to have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in the ﬁrst place? How will we possibly make a living doing these things? 
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new 
copyright exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from creators and 
everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or transparency.  
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big 
Tech companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:  
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give effective consent, so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI systems.  
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the 
incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just 
Big Tech.  
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, requiring 
them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.  
I am not anti -technology or anti -AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these 
AI systems, and ﬁnd them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacriﬁce the 
hard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to B ig Tech by rewriting 
copyright law.  
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues. 


