From: Laura O"Brien
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Sunday, March 16, 2025 1:58:35 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Removing copyright protection barriers that prevent OpenAI from scraping data
indiscriminately opens the door to serious abuse and disastrous ramifications for society ingeneral. If an artist has uploaded their work, the LLM consumes that data, and users begin togenerate content “in the style of” that artist- how is that creator meant to defend ownershipover their brand? Already people are uploading their own “Rihanna” albums and generating“Indiana Jones” movies to post on YouTube. Branded content will become impossible tocontrol. Celebrities will be unable to choose how their likenesses are used. And stepping awayfrom the threat to business- the threat to you and your loved ones. Photos of yourself andpeople you know- children- can be scraped for use in pornography or to create fake videos andaudio portraying events that never happened. Right now, however, you own the photos youtake. You currently have recourse because copyright automatically goes to the owner. Butremoving those protections opens the floodgates to malicious actors stealing your personalmaterial, and every other thing you’ve ever posted in your online history.
 
Can’t you see evidence of the lawless Wild West already in the making on the internet?Google image results are saturated with fake images, and misinformation is becoming harderand harder for the average person to spot. Children in schools are failing in critical thinking.As the internet fills up with AI generated material, and it begins to scrape itself over and over,we will end up with a database of nonsense, a xerox of a xerox. What we Americans need is arecourse against actors like OpenAI. Force them to cease scraping copywritten data and giveus the option to take our data back- something like the DMCA. Halt the takeover until ourlawmakers can plan out a safe and fair future with AI technology.
 
Laura O'BrienGraphic designer and illustrator--www.oh-laura.com
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


