From: Lauren Bond
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Sunday, March 16, 2025 2:06:57 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
March 14, 2025
From:
Lauren Bond
Game Designer
Seattle, WA
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an  
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am a a creative professional in the video game industry. As a writer I have worked hard for  
years to develop the skills and knowledge to build my career, and have been fortunate to  
establish a living in the game industry.The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google  
threaten to destroy thousands of American creative businesses industries like 
games with recent demand to create special carve outs in copyright law.
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work made by people. My unique work,  
and the work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators was taken and  
fed into these AI systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest our work,  
reassemble it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly competing with us and cutting us  
out of the marketplace.Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and  
loopholes to make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legal  
precedent. They are suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work,  
it is somehow suddenly “fair use”.
 
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of who  
owns it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allow  
them to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to  
protect the incentive to create and innovate.
 


If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be  
stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans  
create a new innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece of  
music only to have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it in  
the first place? How will we possibly make a living doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new 
copyright exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from  
creators and everyday Americans without permission, compensation, or 
transparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big  
Tech companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give  
effective consent, so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI 
systems.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, 
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what  
content is AI generated.
We should not sacrifice the hard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans or endanger  
the ongoing ability for them to create and innovate by rewriting copyright law to destroy  
their ability to own their own work.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.
Lauren Bond
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


