3/14/2025  via FDMS  
Helen Lauzau,  
"Prevent unnecessarily burdensome requirements from hindering private sector innovation." This 
seems to be implying that the regulations that protect everyday Americans from being taken 
advantage of by the, mega corporation, private sector are in the way of unregulated AI use. This can only be at the expense of the American public. As an artist who shares their work online, I absolutely reject the AI Action Plan. This will do harm to so many small businesses and creators, who relay on our ability to post our work to online platforms. This includes, but is not limited to, Artist, Writers, Programmers, YouTube Creators, Publishers, ect. Requirements such as copyright, help protect our work from being stolen and used without our consent. Allowing the private se ctor though the use of AI, to steal and use our work without consent is highly unethical 
and is harmful our livelihoods. The private sector (or even the public sector) should not be allowed to use our work without permission and proper compensation. This w ill not "promote 
human flourishing, economic competitiveness" it will only fill the pockets of rich investors, while starving the working class and the poor.  
The supposed goal is ridiculous: "Prevent unnecessarily burdensome requirements from 
hindering private sector innovation." I make art and I also buy from artists online; generative AI is a scourge and destroying their ability to run their small businesses. The AI Action plan must be rejected. AI has gutted entire industries already, especially those in Art and Animation. AI is not allowed to train on our work or writing, it is our intellectual property. It is not allowed to train on our art. Intellectual property law is clear on this. It is illegal for companies like OPEN AI to train its models on our work without permission. They know it, we know it, and won't give them permission, especially without being paid for it. They get to steal from small business and users online by scraping the internet, then we're expected to let them profit off of that? It is illegal and unethical and courts are already deciding this. AI tools should be demolished and nowhere near use in government. The ongoing and further theft , misuse, misinformation, 
disinformation, and abuse by businesses and the government is too great. Copyright must be extended, and by default, AI models should not be legally allowed to train on works that they are not given explicit (not implied) permission to do so. Additionally, the environmental damage from using these "tools" that we do not need is catastrophic. There can be no "promoting human flourishing" with tools that guzzle water and resources for little benefit that cannot already be accomplishe d with people- centered methods that are less resource- intensive. Getting rid of AI 
promotes humanity and work for human beings.  
 


