 1  
 
 
 
COMMENTS OF THE LIBRARY COPYRIGHT ALLIANCE ON REMOVING 
BARRIERS TO AMERICAN LEADERSHIP IN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  
 
 
 This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution . 
 
 The Library Copyright Alliance (“LCA”) consists of the American Library Association 
and the Association of Research Libraries. These two library associations represent over 100,000 
libraries in the United States employing over 3 00,000 librarians and other personnel.  
 
 LCA appreciates the opportunity to respond to the Networking and Information 
Technology Research and Development Nation al Coordination Offic e, National Science 
Foundation , request for input on the development of an A rtificial Intelligence  (“AI”) Action Plan 
directed towards sustaining and enhancing America’s AI dominance. We believe the highest 
priority action items relate  to two dimensions of ensuring that copyright law does not become a 
barrier to the development of AI : 
 
• First, the courts should treat the ingestion of content necessary to power many AI 
activities as a fair use under 17 U.S.C. § 107. To that end, the Actio n Plan should call for 
the Administration to file amicus  briefs in support of fair use in appropriate cases.  
 
• Second, license terms purporting t o abridge the fair use rights of users should not be 
enforced. This can be achieved under theories such as conflict preemption advocated by 
the Administration in amicus  briefs in litigation . 
 
 These issues are discussed below in greater detail.  
 
I. Preserv ing Fair Use  
 
 American leadership in AI is  attributable in large measure to the fair use  right, codified at 
17 U.S.C. § 107. For more than two decades, both academic and commercial AI researchers have 
swept up enormous amounts of content from disparate so urces, including the Internet, in the 
course of developing AI processes. Most  of this content is protected by copyright, and the 
amount of content needed for AI training is so vast that identifying all the rightsholders and 
receiving their permission is a practical impossibility. Fortunately for U.S. AI researchers, a 


 2 series of appellate  fair use decisions starting in the early 1990s provided a legal basis for this 
aggregation without the rightsholders’ authorization.1  
 
 In contrast, t he UK Copyright, Desi gn, and Patent Act was amended only in 2014 to 
permit the copying incidental to computational analysis, and then just for non -commercial 
purposes. Copying for computational  analysis was allowed in the EU and Japan in 2019. This 
mean t that the legal environment in the United States provided U.S.  AI researchers as much as a 
two-decade lead time advantage  over competitors in Europe and Japan.  
 
 To be sure, the U.S. appellate decisions referenced above  did not concern generative  AI; 
but the rea soning of the courts in these cases weigh heavily in favor of a fair use finding in the 
pending cases concerning generative AI. Nonetheless, some of the preliminary district court 
decisions in the recent surge of AI cases2 suggest that the courts could ben efit from the 
Administration’s views on the fair use nature of the copying incidental to the training of AI 
models.3 In appropriate cases, the Administration should file amicus  briefs stressing the 
enormous public benefits of AI to the United States, and h ow these benefits greatly outweigh the 
speculative harm caused to copyright owners by the act of ingestion. The Supreme Court in 
Google v. Oracle , 141 S. Ct. 1183, 1206 (2021), underscored that the fair use calculus  often  
“must take into account the public  benefits the copying” under consideration is likely to produce. 
The Administration must make clear to the courts the public benefit of continued American 
leadership in AI.4 
 
 In the unlikely event that the courts apply fair use so narrowly that the development of 
generative AI is constrained, the Administration should urge Congress to enact legislation to 
                                                
1 Sega Enterprises Ltd. v. Accolade, Inc ., 977 F.2d 1510 (9th Cir. 1992)  and Sony Computer 
Entertainment, Inc.  v. Connectix Corp. , 203 F.3d 596 (9th Cir.  2000 ) permitted  
the copying of entire computer programs in the course of reverse engineering for the purpose of 
extracting the information necessary to achiev e interoperability. Following these precedents, 
Kelly v. Arriba Soft Corp ., 336 F.3d 811 (9th Cir. 2003) , Perfect 10, Inc., v. Amazon.com, Inc ., 
508 F.3d 1146 (9th Cir. 2007) , A.V. ex rel. Vanderhye v. iParadigms, LLC , 562 F.3d 630 (4th 
Cir. 2009) , Authors Guild, Inc. v. HathiTrust , 755 F.3d 87 (2d Cir. 2014) , and Authors Guild v. 
Google, Inc ., 804 F.3d 202 (2d Cir. 2015) , all approved reproductions during the course of 
various artificial intelligence  processes . 
2 Ali Sternburg, Scholars Agree Opinion in Thomson -Reuters v. Ross Should be Disregarded , 
Disruptiv e Competition (Feb. 28, 2025), https://project -disco.org/intellectual -property/scholars -
agree -opinion -in-thomson -reuters -v-ross-should -be-disregarded/.  
3 The Administration should, in appropriate cases, also file amicus  briefs arguing that the 
removal of copyright management information during the AI training process does not violate 17 
U.S.C. § 1202.  
4 In general, the Administration should take a more favorable view toward fair use than previous 
Administrations. In 2014 , the revenue from industries reliant on fair use was $5.6 trillion. The 
value added by these industries to the U.S. economy was over $2.8 trillion. Computer & 
Communications Industry Association, Fair Use in the U.S. Economy  (2017), 
https://ccianet.org/wp -content/uploads/2017/06/Fair -Use-in-the-U.S.-Economy -2017.pdf . These 
numbers are significantly larger now.  

 3 enable the advancement of this technology. As noted, o ther countries with sophisticated 
technology sectors have enact ed provisions in their copyright laws that facilitate AI. The United 
States must not place itself at a competitive disadvantage relative to other countries by hindering 
the evolution of this important tool. But at this point, we should let the courts —with the 
Administration’s guidance —apply fair use principles to the many different fact patterns 
presented in the cases centering on ingestion.  
 Although the ingestion of  works for AI training purposes generally is a fair use, the 
copyright status of the AI’s outputs  must be considered separately . If an AI produces a work that 
is substantially similar in protected expression to a work that was ingested by the AI, that new 
work likely infringes the copyright in the original work.5   
 
II. Limiting the Adverse I mpact of License Terms  
 
 While the appellate  court decisions demonstrate that the ingestion of copyrighted 
materials for the purpose of an AI process is a fair use, the terms of click -wrap6 and browse -
wrap7 license terms imposed by database providers and website operators could prohibit the 
ingestion of material.  With browsewrap licenses, there are serious questions whether there was 
sufficient manifestation of assent to form a binding contra ct.8 Moreover, strong arguments can be 
made that browsewrap and c lickwrap licenses inconsistent with th e fair use right are preempted 
either by the C onstitution9 or 17 U.S.C. § 301(a).10  
 
 Notwithstanding these arguments, there is contrary authority.11 When this issue arises 
again in the courts, the Administration should  file amicus  briefs arguing that contractual 
prohibitions on copying otherwise permitted by fair use are not enforceable .12 If the courts 
ultimately get this issue wrong, and rule in favor of rightsholders unilaterally eviscerating fair 
use via contract, the Administration should urge Congress to enact legislation making clear that 
                                                
5 www.librarycopyrightalliance.org/wp -content/u ploads/2023/06/AI -principles.pdf.  
6 In a click -wrap license, the user must click on an “I agree” icon in order to access digital 
material such as a database or a website.  
7 In a browse -wrap license, a website’s terms of service declare that by using the website, the 
user agrees to the website’s terms of service.  
8 See Nguyen  v. Barnes & Noble , 763 F. 3d 1171 (9th Cir. 2014).  See generally  Jonathan Band 
and Krista Cox, The Enforceability of License Restrictions on Ingestion for Artificial Intelligence 
Training Purposes , available at  arl.org (April 2024).  
9 See Vault Corp. v. Quaid Software Ltd , 847 F.2d 255 (5th Cir. 1988) ; X Corp. v. Bright Data 
Ltd., (N.D. Cal. May 9, 2024) .  
10 See Data General Corp. v. Grumman Sytems Support Corp. , 36 F.3d 1147 (1st Cir.  1994);  ML 
Genius Holdings LLC v. Google LLC , No. 20 -3113 (2d Cir. Mar. 10, 2022); 1 Nimmer on 
Copyright § 1.01[B][1][a][i] . 
11 See Meyer v. Uber Technologies, Inc. , 868 F.3d 66 (2d Cir. 2017); Bowers v. Baystate Techs., 
Inc., 320 F.3d 1317 (Fed. Cir. 2003) , cert. denied , 539 U.S. 928 (2003); Davidson & Assoc. v. 
Jung , 422 F.3d 630 (8th Cir. 2005); ProCD, Inc. v. Zeidenber g, 86 F.3d 1447 (7th Cir. 1996).  
12 This issue is different from bot exclusion headers, such as robot.txt, which website operators 
can employ to prevent their sites from being crawled for AI training purposes. Most AI firms 
respect these bot exclusion headers voluntarily.  

4 exceptions a nd limitations provide d in the Copyright Act prevail over license terms inconsistent 
with those exceptions. It shoul d be noted that for over thirty years, the Europea n Uni on has 
include d contract preemption clauses i n its directives.13 It has recognize d that it woul d be 
pointless t o require Member States t o adopt exceptions if private parties could simpl y override 
them by contract. Significantly, Article 7(1) of the Digital Single Market (“ DSM ”) Directive 
voids a ny contractual provision contrary t o Article 3, which permits text and data mining by 
researc h organizations a nd cultural heritage institutions for scientific research. 
III. Conclusion
To sustai n and enhance America’s current AI dominance, U.S. courts must continue to 
find the ingesti on of content neede d for AI processes t o be a fair use. To assist the courts 
achievi ng this result, the AI Acti on Plan shoul d state that the Administrati on will file amicus 
briefs i n appropriate cases explaini ng the public benefit of AI. Likewise, the AI Acti on Plan 
shoul d aver that the Administrati on will file amicus briefs articulating the positi on that licenses 
prohibiti ng ingestion for AI purposes shoul d not be permitte d to trump the fair use right.  
Respectfull y submitted, 
Jonatha n Band 
LCA Counsel 
March 14, 2025  
13 See Jonathan Band,  Protecting User Rights Against Contract Override , PIJIP/TLS Research 
Paper Series (May 2023) https://digitalcommons.wcl.american.edu/research/97.  

