3/4/2025 via FDMS  
Lester Crafton  
I believe every major tech company should willingly combine forces to build a national scale AI 
project as soon as humanly possible under the brand of U -S-A. We don't have enough time or 
enough resources to have a scattered effort. This is too important. W e don't get another shot. 
Let's win. It's worth ALL the money if we win, so let's start being real --this is about CPU and 
Energy, so who cares how much money it takes? Let's build it. I believe there should be a 
supermassive national effort and incentives and programs to encourage the adoption of high 
voltage solar + storage + V2G integration + generator + smart, secure controls with load 
shedding microgrids. I believe this bc I am aware a 1 GW cluster like Meta just announced uses 
the same power in two hou rs the cotton gin near me uses in two months running 24/7 to gin 
25,000 acres of cotton. And that means the grid's about to get wild and blackouts are coming no 
matter how much we drill, baby, drill. And if blackouts are coming, people are gonna be mad 
and not too fired up to support our national AI effort which we need to win. So let's keep their 
lights on using the smartest possible tech to do it while we drill baby drill. It helps ppl not be 
pissed and stay focused on the national goal when their power s tays on and they stay connected 
and productive no matter how whacky the grid gets. And the cool thing is that it supports other 
national goals too like grid security, solving intermittent energy, reduction of plant food in the 
atmosphere, and most importan tly resiliency of the most important kind --energy security --
lowering FEMA costs. These programs should start with critical infrastructure and places that 
bring together community so at the very least there are some places to gather in the darkness 
before we have time to build out the entire DER system across all neighborhoods when being a 
microgrid tech is just about the only job left to do. And this will be unpopular, but all energy 
moving forward needs to be owned and secured by the DoD. We don't have tim e for capitalism. 
Time for the only group with a consistent record of being able to defend American interests 
across all time should control the energy for the most important technology ever created. But 
first, we gotta make more power and be able to acces s it instantly, securely, and intelligently 
when we need it most. We gotta guard the grid. All of that's possible. We need all the power we 
can get. More than we can imagine. Sooner than we can imagine. Let's go for it all out. Let's drill 
baby drill then turn those critical minerals into solar panels and batteries we need to integrate 
renewables without wrecking grid security. And let's make sure all of the hospitals and schools 
and water facilities and churches and small businesses can produce their own p ower as soon as 
possible so they don't have to compete with the computers for power and can even chip in when 
they have a little extra and serve as grid guardians. Let's win this thing for all the humans forever 
or go out in a blaze of whatever comes next.  I would ask for you to keep it safe, but that's too 
much to ask as any intellectually honest person knows. So if it's gonna go down, let's do it fast.  


