 
   3/11/2025 via FDMS  
Lisa M. Broomfield   
All I know is that AI has the capacity - as much as a nuclear weapon, and in some ways worse 
b.c it is silent - to disrupt forever more our sovereignty and privacy, our health. Transhumanism 
and AI go (human) hand in (robot) hand. AI can be numbered within  the Top 4 of topics for 
which there is an ESSENTIAL Need for Oversight and Regulation (along with 
medicine/pharmaceuticals, agriculture/environmental toxins/FDA regulations, and 
geoengineering; all things that affect citizens on a day -to-day basis and hav e a HUGE effect on 
individual lives/health with no recourse once set in motion; all 4 a Pandora's box). I appreciate 
most everything President Trump is doing (to say, I don't have TDS) and I am the biggest 
proponent I know for individual freedom, hence les s regulations, but I have heard that AI is 
being unregulated and it literally makes me shake in my boots and throw my hands up in 
complete, I do not exaggerate, despair. May I point out, that is like unregulating nuclear 
weapons. AI not only needs to be re gulated, it needs to be paused NOW - before it is too late. 
Not that there aren't thousands of positive uses for AI that can enhance humanity, but the 
possible harm far outweighs the benefits until it can be accurately assessed, not to mention 
precisely de terminded how it can be contained. Time is needed to create a strategy for moving 
forward. A strategy for the whole world since nothing creates One World like AI. Give the world 
time for a breather. Suss out the far -ranging possibilities when (not if) AI i s misused. Set up 
boundaries and strategies and back up plans. Then create more back up plans. And more again. 
Biggest opposition to this idea: What about China and all the other countries who are not 
stopping and have ill intent? To be behind is to loose,  possibly to bring on exactly what I, and 
hundreds of thousands of others, are fearing with an even worse scenario of no control 
whatsoever. Back to the nuclear analogy, MAD (mutual assured destruction) and SALT 
(Strategic Arms Limitation Treaties) were fa r from perfect, but they provided enough time to 
evaluate. (I am not looking for petty arguments on how they were flawed, I am using them as an 
example of how they were used as policies of negotiation.) We need an AI MAD and SALT. 
President Trump has no he sitation in wielding Teddy Roosevelt's Big Stick. He is respected 
world wide because he uses it and we are seeing that use almost every day. Please use it here, 
President Trump. I don't exactly know how and it is more complicated because who is to know 
what is going on in back rooms or even on a single computer, but if you make the penalty harsh 
enough (the big stick) other countries will listen. It always comes out eventually. When it does, 
let them know that you will bring the stick down. This is not a fo rever proposition, it is a let us 
make sure we have a landing pad before we jump off the final cliff. There were what? I'll make 
up a number. Let's say 11 safeguards that had to go wrong for the nuclear meltdown at 
Chernobyl. How it could advance that far without a preordained safeguard kicking in seems 
unimaginable. But it did. We are at some level before 11 (I don't know enough to know which) 
on AI safeguards. Don't let it get to 11. This is MUCH bigger than Chernobyl. If we are too far 
gone to draw it in : the programming is out there and knowledge is power and there is no putting 
it back in a box, then bring together the best minds you know and figure out how to mitigate 
where we are without allowing AI to gain more traction. Come up with an AI Reagan Str ategic 
Defense Initiative. Find ways to stop it before it has a chance to hit the earth and irrevocably 
destroy all in its path. On the positive side, as evaluations are considered, invite the world in to 
collaborate. Create TRUE unity and accord. Not homo geny and one world order (God forbid), 


 
   but a drawing together in the realization that this is too powerful to let it go astray. We did it with 
all the wrong information and in mostly all the wrong ways with covid. But the greatest silver 
lining is that we saw a world that not only could come to gether, but one that wanted to come 
together. It was convoluted in a Plandemic, but the shining star was how much people cared and 
were willing to work with each other. Hold AI back from the dark and keep it pointed toward the 
light (for goodness is as inh erent in AI as its potential evil), and turn the whole thing around to 
create excitement and good will with the largest of all doses of caution. I don’t see that there is 
much other realistic choice. MAD. It's where we are at once again. And the results co uld be 
equally as destructive as nuclear annihilation with no hope of return. To flip the analogy to a 
more earth -bound one, mountaineers carry ice axes so that when they are tumbling toward the 
cliff edge they can heft it in and stop their deadly fall. Fi nd then place the ice axe.  
 


