3/13/2025 via FDM S 
Lucy Jacobs, 
My name is L ucy Jacobs and I am a 2nd semester senior at Avonworth High School. I 
studied g enerative AI and its impact on writing for television for two months in a course on 
AI and Ethics this year. From my research, I think current administration's viewpoint on AI 
regulation is contradictory. A very important value of the republican party is creating new 
jobs, but by fully supporting AI unregulated, AI might take more jobs that it can create. 
Every aspect of life should be met with some moderation to crea te a healthy balance 
between discipline and indulgence. That's what makes the good parts of our lives so good, that we occasionally experience it, and therefore adding more value to it. Though I don't believe AI has the talent or creativity to fully replace screenwriters in television, it certainly 
has the capabilities to be abused by humans in that ﬁeld. By allowing AI to become fully 
unregulated, the Trump administration isn't allowing television to ever be the same, for better, but mostly for worse. Rec ently, movies such as Emilia Perez and The Brutalist have 
faced controversy for using AI in their ﬁlms for voice modulation. This serves as an example that productions are taking shortcuts rather than hiring people that can actually do what is 
asked of them. AI was used in Emilia Perez to polish high notes the actors would sing, but 
there exists singers who already can hit high notes without the use of AI. In the Brutalist, AI was used to make Hungarian speaking characters sound more accurate, but there ex ists 
excellent actors who can speak English and Hungarian. Controversies like these will only be worse and more frequent without any regulation of AI in ﬁlm and television, because 
nobody will feel the need to take any accountability. Artiﬁcial Intellige nce has the potential 
to innovate without costing people their jobs or their integrity. Regulations wouldn't mean 
hindering all innovation for AI, it would just mean restoring the balance between work from humans and work from computers. 


