1 Before the  
NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
In the Matter of ) 
) 
Request for Information on the Development ) 
of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan   ) Document No. 2025-02305 
)  
COMMENTS OF LUMEN1 
Lumen Technologies, Inc. (Lumen) is pleased to respond to the National Science 
Foundation’s  (NSF) Request for Information  to provide input  to the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (Plan)  as directed by Presidential Executive Order on January 23, 
2025.  Lumen applauds the President’s commitment to policies that will sustain and enhance 
U.S. global dominance in AI in order to promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness 
and national security.  
Lumen also agree s with the President’s observation that with the right government 
policies, innovation , and entrepreneurial spirit  that the U.S. is capable of winning the global AI 
race.2.   For instance, China's long -term AI strategy, launched in 2017, sets ambitious goals for 
AI as an economic driver and for China as a global AI hub.3 Recent announcements from 
1 This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
2 National Science Foundation, Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan, 90 Fed. Reg. 9088 (Feb. 6, 2025).  
3 According to the World Economic Forum (WEF), China’s long -term AI strategy, underpinned 
by adaptive regulations and robust infrastructure, exemplifies how to balance innovation with 
safety for sustainable transformation. The 2017 “Next Generation AI Plan” aims to position AI 
as a core driver of economic transformation by 2025 and establish the country as a global hub for 
Continued on next page…  


2 Chinese AI startup DeepSeek4 and increased subsidies for AI infrastructure highlight China's 
progress.5 
All of these actions raise the bar to maintain the U .S. AI leadership position and highlight 
the strategic importance of recent  onshoring and investment announcements , from the Stargate 
Project,6 DAMAC Properties ,7 and others.8 to build the infrastructure necessary to continue U.S. 
progress in AI.    
 Lumen is Building the Backbone for the AI Economy  
Since February 2023, Lumen has been engaged in a far -reaching transformation strategy 
to cloudify its telecommunications business and adapt the company’s national fiber network to 
meet the needs of hyperscalers and AI -driven enterprises.  Lumen now operates the largest ultra -
low-loss, intercity fiber network in North America and the single most -peered IP network in the 
AI innovation by 2030. See WEF, Transforming industries with AI: Lessons from China’s 
Journey, Jan. 23, 2025. 
4 See CNBC, Beijing Embraces DeepSeek to lead AI adoption as it looks for new growth drivers , 
Feb. 21, 2025. 
5 According to the Diplomat, China has significantly increased its subsidies and incentives for 
the semiconductor industry, AI development, and data centers, aiming to reduce reliance on 
U.S.-controlled technology and support domestic and global expansion. See The Diplomat,
China Boosts Semiconductor Subsidies as US tightens restrictions , Sept. 28, 2023.
6 See Open AI, Announcing the Stargate Project , Jan. 21, 2025.
7 See DAMAC, Trump Announces DAMAC’s $20 Billion Investment in U.S. Datacenters , Jan. 
9, 2025. 
8 Google’s recent financial report indicates it plans to spend $75 billion on advancing AI 
technologies in 2025. See Alphabet Announces Fourth Quarter and FY 2024 Results .  Microsoft 
has noted it has budgeted approximately $80 billion for AI-enabled data centers in 2025.  See 
Brad Smith, Microsoft, The Golden Opportunity for American AI , Jan. 3, 2025.  Amazon Web 
Services (AWS) is planning to spend nearly a year of AWS revenue on AI investments in 2025. 
The company aims to allocate over $ 85 billion towards AI, primarily for AWS data  centers and 
AI systems.  See The Next Platform, Amazon Will Spend Nearly a Year of AWS Revenue on AI 
Investments , Feb. 7, 2025. 


3 world,9 employing  approximately  25,000 team members.  The company is  rapidly expanding its 
network, from 12 million inter -city fiber miles in 2022 to an expected 47 million miles in 2028.10 
Lumen is also partnering with U.S.-based Corning to deploy next -generation fiber, which 
will provide up to four times more capacity over existing and new routes .  Lumen also is 
leveraging photonics innovation for up to  twofold greater fiber efficiency.  Lumen has the unique 
ability to scale its network quickly to meet demand, thanks to thousands of miles of multi -
conduit infrastructure the company built decades ago along existing fiber routes, enabling it to 
overpull additional fiber strands through unused or underused conduit. Over the last several 
months, Lumen also has entered into approximately $8.5 billion worth of deals with hyperscalers 
that have chosen Lumen to be their fiber connectivity provide r, including Microsoft, Meta, 
AWS, and Google Cloud .11  Through these partnerships , Lumen will provide them with dramatic 
increases to their network capacit y, thereby  supporting their  ambitious AI deployment plans . At 
the same time, Lumen is doing so efficiently, increasing the overall utilization of its network 
from 57 percent to 70 percent.12 
 In sum, Lumen is expanding its national fiber network to support data center growth, 
which, in turn, supports U.S. AI deployment and promotes national security and economic 
competitiveness.   
AI Needs Data. Data Needs Data Centers. Data Centers Need to be Connected  
 In the last  six months  alone, hyperscalers  like Google, Microsoft , Meta, and Amazon 
Web Services  have announced plans to invest , in the aggregate,  over $300 billion to grow their 
9 See CAIDA ASRank, https://asrank.caida.org/  (last visited Mar. 13, 2025).  
10 S&P Global Market Intelligence, Lumen Technologies, Inc. NYSE: LUMN FQ4 2024 
Earnings Call Transcripts , Feb. 4, 2025. 
11 See id.
12 See id.


4 respective AI infrastructure, augmented by multi -year investments like the $100 billion Stargate 
project.13. McKinsey  & Company  estimates that the global demand for data center capacity could 
rise at an annual rate of between 19 and 22 percent from 2023 to 2030.14
Hyperscalers typically need hundreds of fibers between data centers to support the 
training of AI models, inference and other functions, and each data center generally requires 2 -4 
diverse fiber routes to ensure redundancy and reliability.   Leading fiber manufacturers report that 
data centers running large language models will require up to five times more optical 
connectivity than they have  today.15  Data center firms have warned that the fiber network could 
soon replace GPU supply as the next AI infrastructure bottleneck given the unprecedented fiber 
connectivity needs for the proliferation of data centers to support AI.16  Lumen expects fiber 
demands to further increase as AI data centers decentralize away from major population centers 
and metro power grids, requiring the construction of new data routes, but also bringing new 
digital infrastructure to rural communities.17￼  
To help meet this demand, Lumen expects its total capital expenditure s to be in the range 
of $4.1 billion to $4.3 billion in 2025 t o accommodate new route construction, fiber overpulls, 
13 See Fierce Network, Cloud hyperscalers aren’t taking chances on network capacity , Feb. 6, 
2025; The Next Platform, Amazon Will Spend Nearly a Year of AWS Revenue on AI 
Investments , Feb. 7, 2025.  
14 McKinsey, AI power: Expanding data center capacity to meet growing demand , Oct. 29, 2024.
15 See, e.g., Corning, The Progress Report , Dec 2023.
16 See Fierce Network, Hyperscalers  are buying what Lumen is selling , Oct. 30, 2024; Fierce 
Network, Cloud hyperscalers  aren’t taking chances on network capacity , Feb. 6, 2025 (quoting 
industry analyst: “we often speak about electricity shortages due to insatiable data center 
demand/builds, but high speed and low latency interconnections are equally critical to 
maintaining performance”).    
17 Data centers in the U.S. tend to be near urban high -tech business centers. As AI applications 
expand, data center owners will look for large tracts of land for new facilities.   See, e.g.,
Telecompetitor, AI Drives Demand for Data Centers; Is it a Rural Business Opportunity , Sept. 
18, 2024.  


5 augmentation of in -line signal amplifiers, and cloudification of Lumen’s telecom services ,  
complemented by similar investments from other carriers and the hyperscalers themselves.18
However, while U.S. providers like Lumen are investing billions to provide the fiber 
connectivity  necessary to support AI , red tape around permitting and rights -of-way slow the pace 
of deployment.   Efficient permitting and targeted deregulation  are needed to remove these 
deployment barriers , and tax policy that encourages investment in American infrastructure  will 
help expedite deployment .  
Policy Recommendations to Support AI Fiber Connectivity  
Policymakers have long  recognized that restrictive  permitting and rights -of-way access 
hinder cost-effective and timely broadband deployment. These same barriers affect fiber 
deployment for AI data center s.  However, while broadband  deployment delays affect specific 
pockets of consumers , delays in fiber connectivity for AI data centers  could pose a risk to the 
U.S. leadership role in AI .  Lumen long has supported proposed policy actions to eliminate these 
barriers, including “dig once” policies; fair and af fordable access to utility poles ; coordinating 
with transportation agencies and railroad operators for rights-of-way access ; and streamlining 
local, state, and regional permitting processes.  
In addition to these policy actions, Lumen recommends the following measures to enable 
the U.S. to solidify and advance its leadership in AI . These measures are aimed at promoting 
U.S. economic competitiveness and enhancing national security . 
•Establish consistent permitting standards that apply uniformly to all federal, state, and
local permitting applications.  The current patchwork  of processes  creates burdens for
18 See S&P Global Market Intelligence, Lumen Technologies, Inc. NYSE: LUMN FQ4 2024 
Earnings Call Transcripts , Feb. 4, 2025. 


6 companies  building critical fiber infrastructure  and for government  personnel  alike, 
insofar as it fosters inefficiencies  for both. 
•In the absence of consistent permitting standards, adopt mutual recognition permitting
approval processes for federal, state, and local applications.   Adopting  a mutual
recognition  permitting  approval process for federal, state, and local applications  will
streamline  the approval process by reducing redundant  reviews.  This approach
acknowledges  state programs  with primary regulatory  authority,  allowing federal
agencies to rely on state-approved permits.
•Adopt cost -based fees.  Local governments  often impose excessive  fees to generate new
revenue streams, which act as hidden taxes on community  investments.  These fees cause
cost overruns and project delays, negatively  impacting  both companies  and consumers.
A solution is to implement  a flat, cost-based, uniform fee for each permit application
regardless  of whether filed at the federal, state, or local level.
•Establish a single point of contact.  Requiring permitting authorities to e stablish a single
point of contact for the permitting  process will streamline  coordination  and expedite
applications  related to fiber connectivity  for AI infrastructure  projects. This approach
reduces confusion  and redundancy,  ensuring that all necessary  information  is centralized
and accessible.
•60-day “shot clock ” for all permit applications.   When devising the AI Action Plan, it is
crucial to consider additional measures to expedite permitting approvals.  For instance, if
there are no objections within 30 days, the permit should be automatically approved.
Moreover, m ost applications  for upgrading  fiber networks to support AI are intended for


7 deployment in existing conduits, yet they face the same long wait times as new 
infrastructure  projects.  Such applications should be subject to a shorter shot clock.  
•Provide for bulk permitting.  The application  process should include a bulk permitting
process for long-haul projects, requiring only one permit per project.
•Ensure N ational Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)  categorical exclusions.  Expanding
NEPA categorical  exclusions  to include new fiber routes will speed up the deployment  of
critical fiber connectivity  for AI data centers. Current exemptions  only cover expansions
to existing infrastructure.  Building new fiber routes is well-understood  and has minimal
environmental  impact.
•Modernize permitting interfaces.   This will provide greater transparency and real -time
updates throughout the permitting process.
Lumen also recommends that any task forces or councils proposed in the AI Action Plan
to promote AI infrastructure  include fiber connectivity providers , and include  in their scope 
advancing fiber deployment permitting reforms in Congress  and assisting in resolving any 
logjams that may arise in interagency coordination efforts geared towards promoting permitting 
and rights -of-way reforms.    
Beyond permitting and rights -of-way reforms, Lumen also supports forward -looking 
fiscal and regulatory policies that could  provide significant incentives to deploy additional AI 
infrastructure:  
•Encourage Congress to renew the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act , especially  the
provisions on expensing of capex and the business interest deduction.
•Provide regulatory relief  from federal and state rules that divert limited private capital
toward obsolete networks in communities that are already served by modern, digital


8 networks.  
Conclusion  
Lumen applauds the Administration for having issued t his Request for Information  so 
quickly out of the starting gate .  As a leading communications infrastructure provider and the 
preeminent backbone provider for AI, Lumen welcomes the opportunity to leverage its 
experience to collaborate with OSTP and NITRD NCO to ensure the AI Action Plan prioritizes 
concrete, implementable  policy actions to promote deployment of fiber infrastructure , which is  
critical to support the connectivity needs of AI data centers.  
 Respectfully submitted,  
LUMEN TECHNOLOGIES, INC.  
By:      Melissa H. Mann   
SVP, Public Policy and Government Affairs 
660 N. Capitol Street, NW, Suite 240  
Washington, DC 20001  
Dated:  March 14, 2025  


