This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or con ﬁdential information. 
Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.
March 15, 2025	 Maddy Buck 
www.maddybuck.com 
Faisal D’Souza, NCO 
Ofﬁce of  Science and Technology Policy 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
Response to the National Science Foundation’s and 
Ofﬁce of  Science & Technology Policy’s Request for Information 
on the Development of  an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
90 Fed. Reg. 9088 (Feb. 6, 2025) 
Docket No. NSF_FRDOC_0001 
I submit this comment as an independent artist, writer, and technologist.  In the United States, we have a belief  that is not shared everywhere in the world—that 
intellectual property is, well, property .  Copyright and patent protections give American artists, inventors, and creatives in all disciplines a reason to innovate because their creative work is protected from theft. If  registered intellectual property is used without consent, the owner of  the intellectual property has a cause of  action against the infringer. 
The United States is known for the innovation and creativity it brings to the world. Hollywood, 
Nashville, the Iowa Writers Workshop, Pixar Studios, and more: these creative engines fuel the world. Why? In the U.S., creators, authors, artists, screenwriters, among others, know that they can exploit their own work to the fullest thanks to U.S. copyright protections. 
To enhance America’s AI dominance, we need to maintain the existing copyright structure that protects works of  authorship. At the same time, we must incentivize technology to develop in a way that prevents AI models from scraping and pillaging copyrighted works.  
1
Our AI companies, the most innovative in the world and staffed with some of  the smartest minds 
of  our time, have demonstrated their ability to ﬁnd groundbreaking solutions to technical 
problems. The only thing stopping them from ﬁnding a way to keep their models thriving and 
growing, while also compensating the authors, artists, and creators whenever their work is used, is a lack of  incentive. 
My proposal is this:  
The U.S. should avoid policy that supports an erosion of, or incomplete copyright protection for, 
 TollBit State of  the Bots - Q4 2024 outlines how scraping by AI bots is increasing, even while blocked, 1
and in a way that drives referral trafﬁc away from the original source. See TollBit State of  the Bots - Q4 
2024, February 24, 20215, https://tollbit.com/bots/24q4/.
Page 1


This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or con ﬁdential information. 
Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.
copyrighted works that are used to train AI models. The scraping of  copyrighted works to train 
AI models is not fair use. Instead, the U.S. should provide incentives to AI companies to develop AI in a way that: 
1.Makes transparent the author of  any copyrighted work that is used to train its model,
2.Allows creators to license their work to the models by opting into training, just as aphotographer may choose to license their work to a stock photo company .
3.Allows compensation for creators whenever their work is used by an AI in generating aresponse to a prompt (for example, when a response summarizes a copyrighted journalarticle).
There is a close analogy in the music industry . For years, a very popular way of  creating songs has been by sampling short segments of  already-existing songs, combining the sample with other samples, instruments, effects, and vocals to create a brand new song.  If  a sample is used in a new song, the songwriter of  the sampled song is ofﬁcially considered one of  the songwriters of  the new song, entitled to their share of  the royalties, even though they had no direct involvement with the composition of  the new song.  This is precisely the model that AI companies should be required to follow.   
Incentivizing the development of  AI models in this way will maintain and strengthen the rights of  authorship that has made this country so promising for creators of  all kinds. Ours is not a culture of  copycats, and that is what makes us great. With the advent of  AI, we should incentivize the development of  AI in a way that won’t chill the potential for more creativity . 
Thank you for your consideration,  Maddy Buck
Page 2


