This document is a response to a Request for Information (RFI) and is approved for public dissemination. The document 
contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Actio n Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
Page 1 
Office of Science and Technology Policy  
Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan  
Response to Request for Information  (RFI)  
March 1 4, 2025  
Submitted via Email To Submitted By  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  
Networking and Information Technology 
Research and Development , National 
Science Foundation  
ATTN: Faisal D’Souza, NCO  
Email: ManTech Advanced Systems 
International, Inc. (ManTech)  
Brandy Durham , Vice President, Data and 
AI Practice  
2251 Corporate Park Drive  
Herndon, VA 20171  
Phone: (571) 
Email: 


Page 2 
March 1 4, 2025  
NCO  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Subject:  Request for Information (R FI) Response: Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Mr. Faisal D’Souza , 
On behalf of ManTech International Corporation  (ManTech) , we welcome the opportunity 
to respond to the Office of Science and Technology Policy's (OSTP) request for 
information (RFI) regarding the Development of an Artificial Intelligence  (AI) Action Plan. 
At ManTech, we recognize the critical importance of sustaining and enhancing American 
AI dominance and appreciate this Administration's focus on reducing and removing 
requirements that hamper private sector innovation in AI.  
At ManTech,  we share OSTP’s belie f that a successful national AI Action Plan must 
address the challenges of today while preparing for the opportunities of tomorrow. This 
response outlines ManTech’s perspectives on key areas , including strategic investment s, 
a balanced regulatory framework , and modernized procurement approaches.  
Our recommendations are grounded in a commitment to fostering American leadership 
in AI, while ensuring that the benefits of this technology are shared broadly across society . 
We appreciate the opportunity to contribute to this important initiative and welcome the 
prospect of further  engagement.  This document is approved for public dissemination. The 
document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and 
associated documents without attribution.  
Respectfully,  
Brandy Durham  
Vice President, Data and AI Practice  
ManTech International Corporation


Development of AI Action Plan RFI  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  Page 3 
For Public Dissemination - Refer to Title Page Statement  
Table of Contents  
1.0 Introduction  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  4 
2.0 Strategic Investments  ................................ ................................ ............................  5 
3.0 Regulatory Framework – Fostering Innovation Through Balanced 
Governance  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  7 
4.0 Procurement Approaches  ................................ ................................ .....................  9 
5.0 Conclusion  ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  11 


Development of AI Action Plan RFI  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  Page 4 
For Public Dissemination - Refer to Title Page Statement  
1.0 INTRODUCTION  
The rapid advancement of artificial intelligence (AI) creates both unprecedented 
opportunities and complex challenges for the United States. An AI Action Plan is 
necessary to sustain and enhance American global leadership in this transformative 
technology. This document responds to the Request for Information (RFI) by out lining key 
recommendations  for an AI Action Plan  across strategic investment s, regulatory 
frameworks and procurement strategies .  
ManTech’s perspective is rooted in the understanding that a successful AI Action Plan 
must be multifaceted  and address core technological development, workforce preparation 
and market dynamics. We recognize the urgent need to move beyond a fragmented 
landscape of state -level regulations to an establish ed, clear, national vision that 
empowers innovation,  and both furthers  and protects  national  interests .  
Our response focuses on three key areas in which the Federal Government can bring 
about and foster the greatest changes while not overburdening innovation :  
1)Strategic Investment s: We propose a  three -pronged strategic investment approach
that (1) integrates AI into existing systems to meet the needs of today; (2) prioritizes
foundational research  to seed the technology of tomorrow ; and (3)  cultivat es a future
AI-ready workforce. This approach incorporates targeted  funding for AI research,
development of synthetic data to ensure continued scalability of AI models and
mitigate privacy concerns, and educational programs that emphasize critical thinking
and problem -solving. We recommend  tax policies that incentivize collaboration and
infrastructure development, recognizing that a robust AI ecosystem requires a strong
foundation . Tax policies promoting AI are a strategic investment that will result in long -
term economic growth and generate future tax revenue.
2)Regulatory Framework  - Fostering Innovation Through Balanced Government :
We believe that a minimum amount of federal guidance is necessary  to prevent a
patchwork of state laws that can create conflicting regulations, burdensome
bureaucracy, and stifle innovation. Clear federal principles should be established while
allowing domain -specific regulations that can adapt to rapid technological change.
This guidance should minimize confusion and maximize consistency.
3)Procurement Approaches:  We advocate for using modernized procurement
approaches that reduce barriers to entry for non -traditional companies , streamline
acquisition, and leverage  novel procurement methods  to achieve  flexible , outcome -
driven  contract vehicles .


Development of AI Action Plan RFI  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  Page 5 
For Public Dissemination - Refer to Title Page Statement  
2.0 STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS  
As global competition for AI leadership intensifies, the Federal Government must continue 
to take a leadership role in fostering basic and applied research in AI, advancing private -
sector development, and encouraging novel and innovative approaches to AI d eployment 
that address the most challenging use -cases.  
AI development requires close collaboration across government, industry and academia . 
While industry will lead in innovation, the government  plays a pivotal role in  encouraging 
private investment and partnerships, establishing a national vision, and  especially in 
supporting emerging AI technologies through funding  with pilot programs. The Federal 
Government can is also uniquely positioned to  play a constructive role in supporting the 
fundamental resources that underpin AI (e.g. energy distribution, data  centers, workforce 
development) , and clearing away barriers to growth and innovation , such as 
environmental regulations that inhibit investments .  
AI requires significant infrastructure investments , from the advanced computing chips 
required to develop the next generation of advanced AI capabilities, to the facilities 
needed to house the large volume s of hardware . There is insufficient power required to 
cool and run all the resources required for AI  on existing infrastructure. To accelerate 
next-generation AI development, the government should create additional  incentives to 
promote the creation of new data centers, enhance accessible high quality computing 
capabilities, and improve our electrical infrastructure to better handle the massive power 
consumption needed to develop advanced  AI capabilities . Incentives such as tax credits 
will encourage private -sector strategic planning and investment in these areas.  
Tax Policy: In addition to infrastructure, the Federal Government can leverage  tax policy 
to shape and  support AI development and innovation, allowing private companies to do 
what they do best: innovate .  
•Extend Tax Cuts . The Federal Government should extend parts of the Tax Cuts and
Jobs Act , which are set to expire  at the end of 2025 . Extending these credits would
provide a more favorable environment for companies that are looking to mitigate risks
from research and development ( R&D ) investments and potentially free up resources
for direct investment in AI infrastructure and experimentation.
•Expand R&D Tax Credits.  Expanding the R&D tax credit (IRC Section 41) to include
specific credits for AI research and development would encourage producers and
consumers of AI to innovate and adopt new technologies. Allowing private AI
companies to deduct research expenses, salaries for data scientists and researchers,
investments in AI -related cloud computing, AI algorithms, and model development will
encourage innovative companies to take more risks and bring new capabilities to
market.
•Offer Tax Benefits for Modernization.  Offering tax benefits to companies  focusing on
national security to  invest now to replace  old servers, storage, processors, and software
in favor of advanced AI-ready products, will encourage the private sector  to modernize
its technology to support AI sustainment and enhancement. This incentive would
include a defined sunset period to encourage modernization sooner and limit the overall
costs.
Public -Private Partnerships (PPP):  ManTech believes that emphasizing and expanding 
PPPs  is key to advancing AI development. As with other new technologies, government 


Development of AI Action Plan RFI  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  Page 6 
For Public Dissemination - Refer to Title Page Statement  
collaboration with the private sector can make a significant difference in accelerating the 
development of AI in the United States and help ing to maintain our leadership position :  
•AI will impact all industries . The Federal Government could  prioritize  collaboration in
industries that are critical to national competitive advantage (e.g. , defense, software,
supply chain, energy, healthcare/biomedical, and microelectronics ).
•Cybersecurity case study . Many companies retain highly talented staff with a strong
interest in creating leading -edge AI capabilities.  Successful c ollaboration  between
government and industry to advance AI for cyber in the protection of the nation’s critical
infrastructure is a great example of  a case study  in PPPs.
•Enhanced  knowledge sharing . Government can better  promot e, participat e, and
facilita te technology transfer events such as conferences, seminars and summits . This
can help foster collaboration between government and industry.  Such  events benefit
government and industry , demonstrating the “art of the possible” to government
representatives while  providing industry with invaluable feedback on the current trends
and areas of government interest.
AI Data Centers : AI will continue to drive the need for massive amounts of computer 
processing, electricity and data centers . While there is ample power generation capacity, 
the power companies cannot keep pace with power distribution infrastructure to service 
current and planned facilities. This energy gap could delay building new data centers until 
the power distribution capacity is in place.  New research and investments are needed to 
develop additional modes of onsite power generation to reduce the data centers ’ relianc e 
on the power grid. The Federal Government can also play a role in providing incentives 
for data center providers to upgrade their infrastructure to handle the heavy AI workloads, 
particularly as it relates to cooling , power , and rack density.  
Workforce Development: As the United States compete s for leadership in AI, it need s 
a highly skilled workforce that can scale to match the growth of the industry. To continu e 
to develop a skilled AI workforce, t he Federal Government could  facilitate the following 
types of activities :  
•Partnerships between industry and academia to accelerate the development of AI
infrastructure while also training the next generation of AI researchers. The Federal
Government can identify grants for universities and tax incentives for corporations that
enter into these types of agreements.
•Increasing the integration of AI education into existing Science, Technology,
Engineering and Math ematics  (STEM ) curriculum to prepar e the next generation for
continued AI leadership.
•Developing industry -specific AI training programs that demonstrate how AI can be
applied within industries  such as defense, healthcare, finance, manufacturing or retail.
This could be accomplished in alliance with the AI Research Institutes.
•Leveraging community colleges and training centers to develop standardized
certification programs in AI. As with other technical areas, certification programs build
confidence in the workforce and allow for more rapid industry growth.


Development of AI Action Plan RFI   
  
 
  
 Office of Science and Technology Policy  Page 7 
For Public Dissemination - Refer to Title Page Statement  
3.0 REGULATORY FRAMEWORK  – FOSTERING INNOVATION THROUGH 
BALANCED GOVERNANCE  
The rapid evolution of AI requires  a regulatory approach that is both agile and grounded 
in clear , concise  principles. State-level initiatives have demonstrated a proactive 
engagement with AI policy but  have created a fragmented patchwork of regulations that 
risks hindering  innovation, particularly for businesses operating across state lines. We 
believe that a minimum level of federal guidance is crucial to establish a consistent and 
predictable regulatory landscape  that foster s a national ecosystem conducive to AI 
advancement.  
Federal guidance would  not micromanage AI implementation across all sectors. Instead, 
it could  concentrate  on establishing focus  areas so that domain -specific guidance foster s 
innovation and allow s the technology to evolve  at speed . Focus a reas to encourage 
domain -specific guidance or transparency include : 
• Developing open standards and protocols for AI systems where those standards and 
protocols are necessary to ensure interoperability across different platforms and 
applications . This promotes a more competitive marketplace, reduces vendor lock, and 
provides a foundation for future AI literacy efforts . 
• Establishing clear principles for data access and governance. This could involve 
elevating existing standards for data anonymization, promoting the use of synthetic 
data, and establishing standards for data provenance . 
• Establishing guidance for technical requirements around explainability and 
transparency in AI systems . The actual technical requirements and implementation of 
such  guidance could also be tailored by domain . 
• Identifying requirements for security and resilience of systems used for national security 
and critical infrastructure, which could include establishing standards for cybersecurity, 
vulnerability testing, incident response  and supply chain assurance , and would involve 
identifying and modifying existing guidance in this area . 
• Clarifying intellectual property protection for AI systems, which would help to create a 
more predictable legal environment for AI developers and users . 
• Strengthening and streamlining the patent process for AI -related products and 
processes.  
Furthermore, we advocate for a decentralized, domain -specific regulatory approach, that 
acknowledges the unique challenges presented by different sectors for AI applications. 
For instance, the regulatory considerations for AI in healthcare differ from those in finance 
or transportation. Domain -specific regulations, developed in close collabo ration with 
industry experts and stakeholders, can provide necessary granularity to address such  
nuances effectively.  
This decentralized , domain -specific regulatory  approach empowers sector -by-sector  
specific regulatory bodies to develop and adopt guidelines tailored to their unique domain 
contexts. It would foster a more agile regulatory environment, enabling rapid responses 
to emerging challenges and technological advancements. Such  adaptability is crucial in 
the rapidly evolving field of AI, where rigid, one -size-fits-all regulations can quickly 
become obsolete.  
Fully decentralized regulation creates the potential of unintentionally creating barriers to 
reusing technology . To facilitate effective coordination and harmonization across different 


Development of AI Action Plan RFI  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  Page 8 
For Public Dissemination - Refer to Title Page Statement  
domains, we propose empowering an existing body, or establishing a new body  
composed of both Government and private sector representatives, to focus on information 
sharing and sharing of best practices across domains. Such a body could play a crucial 
role in providing guidance to state and local governments, ensuring that their AI -related 
initiatives align with federal  principles.  
In essence, ManTech’s proposed minimalist regulatory framework strike s the right  
balance between national consistency and domain -specific flexibility. By establishing 
clear federal principles and empowering sector -specific regulatory bodies, we can create 
an environment that fosters innovation and prevents further devolving regulation  into a 
patchwork of state -specific regulations. This approach would not only promote American 
leadership in AI but  also ensure s that the benefits of this transformative techno logy are 
realized across all sectors of society.  


Development of AI Action Plan RFI  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  Page 9 
For Public Dissemination - Refer to Title Page Statement  
4.0 PROCUREMENT APPROACHES  
Government procurement plays a critical role in fostering both general innovation in AI 
and applications for Government -specific needs. To optimize the speed of value from 
advancements in AI, it is necessary to modernize and adapt current procurement 
approaches to foster an environment of innovation and capitalize on emerging 
commercial technologies. To this end,  ManTech recommends a set of approaches that 
will allow the Federal Government to take advantage of innovative technologies and 
encourage continued creation of new capabilities that address Federal Government 
needs.  
Reduce the barrier to entry for non -traditional companies : AI advancements are 
largely driven by the commercial sector, and many of the leading companies have limited 
experience in Government contracting . Simplifying the procurement regulations to make 
it easier for companies  to enter the Federal market is crucial  to enhanc e competition and 
ensure government access to state -of-the-art AI -driven technologies.   
Procure holistic solutions : Emerging capabilities in AI are broadly transformational. To 
achieve their full promise requires transforming the environment around them to make 
use of new capabilities. This includes adapting surrounding  systems, data management , 
processing, and human workflows and tradecraft  to effectively leverage these 
advancements . When the main technical capability is procured separately from other 
components of a mission or enterprise activity, the elements for transformation may 
become i nconsistent with one another, or the progression of each part may be hampered 
by requirements for compatibility with legacy versions of the other parts. We recommend 
that the government procure holistic solutions that include core technologies, adaptation 
of those technologies, technical integration and professional services to apply the 
technologies to enterprise needs. Procuring such complete solutions enables the 
government to reap the full benefits of the AI capabilities.  
Utilize new and non -traditional procurement methods for AI : The speed of 
commercial advances in AI creates significant challenges for traditional government 
contracting. The time involved in creating a highly precise set of requirements and 
specifying the desired technology, application, and approach can often coincide with 
changes in the market that make those specifications outdated by the time the 
procureme nt occurs. More broadly, the nature of AI includes a variety of methods that 
achieve similar functional results. Narrowly specifying the required technology an d 
methods limits the range of offerings and may limit value to the government and stifle 
relevant innovation. Integrating f lexible outcome -based approache s that empower the 
government and offerors to experiment with different methods , fail fast, a nd deliver will 
provide the most effective results . We encourage the government to consider new 
additional mechanisms that promote experimentation and rapid response, creating a rich 
ecosystem for acquiring creative, cutting -edge AI solutions.  
A key benefit to AI is its ability to augment traditional workflows, improving productivity by 
automating repeatable time -consuming processes. To improve government efficiency, it 
is key to ensure the  workforce has access to , knows how to use, and feels empowered 
to adopt  cutting -edge AI capabilities. Current acquisition  processes  can get in the way of 
broad scale adoption. Many AI capabilities have a high initial cost associated with their 
procurement;  the efficiency of these capabilities can often provide a much greater return 
on investment by significantly cutting down on the man -hours necessary to perform tasks . 


Development of AI Action Plan RFI  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  Page 10 
For Public Dissemination - Refer to Title Page Statement  
When evaluating  a time -cost tradeoff associated with acquisitions, both the value of the 
time that a proposed capability will save the government,  and the value of expediting 
mission delivery  are important to consider .  
Prioritize AI in authorization activities : For the government to benefit fully from AI 
advances, government entities must be able to use advances in the technical 
environments where they perform the core of their work. This requires authorization for 
systems at all levels of classification, and often additional authorization is required for 
specialized enclaves. This critical security assurance  and authorization to operate  must 
be achieved while also increasing the speed of access to AI capabilities  and without 
increasing risk . We recommend that an AI Action Plan prioritize AI-enabled solutions in 
authorization reviews. We further  recommend consideration of reciprocity for all security 
elements reviewed by other entities or lower levels of authorization, to streamline each 
review to the extent possible and efficiently deliver technology to the most critical 
missions.  
Procure solutions from a variety of providers : Leadership in AI technology 
development  and adoption  is constantly evolving . The broad economy  will benefit from 
access to the full panoply of both core technology and applications companies and the 
competition this brings. Likewise, the government will benefit from a broad range of 
providers offering technology solutions to the government . Competition will create 
innovation, drive down  prices, ensure th e continu ous incorporat ion of  the best new 
capabilities from the commercial sector , and encourage contin ued invest ment  in the 
enhancement of capabilities . To build the foundation for a dynamic  competitive 
environment, we urge the government to procure solutions from a variety of AI providers 
to ensure early -stage robust competition.  Selecting a single provider, even if this provider 
has the current leading capability, will discourage others from entering the government 
marketplace , and may result in a market where a single dominant provider has few 
incentives to innovat e or constrain costs . Instead, we recommend procurement from a 
mixture of sources. We also suggest considering potential minimum buys, to attract 
attention to the government market from commercial leaders focused on enterprise deals 
and large markets, and to ensure viab ility of multiple such leaders with differing strengths 
and areas of technical emphasis . 


Development of AI Action Plan RFI  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  Page 11 
For Public Dissemination - Refer to Title Page Statement  
5.0 CONCLUSION  
The United States stands at a pivotal moment in the evolution of AI. To maintain our global 
leadership and ensure that AI benefits all Americans, a comprehensive and forward -
looking AI Action Plan is essential. This response has outlined key recommendations 
across strategic investment, regulatory frameworks, and procurement approaches, 
emphasizing the need for a balanced approach that fosters innovati on while safeguarding 
public interests.  
By prioritizing strategic investments in research, infrastructure and workforce 
development, we can lay the foundation for a thriving AI ecosystem. By establishing a 
clear and adaptable regulatory framework, we can provide certainty and guidance while 
enco uraging rapid AI development. By modernizing procurement approaches, we can 
ensure that the government has access to the most innovative AI solutions.  
We believe that by embracing these recommendations, the United States can harness 
the transformative potential of AI to drive economic growth, enhance national security and 
improve the lives of all Americans. We appreciate the opportunity to provide our 
recommendations to the AI Action Plan and look forward to future participation in 
additional associated activities.  


