3/13/2025  via FDMS  
Nicholas Mariano,  
Dear NITRD NCO and the OSTP, and whom it may concern, I am a software engineer. I 
unders tand the power that code has in our modern world. As AI writes more and more of that 
code, we will be forced to rely on its decisions, and to trust both its intentions and its abilities. I believe that AI will shape the future. I believe those who control it will reap immense benefits. However, code is already tough to verify. The nature and volume of AI will make it extremely difficult to check its work. This leads to e xtreme risks as we give systems control over more and 
more critical knowledge infrastructure. Already, implementing AI into our world presents a huge technical and logistical challenge. With the introduction of agentic systems, up to and beyond “artificial general intelligence” (AGI), the risks will grow exponentially. A misaligned system might introduce bugs or malicious software that affects large parts of our world. It is ABSOLUTELY IMPERATIVE that we invest in and incentivize research into understanding  
how to understand and direct the goals of artificially intelligent systems. Artificial intelligence is the future; but developing it without strong, directional, and global leadership in AI safety will cause suffering for all of humanity. This is why I am imploring you to take a leadership role on AI safety and to do whatever it takes to bring the global community, even our competitors, into line. That is why I am calling for the US to make a deal with China, and to create a global alliance that enforces safe AI research practices, including but not limited to compute caps for training runs and required research for frontier models on topics like interpretability and verification mechanisms. Please, I urge you to take this issue with the utmost solemnity an d 
seriousness. Of all the important issues facing us today, NONE is in the same tier as this. It will directly determine my future. It will directly determine your future. It will directly determine the world’s future, and the fate of our species as a whol e. Sincerely, Nick Mariano 
 


