From: Mark Roland
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 2:40:45 AM
Attachments: image1742020809106
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Greetings,
I'd like to comment on the Development of Generative Artificial Intelligence and it's consequences for us, the
American people.
Copyright, is the backbone of any industry dedicated to the creation business. Copyright gives to the right holders
access to a market and value to their products. Today's Generative Artificial Intelligence is only possible due to theingestion of copyrighted material, admitted by the biggest players in the field. However, said ingestion greatlydevalues the property of the right holders by competing in the same markets.
Generative Artificial Intelligence was built on the promise of great prosperity for all. Unfortunately, in the past 3
years, it has little to show for, and is unable to produce any evidence of future wealth for the working class.Instead, the lack of proper ethics, guard rails, and regulation have created an environment where crimes such as:scam, identity theft, child pornography, and many more can flourish and grow stronger.
It has been proven that the constant reliance of these systems weakens the cognitive functions of the brain, along
with the fact that it produces mistakes due to a general misunderstanding of the human mind, and the lack ofactual intelligence. Therefore, the usage of these tools should be highly regulated or completely forbidden forunderage people, specially while developing critical thinking skills.
It has recently been said that unless we forfeit our copyrights and our rights to privacy, we will fall behind in the AI
race as an attempt to deceive the American people. Stripping the public from it's rights only opens the door forrevolutions. It is unwise to focus on leading a race put together by a few tech companies that's never ending andcan't be possibly win, while forgetting working on actual progress that will benefit the public.
On the matter of a never ending race. We must recognize that every advancement we make can be replicated
within months by our competitors, matching our performance or outright surpassing it. Giving us little to no edgewhile spending countless resources more.
Finally, the financial and natural resources required for the training and maintenance of these systems can't be
justified based on an empty promise and the current lack of results. We shouldn't compromise entire industriesbased on copyrights for wishful thinking of an utopia where no one has to work.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on this issue,
Mark Roland
Digital Matte Painter & Photographer
Sent with Proton Mail secure email.


All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


