3/13/2025 via FDM S 
Marla Barker, 
While mac hine learning has a place in our world, generative AI does not. Generative AI is 
corporat e malfeasance on a truly grand scale; it enables the theft of work from working 
artists everywhere, compensates them for next -to-nothing, and (when left in the wild) 
complicates literally every part of electronic life by its very existence. The presence of a 
credible picture (however anatomically incorrect) of some animal will be used as a 
reference, with its user not realizing it was generated by machine. GenA I is notoriously bad 
at answering questions, and in fact in when used in health systems, it frequently fails to pick up even the most obvious injuries or clearest changes in a patient. In education, GenAI hallucinates, makes up events and dates, and creates credible covers for itself, polluting 
research on the Internet on literally any subject with data utterly unmoored from reality, 
and conﬁdently, effortlessly wrong. GenAI is pollution posing as progress. The big companies who invest in it only do so in order to appear 'important' to some process or another, to receive support from a big IPO, to win government contracts; it is pure technical snake oil. There is no value, no democratization, no use whatsoever for this technology in 
its current state. I bel ieve in machine learning. I believe that there are good reasons to use 
neural nets in order to ﬁnd patterns in otherwise impossibly complicated data. There *are* 
good uses for synthetic intelligence as a general rule, and I even believe that it is humanit y's destiny to create life in this way. This is not it. This is theft, exploitation, and the 
further brutalization of a creative class which has been stripped of any of its former 
importance. GenAI cannot create or share beauty; it cannot share emotion in the way that 
humans can, since it has no emotions, no experiences, to share. When AI answers a query like 'why do people pet cats' , it can answer with something like 'because it feels good and causes a positive hormone response'; this is true. That said, it has never felt those things; all it has ever done is put an enormous amount of data through a heuristic algorithm at a 
catastrophic ecological and ﬁnancial cost (to say nothing of ethics). It can, however, never 
have pet a cat. It has no experiences; if enough people say something truly insane, or the 
black box which makes up the GenAI's thought process simply comes up with something unhinged from reality, is it as conﬁdent there as ever. It pollutes our minds. It reduces the impact of our art and writing. It furthers the vicious cycle which says that the only thing that 
matters is technology, and that art, writing, and the sharing of that which makes us human 
are all 'not real jobs', or 'ﬁt to be replaced'. This is not so. Human culture will never come  
out of a machine in this way, and ﬂattening the soul of our species into bad artwork and queasy, hallucinatory prose impoverishes us all, even GenAI's proponents. The bubble is bursting: look at how desperate these companies are to be protected from the results of 
their theft, how Microsoft is pulling back out of many of its GenAI -supporting datacenter 


acquisiti ons. Billions upon billions of dollars have been 'used' in the sense that they have 
been extracted, heaped into a pile, and set on ﬁre for something which doesn't understand 
even the most basic question, -any - sense of relational or objective rea lity, or anything else. 
It is useless. It is harming us. Its creators are stealing from us in order to do it. I call for nothing less than a ban on generative AI. There are enough sources of exploitation in our lives; GenAI does nothing but steal from us bigger, faster, and at a far greater cost to our ecosystem, all in the name of building something we call wealth while, in the process, it burns the very natural resources that we cannot replace: drinkable water, fuel, clean air, 
data and electricity transportation, literally every kind of real resource which humans need 
to live and thrive. It's a nightmare. It is the enemy of humanity, not in the sense of some Bollywood Terminator pastiche, but rather as a clear and present danger to our minds, our hearts, our ability to connect to and relate with one another, and the environments in which 
we live. A real, actual problem, contributing to climate change in order to produce literally 
nothing of value. It is a machine made to burn money, the result of so many ﬂ im-ﬂam men 
in tech who are grasping at the next 'big' thing, despite the fact that not even one of them 
has a clue how to continue, or what to do about the existential threats we, not only as a country but as a species, face.  


