From: Mary Weilenbeck
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Sunday, March 16, 2025 7:32:31 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Allowing AI to skirt intellectual property laws is anti-small business, anti-any business but
tech speculator business, and will hamper innovation of everyday Americans. AI has no fairuse exemption. It is a for profit scam perpetuated by tech companies looking to steal fromcreatives and creative industries in order to enrich themselves. They want to trick people intothinking algorithms are sentient when they're not.
 
AI seeks to create massive unemployment in creative industries and to flood those creativeindustries and the entire internet with garbage pieced together from the stolen hard work ofreal Americans, actual humans.
 
Furthermore, as algorithms and computers are not sentient, they do not possess discernment.They do not differentiate between fact or fiction, they can not analyze the quality of researchor source material. They "hallucinate," because they're only capable of approximating realisticspeech/sounds/imagery they've been fed. They're not capable of reasoning through ormindfully communicating anything, since algorithms aren't minds.
 
As IBM once said, computers can't be held responsible, therefore they shouldn't makemanagement decisions. Altman, Musk, Thiel, Sacks, Andreeson, etc, etc all want to sell thegovernment on the idea that computers can and should make management decisions aboutwho remains employed in civil service, and eventually about every facet of our lives. I'llreiterate: they want to do this because it will make them even wealthier, and because they havean almost religious, fanatical devotion to obscure philosophies like long termism, which theythink relies on AGI. They also envision mass surveillance of the population they plan to leaveunemployed and/or exploited in the future. Neither they, nor their algorithms, can be trusted tosafeguard our data or the future of the American public.
 
I do not consent to a handful of tech billionaires using my creative work and personal data fortheir private gain, ever. Like bitcoin and nfts, AGI is a scam. Even IF they ever achieved it,AGI would still not be able to be held responsible for decisions impacting humans on anindividual or population level, and it would be very dangerous for private industry to possessit, as the public can't vote out unelected billionaires.
 Don't listen to people who read and watched all the same science fiction I read, but missed the
point of it. They want to create dystopia around what amounts to fancy text predict. Trying tosell you on the idea that fancy text predict is intelligence is a scam. Trying to developtechnology in service of creating dystopia is also a scam.
 
Mary Weilenbeck  


All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.
If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


