Ma#iq, Inc.  
400 N Aberdeen St, Ste 650  
Chicago, IL 60642  
Faisal D’ Souza, NCO  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, Virginia 22314 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprie-
tary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in develop-
ing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
Mattiq respectfully submits this comment to the Office of Science and Technology Policy 
in support of the development of America ’s AI Action Plan. The rapid innovation of AI 
seen thus far —and the need for America to maintain and extend its dominance and lead-
ership in AI innovation and development —is of paramount importance to Mattiq. We are 
grateful that “it is the policy of the United States to sustain and enhance America ’s global 
AI dominance in order to promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness , and 
national security, ”1 and for the opportunity to contribute to the development of the AI 
Action Plan.  
We are an Illinois -based startup spun out of Northwestern University, building the 
world ’s most technologically advanced materials and chemistry discovery & design com-
pany. Mattiq was founded in 2021 by Dr. Chad A. Mirkin, the George B. Rathmann Pro-
fessor of Chemistry and Director of the International Institute for Nanotechnology at Northwestern University, and Dr. Andrey Ivankin, the CTO, who leads the development of the Mattiq ’s core ultrahigh- throughput experimentation, data, and AI technology.  
We are pioneering revolutionary ultrahigh -throughput technologies for accelerating the 
discovery and development of novel materials and the breakthrough applications they enable, while generating the largest, highest -quality, and most diverse datasets to tr ain 
the most advanced materials AI models. Not only can these technologies allow America  
to outpace global competitors in developing superior materials and breakthrough tech-nologies across key industries, but they can also strengthen supply chain resilienc e for 
critical material technologie s—reducing reliance on scarce strategic and “rare earth” min-
erals essential for America ’s defense and economy.
2 Moreover, these technologies  will 
1 Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artiﬁcial Intelligence , Exec. Order No. 14,179, 90 Fed. 
Reg. 8,741 (Jan. 31, 2025).  
2 See, e.g. , Unleashing American Energy , Exec. Order No. 14,154, 90 Fed. Reg. 8,353 (Jan. 29, 2025) 
(“Unleashing American Energy ”) at § 2(b)- (c) (stating it is the policy of the United States “to establish 
our position as the leading producer and processor of non -fuel minerals, including rare earth minerals, 
which will create jobs and prosperity at home, strengthen supply chains for the United States and its 
allies, and reduce the global inﬂuen ce of malign and adversarial states” and “to protect the United 
States ’s economic and national security and military preparedness by ensuring that an abundant sup-
ply of reliable energy is readily accessible in every State and territory of the Nation. ”); see also  Declaring 
a National Energy Emergency , Exec. Order No. 14,156, 90 Fed. Reg. 8,433 (Jan. 29, 2025) ( “National 


Faisal D ’Souza  
March 15, 2025  
Page 2 
cement America ’s leadership in the global materials AI race, securing long -term techno-
logical and economic dominance.  
However, much like with the race for Artificial General Intelligence, the race to achieve  a 
true Artificial General Materials and Chemistry Intelligence —which will enable the win-
ner to seize strategic  military  and economic dominance in countless area s—will be a long 
and resource -intensive journey. In our comment, we explain the strategic importance of 
AI for materials innovation, why the “data gap” for materials discoveries is the bottleneck 
preventing America from fully harnessing AI to discover advanced strategic materials, 
how Mattiq is working to close that gap to provide America with the opportunity to fully 
unleash AI’ s potential for materials discoveries, and our recommendations on the AI Ac-
tion Plan for America to win that race.  
Strategic Importance of AI for Materials Innovation  
Geopolitical and economic leadership has long been driven by breakthroughs in materials science and the transformative technologies they enable. From the silicon that fueled the semiconductor revolution to advanced alloys that power quantum computing and f orm 
the backbone of modern aerospace and defense, materials innovation remains a corner-stone of national power. History has shown  that breakthroughs in materials can reshape 
global power dynamics .  Just as the silicon transistor cemented U.S. technological domi-
nance for decades, China ’s near- monopoly on rare earth elements in the early 2010s illus-
trates how control over critical materials can be leveraged for economic and strategic a d-
vantage. Sustaining leadership in this domain is not merely advantageous ; it is a strategic 
imperative for technological supremacy, economic resilience, and national security.  
AI has the potential to revolutionize materials discovery by dramatically reducing time-lines from years to mere months or weeks while significantly lowering costs. Leading the race in AI for materials discovery is of immense importance, as it will allow th e U.S. to 
outpace global competitors in developing superior materials and breakthrough technol-ogies across key industries and strengthen resilience of materials supply chain for critical 
technologies.  
Energy Emergency ”) at § 1 (“ The energy and critical minerals ( “energy ”) identiﬁcation, leasing, devel-
opment, production, transportation, reﬁning, and generation capacity of the United States are all far 
too inadequate to meet our Nation ’s needs. We need a reliable, diversiﬁed, and aﬀordable supply of 
energy to drive our Nation ’s manufacturing, transportation, agriculture, and defense industries, and to 
sustain the basics of modern life and military preparedness ”; “The United States ’ insuﬃcient energy 
production, transportation, reﬁning, and generation constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to 
our Nation’ s economy, national security, and foreign policy. ”). 


Faisal D ’Souza  
March 15, 2025  
Page 3 
Materials Data: the Biggest Challenge and the Greatest Opportunity 
Despite AI ’s impressive current capabilities, a “data gap” prevents full harnessing of AI’s 
potential to rapidly make advanced materials discovery . America must close that gap 
before its adversaries do so.  
Modern AI algorithms require vast, high -quality training datasets to achieve “superhu-
man ” performance— yet materials datasets remain scarce, fragmented, and inconsistent. 
Without sufficient examples to learn the underlying chemistry and physics, current AI 
models —including  the major large language models ( LLMs ) like ChatGPT, Claude, and 
Gemini —struggle to make accurate predictions and generalize beyond known materials. 
That is because training models on the same general ly available datasets  causes their per-
formance to converge, highlighting that true differentiation comes from proprietary and 
highly reliable datasets.  
But the design universe for materials —their composition and structure, properties, and 
environmental interactions —is extraordinary diverse and nearly infinite, posing a signif-
icant challenge in generating adequate training datasets and developing transform ative 
AI models that can generalize across a wide range of materials problems. Moreover, com-putational modeling data frequently lack experimental validation, while experimental data are still collected in a near- linear, slow manner, stored in siloed databases, and rec-
orded in inconsistent machine -unreadable formats. Additionally, traditional methods can 
effectively explore and generate data for only a tiny fraction —less than one percent —of 
the vast materials design universe, leaving the opportunity to discover significantly su-perior materials largely out of reach.  
In sum, w hile advancements in materials AI algorithms are crucial for winning the race  
to fully harness AI for materials discoveries , the true key to unlocking AI ’s full potential 
today lies in closing the data gap: whoever achieves this first will secure a lasting com-petitive advantage in the next era of materials innovation.  
Ma#iq ’s Unparalleled Materials Data -Generation Engine:  
Fueling AI to Exponentially Accelerate the Discovery of  
Advanced Materials Critical to America ’s Defense and Economy 
Mattiq is building the fastest, most scalable, and generalizable materials data- generation 
engine in the industry. Our unrivaled ultrahigh -throughput synthesis technology enables 
access to breakthrough materials from a vastly expanded design space, accelerating inno-vation across industries —including chemicals, catalysis, photonics, optoelectronics, elec-
tronics, semiconductors, aerospace, defense, and energy —at speeds thousands to mil-
lions of times faster than the next best -in-class approach. By developing c omplementary 
high- throughput screening and end -use validation capabilities in an application -specific 
manner, we are creating vast and continuously expanding training datasets essential for 


Faisal D ’Souza  
March 15, 2025  
Page 4 
building  transformative AI models that can generalize across a wide range of materials 
problems.   
Mattiq ’s core proprietary “Megalibrary”  technology— enabled by breakthroughs in nan-
otechnology, chemistry, and engineering —revolutionizes materials science and chemis-
try in a way akin to how genomic chip technology transformed bio science and drug dis-
covery. Megalibrary two -by-two centimeter chips enable  us to positionally encode over 
100 million unique nanomaterial candidates, each with complex yet precisely  controlled 
composition, size, and structure, unlocking previously unimaginable throughput and de-
sign space for materials explorations and data generation.  
Similar to drug discovery and development, high- throughput discovery with Megalibrar-
ies does not always guarantee successful translation into end -use applications but  still 
provides a vastly superior starting point for today ’s materials development workflow. By 
scaling up, integrating into end -use systems, and validating the performance of Megal i-
brary discoveries— either in -house or through strategic partnerships —M attiq continu-
ously refines its Megalibrary technology, maximizing the relevance of generated da ta and 
increasing the likelihood of successful deployment.  
Crucially, all Megalibraries materials data are generated under highly unified and con-trolled experimental parameters, processed through standardized quality assurance pipelines, and securely stored in a secure database: ensuring consistency, reliability, and 
scalability. Not only will these datasets enable the development of state- of-the-art mate-
rials AI models, but they will also serve as the ground truth for theoretical frameworks 
and computational modeling, allowing the creation of more accurate models for complex 
nanoscale materials and processes. Ultimately, this will pave the way for the purely syn-thetic design of novel materials with desired unprecedented properties, eliminating the need for physical experiments.  
Recommendations for America ’s AI Action Plan  
Mattiq  believes that, among other important priorities, America ’s AI Action Plan should 
emphasize the following points.  
Infrastructure . America needs to make  national investments  to establish  cutting -
edge shared advanced materials characterization hubs, equipped with the most so-
phisticated materials and chemistry characterization tools. Additionally, America 
should develop hubs dedicated to scaled- up synthesis, end -use system integration, 
and validation  of new materials to accelerate real -world deployment.  
America should also create  incentives and funding mechanisms  for instrument man-
ufacturers to drive advancements in  massively parallel and high -throughput experi-
mentation and automation, ensuring the infrastructure keeps pace with the rapid evo-
lution of materials discovery.  


Faisal D ’Souza  
March 15, 2025  
Page 5 
America should also e xpand access to  computational resources, making high -perfor-
mance computing more abundant and widely available to researchers and innovators. 
These critical resources are beyond the reach of most groundbreaking startups, yet they are essential for unlocking  AI’s full potential in materials science and maintaining 
U.S. leadership in the global materials innovation race.  
Talent.  America needs to develop a talent pipeline that bridges AI and materials sci-
ence, ensuring that America has the human capital to sustain leadership  in this im-
portant field . We recommend new education and training initiatives at all levels. Uni-
versities should be supported (through NSF grants, for example) to create interdisci-plinary curricula that blend materials science, computer science, and applied math , 
producing graduates fluent in all of those domains. Federal fellowships or traineeships 
can incentivize Ph.D. students to pursue cross -disciplinary research in AI -guided ma-
terials design. Likewise, national labs , and industry could offer internship programs 
for young scientists and engineers to gain hands -on experience with AI -driven exper-
imentation platforms.  
Investment . While of immense national importance, developing this capability 
is highly resource- intensive, and the gap between innovation and commercial suc-
cess— the ”valley of death ”—is simply too vast to be bridged by private investment 
alone. Strategic public support is essential to ensure these groundbreaking advances reach real -world applications and secure U.S. leadership in materials innovation.  
Industrial Collaboration through Policy.  It is also essential for America to  foster 
a closer interface between high- throughput experimentation companies, AI compa-
nies and industrial players  to accelerate the real -world impact of AI -driven materials 
discovery. America should take a whole -of-nation approach and incentiviz e compa-
nies to pursue the development of novel materials —enhancing their competitiveness 
and strengthening supply chain resilience, particularly for  nationally critical technol-
ogies— to drive deeper industry engagement. Additionally, providing a clear frame-
work and guidance for intellectual property in the context of data sharing and AI model development  can help break down silos, encourage collaboration, and acceler-
ate the commercializa tion of AI -driven materials innovations.  
National Interest Policy.  Finally, America  should also provide strategic mechanisms 
and incentives  to encourage companies developing  materials data at scale and  ad-
vanced materials AI  to prioritize investments and partnerships within America.  En-
suring that these critical assets remain within a n America -centered innovation ecosys-
tem will help safeguard economic and technological leadership in AI -driven materials 
discovery.  
These proposals should accelerate America’ s dominance and increase its chance of win-
ning the race to achieve AI -enabled Artificial General Materials and Chemistry Intelli-
gence. And Mattiq is an example of how some of the existing investments and 


Faisal D ’Souza  
March 15, 2025  
Page 6 
partnerships between the government and private industry have already shown promise.  
Mattiq is the grateful recipient of grants designed to advance America’ s leadership in 
cutting -edge technologies, including grants from the NSF ’s Small Business Innovator Re-
search (also known as America’ s Seed Fund powered by NSF) (“ SBIR ”) Phase I program,3 
as well as the U.S. Department of Energy ’s (“DOE ”) Advanced Research Projects Agency -
Energy program ( “ARPA -E”), High -Performance Computing for Energy Innovation pro-
gram (“ HPC4EI ”).4  
Despite the somewhat modest sums we have received in grants awarded to date (in an 
aggregate amount of about $2.6 million), we have already developed, in the four short years since our founding, a portfolio of novel, highly durable alternatives to strategi cally 
critical element: iridium.
5 Iridium is a rare and expensive element, and is considered to 
be “critical mineral” by DOE,6 as well as a “strategic material of interest ” by the U.S. De-
fense Logistics Agency due to its use in guided missile systems, military semiconductors, and aircraft engines.
7 Iridium is also critical to the production of diversified energy 
sources because it is a catalyst for the oxygen evolution reaction that is used to make hydrogen from water, making it important to America ’s goal to further unleash the pro-
duction of reliable energy domestically.
8 However, iridium is both rare and expensive, 
and is primarily sourced from South Africa and Russia, posing geopolitical challenges.9 
Speeding the discovery of new materials to replace iridium— as well as other critical and 
rare elements critical to America’ s defense and economy— requires intentional and in-
tense increases in funding from federal agencies to companies, like ours, committed to putting America first. While iridium substitutes are one initial area of focus for Mattiq, countless other areas exist f or similar innovation in the interests of resource diversity, 
enhanced performance, and raw discovery.   
Implementing our proposals above, some of which involve increasing America ’s existing 
investments and commitments to partnerships with private industry, will simultaneously advance several paramount priorities of America, such as increasing America ’s domi-
nance and leadership in AI technologies, freedom from existing imbalances in access to 
3See, h`ps://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=2420066 , 
h`ps://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=2151713 . 
4 See h`ps://hpc4energyinnovation.llnl.gov/projects . 
5See h`ps://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231003314654/en/Ma`iq -Develops -Portfolio -of-
Novel -Catalysts -to-Solve- Key-Materials -Challenge -in-the-Global -Scale -Up-of-Clean- Hydrogen .  
6 See Notice of Final Determination on 2023 DOE Critical Materials List , 88 Fed. Reg. 51,792 (Aug. 4, 
2023) ( “DOE Critical Materials List ”). 
7 See h`ps://www.dla.mil/Strategic -Materials/Materials/ . 
8 See Unleashing American Energy at § 2(c); see also  DOE Critical Materials List.  
9 See, e.g. , Addressing Egregious Actions of the Republic of South Africa , Exec. Order No. 14,204, 90 Fed. 
Reg. 9,497 (Feb. 12, 2025) at § 1 (“ In addition, South Aﬀrica has taken aggressive positions towards the 
United States and its allies, . . . ”).  


Faisal D ’Souza  
March 15, 2025  
Page 7 
rare earth or alternative materials, and the further development of state -of-the-art weap-
ons and defense systems.10 
* * *
In closing, Mattiq is an enthusiastic supporter of America ’s efforts to take the opportuni-
ties presented by AI and other advanced technologies seriously. We stand ready to help 
advance and achieve America ’s priorities  and look forward to further collaboration on 
our important work. 
Very truly yours, 
______ ____________ 
Dr. Andrey Ivankin 
Co-F ounder & Chief Technology Officer
Mattiq, Inc.
10 See, e.g. , Establishing the National Energy Dominance Council , Exec. Order No. 14,213, 90 Fed. Reg. 
9,945 (Feb. 20, 2025) at § 1 ( “We must expand all forms of reliable and aﬀordable energy production to 
drive down inﬂation, grow our economy, create good -paying jobs, reestablish American leadership in 
manufacturing, lead the world in artiﬁcial intelligence, and restore peace through  strength by wielding 
our commercial and diplomatic levers to end wars across the world. By utilizing our amazing national 
assets, including our crude oil, natural gas, lease condensates, natural gas liquids, reﬁned petroleum 
products, uranium, coal, biof uels, geothermal heat, the kinetic movement of ﬂowing water, and critical 
minerals, we will preserve and protect our most beautiful places, reduce our dependency on foreign imports, and grow our economy —thereby enabling the reduction of our deﬁcits and o ur debt. ”). 


