 
 
Cato Institute • 1000 Massachusetts Ave., N.W. • Washington, D.C. 20001 •  (202) 842 -0200  
 Fax: (202) 842 -3490  • www.cato.org  
 1 of 4 
 
 
Comments of Matt Mittelsteadt in response to Request for 
Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan  
  
I appreciate the opportunity to provide comments related to the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy (OSTP)’s Request for Information on “the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan.” These comments do not represent the views of any party or 
special interest group but are intended to assist the OSTP as the agency formu lates 
administration AI policy.  
In the service of the administration’s emphasis on continued AI innovation, I seek to emphasize 
two key points:  
1. Efforts to combat AI ideological bias could stifle necessary industry experimentation 
and innovation and should be avoided. As an alternative, administration policy should 
oppose government -imposed ideological bias.  
2. New tariffs challenge the administration’s stated goal of “American AI leadership.” 
To avoid industry -limiting cost increases and supply constraints, the administration is 
strongly encouraged to rethink the current tariff strategy.  
 
Efforts to Combat AI Ideological Bias Could Stifle Necessary Industry Experimentation 
and Innovation  
At the AI Action Summit, Vice President JD Vance articulated a commitment to “ensure that AI 
systems developed in America are free from ideological bias and never restrict our citizens' right 
to free speech.”i No matter the intentions, federal actions aimed at influencing AI ideological 
bias present significant practical and innovation risks.  
AI bias is an inherent aspect of AI technology. While developers can refine and influence model 
outputs, completely eliminating bias remains impossible. Modern AI systems rely on 
probabilistic methods and extensive, complex training datasets, resulting in variability and scale 
that make exhaustive testing or screening prohibitively expensive and impractical. Leading AI 
companies openly acknowledge these limitations. For example, xAI’s disclosures note that as AI 
is “rapidly evolving and is probabilistic in nature” users should expect outputs that might be 
“offensive,” “objectionable” or inaccurate.ii If leading labs already struggle to limit unwanted 
outputs and biases, federal anti -bias efforts will face even greater challenges.  
Efforts to influence ideology are not just impractical, but risk significantly hindering today’s 
breakneck AI innovation. Currently, developers prioritize technical advancement without being 
encumbered by complex ideological compliance requirements, enabli ng fast model iteration . The 
value of this innovative freedom is evident in the rapid tempo of recent releases. Just months 


2 of 4 
 after OpenAI announced  O1 and introduced the frontier -pushing “reasoning model” paradigm, 
competitors xAI and Anthropic were free to rapidly pivot and release their own reasoning 
models, Claude 3.7 and Grok -3. Likewise, just six weeks after Google pushed frontiers with its 
Gemini Deep Research tool, OpenAI was able to nimbly respond in kind with its own  Deep 
Research model. This unparalleled market agility is only possible because leading AI labs are 
free to focus on innovative model design, not ideological content.  
Government attempts to regulate ideological bias would significantly slow this innovative cycle. 
If pressured to curate outputs, developers would need to conduct extensive testing, implement 
costly safeguards, and continuously monitor compliance. This woul d extend development 
timelines, increase costs, and reduce agile market response times. This slowdown would 
disadvantage American companies in the highly competitive global AI race.  
Ideological bias concerns are best addressed through market -based solutions. Differences in 
organizational philosophies, politics, and market strategies already provide a wide variety of 
consumer choice. For instance, Anthropic’s models are guided by the U nited Nation’s 
Declaration of Human Rights,iii while xAI emphasizes more conservative approaches based on 
“Reasoning from First Principles.”iv Open-source models further broaden these options, allowing 
users to select models aligning closely with their values and to compare outputs to identify 
biases.  
While AI ideological diversity should be left to the market, administration policy should take a 
firm stand against government -imposed ideological bias . By clearly communicating this stance, 
the administration can positively influence regulatory norms that could guide states, other 
nations and perhaps even future administrations.  
Burdensome Tariffs Will Constrain AI Development  
In 2025, American firms have committed over one trillion dollars in new AI investments over 
four years.v This unprecedented investment represents a generational innovation opportunity. To 
maximize potential, the administration should eliminate unnecessary costs and regulatory 
barriers that could hinder progress. High tariffs are particularly concerning, posing significant 
risks by reducing the impact of investments and possibly disrupting essential supply chains. To 
sustain American AI innovation, the administration must consider the negative impacts of 
restrictive tariffs. 
Currently, many critical components for AI and digital technologies depend on imported 
materials unavailable or not manufactured in the U.S. due to regulatory restrictions or inadequate 
domestic supplies. For instance, gallium arsenide,vi used to manufacture a range of cutting edge 
electronic and semiconductor components, has not been produced in the United States since 1985 
due to Clean Air Act restrictions.vii Similarly, tantalum, vital to Nvidia’s leading AI graphics 
processing units (GPUs), has not been domestically produced since 1959 because of low -grade 
domestic mineral reserves.viii Tariffs cannot incentivize reshoring or domestic production for 
these materials; they can only raise tech industry cost burdens.  
Even where domestic production of AI -critical components is technically feasible, increased 
tariffs could significantly raise costs. Proposed new tariffs on semiconductors present the most 


3 of 4 direct and concerning example for AI development.ix Economic analysis of the 2018 -19 Section 
301 Chinese tariffs revealed not only a 3 -4% increase in semiconductor prices ,x but also imposed 
a $32 billion tax burden on the technology sector .xi This recent history suggests cost increases 
should be expected, especially considering the scale and breadth of new policies.
The administration should also consider that many industry price burdens will result from tariffs 
on commodities seemingly unrelated to artificial intelligence.  For instance, when constructing 
data centers, the primary component of the “shell” or facility that houses the servers is steel. As 
facility costs account for an estimated 23% of total dat a center construction expenses, new steel 
tariffs could depress U.S. data center buildout.xii Beyond basic steel, tariffs will hit an 
unpredictable array of components, big and small, potentially adding to a significant industry 
burden.
In the uniquely critical case of power transformers, tariffs risk not only cost increases but supply 
disruptions. Transformers are a data center supply chokepoint – without these essential 
components new data centers cannot receive energy supply and cannot be brought online. 
Presently, transformer stock is heavi ly constrained and purchasers are facing extensive lead 
times of 120 -210 weeks.xiii Currently, Canada, Mexico, and China supply the majority of U.S. 
transformers,xiv with domestic production covering only 20%.xv Proposed and levied tariffs on 
these three essential suppliers risk dangerous economic blowback. In retaliation to tariffs, China 
has already deployed export restrictions on AI -relevant materials,xvi while Canada has threatened 
oil, critical mineral, and electricity restrictions.xvii If these nations extend such restrictions to 
transformers, already precarious supply constraints could be exacerbated with the possible 
impact of halting or disrupting the AI data center buildout.
I strongly urge the administration to reconsider restrictive tariffs. Open trade and stable supply 
chains are vital for sustaining economic success and capitalizing fully on current AI investment 
opportunities.
Conclusion
Artificial intelligence offers immense potential, and the forthcoming AI Action Plan must avoid 
barriers to innovation. High tariffs risk diluting crucial investments and inviting disruptive 
supply constraints. Efforts to influence ideological bias are impractical and threaten market 
agility and innovation. By avoiding these policies, the administration can fully embrace its 
commitm ent to unfettered innovation, securing economic benefits and American economic 
success.
i The American Presidency Project, “ Remarks by the Vice President at the Artificial Intelligence Action Summit in 
Paris, France ,” UC Santa Barbara , February 11, 2025.  
ii xAI, “Terms of Service – Consumer ,” last updated February 14, 2025.  
iii Anthropic, “ Claude’s Constitution ,” May 9, 2023.  
iv xAI, “Our Mission ,” accessed March 13, 2025.  
v Julaiza Alvarez and Lynn Doan, “ Tech Giants Have Pledged Over $1 Trillion in US Investment, So Far ,” 
Bloomberg , February 25, 2025.  


4 of 4 vi Omanjana Goswami, “ Chipping In: Critical Minerals for Semiconductor Manufacturing in the U.S. ,” MIT Science 
Policy Review 4  (August 21, 2023): 118 –126. 
vii PubChem, “ Gallium Arsenide ,” National Library of Medicine , accessed March 13, 2025.  
viii “Mineral Commodity Summaries: Tantalum ,” U.S. Geological Survey , January 2024.  
ix Callum Jones, “ Trump Threatens 25% Tariffs on Foreign Cars and Semiconductor Chips ,” The Guardian , 
February 18, 2025.  
x Peter Herman et al., Economic Impact of Section 232 and 301 Tariffs on U.S. Industries  (United States 
International Trade Commission, March 2023).  
xi Trade Partnership Worldwide, LLC, Analysis of Section 301 Tariff Impacts on Imports of Consumer Technology 
Products (Consumer Technology Association, July 2022) . 
xii John McWilliams et al., “ Data Center Development Cost Guide ,” Cushman & Wakefield , 2025. 
xiii National Infrastructure Advisory Council, Addressing the Critical Shortage of Power Transformers to Ensure 
Reliability of the U.S. Grid  (National Infrastructure Advisory Council, June 2024).  
xiv World Integrated Trade Solution, “ United States Parts of Electrical Transformers, Static Conver Imports by 
Country in 2023 ,” The World Bank , accessed March 13, 2025.  
xv Kevin Jacobs et al., “ Supply Shortages and an Inflexible Market Give Rise to High Power Transformer Lead 
Times,” Wood Mackenzie , April 2, 2024.  
xvi Amy Lv et al., “ China Expands Key Mineral Export Controls After U.S. Imposes Tariffs,” Reuters, February 4, 
2025. 
xvii Jarrett Renshaw and Arathy Somasekhar, “ CERAWeek Canada Could Restrict Its Oil Exports to U.S. If Trump 
Trade War Escalates ,” Reuters, March 12, 2025.  


