2/26/2025 via FDMS  
Matt Barnhouse   
To whom it may concern, I would like to address my concerns over the development and 
implementation of AI into the everyday lives of the citizens of the United States and this country as 
a whole. The concerns I have are, will this AI be over seeing or inte racting with the citizens lives and 
if so. Who will be responsible for overseeing its implementation and controlling the oversight to the 
privacy and the accountability of the information that the AI is going to be collecting/providing to 
the citizens. Due  to AI being used in Apple products has already been tampered with to where 
citizens putting in the word racists into their phone via voice has been showing Trumps name just 
prior to actually putting the right word. This is no glitch or mistake, it was pur posely done by 
someone. Then during the election cycle getting information via AI through Google, when you asked 
why you should for Trump it would say there was no information and couldn’t give it due to political 
reasons I believe it was. But if you asked  about Karmala it had no problem rambling off reason to 
vote for her. Once again not a so called glitch or mistake. So who’s going to be overseeing this AI to 
make sure it is not being altered or manipulated or abused in a way that the citizens won’t be ge tting 
false information or no information on some things or individuals? This would need to be monitored 
daily for the fact it could be tampered with by anyone working at the company or companies that 
will be supplying it. Who’s going to decide what inform ation is first put into the AI’s system? The fact 
that it’s already being manipulated and that the history of technology being used against the 
citizens of this country. I’m more than very concerned about this for the safety of this country and 
its citizen s. WHAT KIND OF GUARANTEES, PROTECTION AND RECOURSE ARE THE CITIZENS 
GOING TO HAVE. To battle against the abuse that’s sure to come from this type technology. Thanks 
for the opportunity to voice my concerns. M.Barnhouse  


