Respon se to the US’s AI Action Plan 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
AI in its current form only exists to screw over people, and/or to generate worthless content while making 
absurd money for their creators for no good reason. Everything AI stands for today is pointing towards  a 
path that leads to the death of human creativity and interactions. Generating images, text, automatic 
responses, chat, all of it will slowly result in our species being more and more isolated from each other. 
Why would I read my emails when my AI can do  it, and then reply to them automatically? Which would 
then be read and replied by the other person's AI, making this entire process completely pointless.  
Why would I hire a skilled professional to create an image when I can generate one for free with AI? It will 
look awful but unfortunately most people don't care, and they'd rather take an awful result if it's free. I'm 
seeing this in TV commercial and news  already where if they don't have a proper cover image for 
something they just generate some trash with AI knowing full well most people wouldn't care.  
And what I'm afraid the most is when AI is used to generate fake content of real-life subjects as it's trying 
to make it look real. We're very close to having such fake imagery and text that could easily fool lots of 
people into thinking a huge real-life event has occurred, when in fact it was faked for mass panic or as a 
call to action. There was a very god article I read a while ago which I sadly don't remember where it's from, 
but I do remember this part clearly: "AI takeover wouldn't be like in the Te rminator series with weapons 
and war. All it would need to do if it was sentient and had the same intentions is to spread a huge amount 
of fake news to confuse people and turn them against each other for total chaos."  
Now obviously this is slightly far-fetched  from reality as it takes a sci -fi movie's plot into the example, but 
the logic is still there. When everyone has access to AI that can generate almost anything it becomes an 
astronomical problem  because we ’ll soon be u nable to differentiate real info from fake ones . It’s already 
difficult to do knowing how many people generate their cont ent wit h soulless AI , and it will be come e ven 
worse over time . 
Another point I want to  addre ss is how AI compan ies market their solution as a huge opportunity to upli ft 
your business and what not . While in reali ty what do these AI tools do again? The answer is nothing. A ll 
we see if the marketing but there ’s no substance or pro duct behin d it, it ’s just a money making scam 
essentially. There ’s literally no faithful applicati on of t oday’s AIs, they only exist to cause p roblems.  I see 
these marketing pitches all the time saying how their AI is so  good at doing X, how it ’s going to save them 
Y time on these tas ks while also being cheap . While in reali ty it can’t do anything productive at all  and we 
can all tell the people doing the marketing al so don ’t understand how any of this works, they ju st want 
money. Sounds famili ar? That ’s a b asic description  of typical  scam s, just in the clothes o f “AI” beca use it ’s 
trendy and eve ryone el se is doing it so it ’s somehow justified , but w e all know it ’s worthless  trash.  
All of these slowly compound tog ether into a pro blem that affects pretty mu ch everyone on our planet. 
When most i nformation is fake, most re sponses are fake, most images and motion picture is fake, who ’s 
going to believe anythi ng anywhere ? Who ’s going to  interact with other people when they could use their 
AI to do it? Some people see AI as our savior and the wa y to the future  but they  really don ’t realize how 
insanely harmful and dangerous  this is. When we rely an AI to do everything  for us, we’ll stop existing as 
a speci es as we will no longer do anything in this world.  We’ll become useless and our life will simply be a 


misery of not doing any thing and/or relying software to  do all the work for us.  The end resul t is a huge 
imbalance  in our percepti on that potentially removes  some or all neg atives , and leave some positives 
behind. Which may sound good in theory but in return w ill make everything miserable for ourselves. If 
there ’s no balance between good and bad in our life and events, everything will be a soulless mix of 
pointless experiences beca use the relative to compare  them by will have been partially  or completely 
eliminated . 
We’re arguabl y alread y in one of the biggest misinformation periods  of all time in our spec ies’ lifetime and 
it’s not ge tting any better as time goes on. Just look at the average person in today ’s world: they believe 
everything they ’re told, don ’t question anything and can ’t even  think  logically at all.  While they ’re also 
able to mass spread whatever f ake information they believe to be true to other peo ple which are likely to 
believe it all. Give it enough  time and we’ll be sitting here drowning in mass generated fake content not 
bein g able to differentiate between what ’s tru e and what isn ’t. 
Another huge issue is the environme nt. There are so many people who do their best to save our planet as 
much as they can, and then AI companies come in to use absur d amount of electrical energy to p roduce 
all of thi s worthless garbage  that doesn ’t benefi t anyone but themselves. It ’s mind -blowing how  this is still 
legal after years, they ’re doing an unimaginable d amage to our planet without being useful in th e slightest . 
AI in its current form simply  doesn't have a use case and I strongly advise for its outright ban. I don ’t 
believe  it can be productively useful for anyone other than to cause harm and misinformati on. It's a huge 
hit on everyone in modern countries , the sole exceptions being their creators who get rich from this 
useless misery that hurts everyone else in return, let alone being a benefit.  


