 
 
1 
Russ Garcia  
Menlo Microsystems, Inc.  
49 Discovery, Suite 100  
Irvine, CA 92618  
www.menlomicro.com  
 
March 1 4, 2025  
 
Faisal D’Souza, NCO  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  
Executive Office of the President  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
 
Submitted by email to  
 
Re: Request for Information (RFI) on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action 
Plan (“Plan”)  
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
 
Menlo Microsystems  (“Menlo Micro”)  strongly agrees with the Trump Administration that 
artificial intelligence (AI) will have revolutionary applications in economic innovation, job 
creation, national security, healthcare, and countless other industries, creating a new era of 
American excell ence. However, existing problems in the supply chain and U.S. energy 
infrastructure threaten to restrict the development of AI in ways that could paralyze American 
innovation. It is apparent that we need to start investing in and building the infrastructur e of 
tomorrow. For this reason, we respectfully submit the following proposal to the Office of 
Science and Technology Policy.  
 
Where We Stand  
 
The AI industry is not waiting for a lagging government or uncertain investors to catch up. With 
the race for AI dominance happening now, these advanced AI chip manufacturers will flock to 


2 
any component that meets its needs, including in adversarial countries willing to heavily invest 
in these critical solutions.  
To counteract this, America must act decisively, focusing on foundational component 
technologies that enable AI manufacturing and infrastructure technologies at scale. We know the 
United States has been the most successful when it moves early to secure all  aspects of 
innovative and disruptive designs. Just as we did in the Cold War, America should once again 
invest heavily in the innovations and components that will achieve its “uncontested technological 
superiority.”1 
There are several newer microelectronics technologies, including those using novel materials or 
technology platforms, that could result in the reduced size, weight, power and cost that will 
revolutionize not only the AI industry but also U.S. defense syste ms. In fact, DOD has already 
been directed by Congress in the 2025 National Defense Reauthorization report to foster, grow, 
and collaborate with domestic technology innovators on the development of these key 
components.2 Rather than starting these investments from scratch, U.S. AI policy could instead 
build on existing DOD spending in dual -use AI component innovations.  
To go a step further, DOD, the Department of Commerce, the National Science Foundation, the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and 
domestic companies should all collaborate through additional public -private p artnerships that 
prioritize funding and involvement in leap -ahead technologies.3 These investments will ensure 
U.S. technological superiority in AI and related fields.  
Collaboration may include developing and sustaining a secure domestic supply chain and 
ensuring the protection of intellectual property, processes, manufacturing facilities, or other 
related technologies used in the manufacturing of such systems.  
Strategic Investments for Long -term Technological Superiority 
The quick development of DeepSeek’s latest AI model highlights the need for the United States 
to maintain its technological leadership and secure its intellectual property and domestic supply 
1 National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. 2024. Strategies to Enable Assured Access to Semiconductors for
the Department of Defense. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press. https://doi.org/10.17226/27624 . Page 52.  
2 Senate Armed Services Committee. July 8, 2024. National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025.
https://www.congress.gov/118/crpt/srpt188/CRPT -118srpt188.pdf . Page 70.  
3 National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. 2024. Strategies to Enable Assured Access to Semiconductors for
the Department of Defense. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press. https://doi.org/10.17226/27624 .  


3 
chain. We must prioritize the rapid deployment of advanced AI chips, relying on reliable 
switching solutions and improved manufacturing and testing processes to maintain leadership in 
this space.  
While AI chips are critical, the broader ecosystem around semiconductor production —including 
key components —is equally important. Securing this entire supply chain is essential for 
sustaining technological advancement. The future of American AI and our tec hnological 
autonomy rests on whether we are able to domestically produce essential components and 
address vulnerabilities in the supply chain.  
Maximizing Energy Efficiency  
It is no accident that the United States is developing cutting -edge AI infrastructure. The 
Department of Defense’s commitment to nuclear energy, driven by the country’s national 
security needs, in many ways has set America up for success in developing the energy resources 
required to meet this moment. However, there remain hurdles that the country must overcome to 
meet the growing energy demands from AI. While the private sector and governments look to 
expand and invest in energy resources, it is also impor tant that energy be used as efficiently as 
possible to maximize the value of these new investments.  
This will only be possible if the American government expands its investment in targeted 
advanced technologies. For example, by prioritizing energy efficient components in power plants 
and data centers, the government can secure an energy supply so vast th at entire plants will not 
need to be built. Microgrids equipped with energy efficient technologies will be an excellent way 
to achieve this goal.  
Protecting Critical Assets  
Securing the AI supply chain both means promoting domestic manufacturing and protecting 
critical and expensive hardware at data centers, fabs, and power plants. Because heat poses 
considerable risks to these technologies, the government should prioritize i nvesting in solutions 
that reduce , limit,  or do not generate heat and mitigate dangers to these systems.  
As the U.S. aims to maintain its technological leadership, we should invest in leap -ahead 
technologies that radically transform the manufacturing process, rather than simply evolving 
current technologies. Technologies like microelectromechanical systems (M EMS) switches and 
novel materials like glass substrates are critical in pushing the boundaries of AI chip 


4 
performance. These advanced MEMS devices actually outperform semiconductors in these types 
of applications due to their ultra -high conductivity, allowing better control of large amounts of 
electricity without producing added heat.  
Glass substrates, too, have the potential to revolutionize semiconductor design by improving 
electrical performance, reducing thermal challenges, and enabling denser, more reliable circuits. 
While currently uncommon in the industry, prioritizing new innovations built on glass will 
position the United States far ahead of other nations and at the forefront of critical AI component 
technologies.  
In fact, these low -heat solutions and novel materials will also set the United States up to succeed 
in technological revolutions that will follow AI —particularly quantum computing, which is 
thermally sensitive and requires energy solutions and electrical c omponents that minimize heat. 
Investments in these innovations will lay the foundation for future breakthroughs and American 
technological excellence.  
Conclusion 
AI will drive the future of global economies, and the United States must prioritize the supply 
chain and energy infrastructure that will further American technological leadership.  
Remaining competitive and securing our technological future requires the United States to 
significantly increase its investments not only in advanced chips, but in the other technological 
components that will make the existence of AI possible. Orienting th ese investments and public -
private partnerships specifically towards leap -ahead innovations will ensure the United States 
maintains its global leadership in AI today and jumpstarts our leadership in the technologies of 
tomorrow.  
About Menlo Micro 
Headquartered in Irvine, California, Menlo Micro has created an entirely new category of 
electronic switches with its Ideal Switch ® technology. The Ideal Switch ® eliminates 
compromises and tradeoffs by combining the benefits of electromechanical and solid -state 
switches into the best of both worlds. Menlo Micro is bringing more than 99 percent reductions 
in size, weight, power, and cost to dozens of industries suc h as medical, aerospace and defense, 
telecommunications, consumer electronics, industrial IoT, and test and measurement.  


