Before the 
NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION AND THE OFFICE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
POLICY 
Washington, DC 
In the Matter of      ) 
    ) 
Development of an Artificial     ) Docket No. NSF_FRDOC_0001-3479 
Intelligence Action Plan       ) 
Comments of Meta Platforms, Inc.1 
March 14, 2025 
INTRODUCTION 
Meta appreciates the opportunity to provide comments regarding the development of an 
Artificial Intelligence Action Plan. The President has put forward a bold vision for American AI 
leadership, based on American innovation and entrepreneurship, and the strength of our free 
markets. This will empower a future in which America leads the world in the development of 
technology that will “promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national 
security.”2 Meta is grateful for the President’s leadership on this issue and is eager to partner 
with the Administration in bringing the benefits of AI to the American people and the world.  Today, American AI is the global gold standard. It is fundamentally important for American 
workers, our economy, and our national security that the U.S. maintain its leadership in the AI 
technological revolution. Open source AI is the foundation of continued U.S. leadership and 
long-term dominance of this technology. Meta has been at the forefront of open source for over 
a decade. An open source approach to AI leads to better products, faster innovation, and 
larger economic growth and increased productivity.  To achieve the shared American vision this Administration has put forth, America’s Artificial 
Intelligence Action Plan should address three critical issues: (1) protecting and promoting open 
source AI; (2) reducing barriers to innovation and growth in the U.S., including stopping a 
patchwork of state laws that could impede innovation and investment;and (3) continuing 
advocacy abroad to oppose foreign governments’ attempts to impose undue restrictions and 
discriminatory measures on American companies, especially in relation to AI. SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS 
2 Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence, The White House, Jan. 23, 2025, 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/removing-barriers-to-american-leadership-in-artificial-int
elligence/. 1 This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan 
and associated documents without attribution. 


As the President said, “[w]ith the right Government policies, we can solidify our position as the 
global leader in AI and secure a brighter future for all Americans.”3 To help craft these policies, 
and to fulfill this Administration’s goal of securing America’s AI dominance, Meta makes the 
following recommendations: 
❖Protect and Promote American Open Source AI by:
➢Promoting and encouraging export of American open source AI.
➢Preferring open source AI for government use.
➢Ensuring the U.S. government has the necessary AI expertise and resources to
leverage AI dominance to benefit the American people.➢Building public-private partnerships focused on, and providing incentives for,
re-skilling and workforce development.➢Developing testbeds to leverage open source models to accelerate discovery
in critical scientific fields.➢Issuing guidance on fair use and enabling access to new sources of training
data.❖Preserve American Global Technology Leadership by:
➢Removing energy, infrastructure, and permitting barriers to enable timely and
efficient advancement of energy infrastructure to support domestic data center
investment and growth.➢Streamlining and shortening the various approval processes for constructing
data centers and deploying terrestrial and subsea broadband fiber.➢Supporting federal preemption of state laws that conflict with the
Administration’s pro-innovation agenda.❖Continue Strong Advocacy Abroad to Support Global American Technology
Leadership by:➢Defending American AI companies and innovators from overseas extortion and
punitive fines, penalties, investigation, and enforcement.
DISCUSSION 
I.The Policy of the U.S. Should be to Protect and Promote American Open Source
AI
A.Open Source AI is a Critical Element of American National Security
President Trump has established that “[i]t is the policy of the United States to sustain and 
enhance America’s global AI dominance in order to promote human flourishing, economic 
competitiveness, and national security.”4 In the global race for AI dominance, the U.S. has an 
opportunity to secure its leadership through American open source AI.5 Open source models 
5The United States Must Win The Global Open Source AI Race, 
https://www.justsecurity.org/104676/american-ai-leadership-requires-support-open-source/ (“Openly-released 
software is a cornerstone of America’s current dominance in the global technological ecosystem, with nearly every 
digital service–including every app and website enabled in some way by open source software. Open-weight AI 
translates many of the benefits associated with open source software to the world of AI.”). See also Defense 4 Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence, Jan. 23, 2025, 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/removing-barriers-to-american-leadership-in-artificial-int
elligence/. 3 Id. 
2 


will become the standard on which developers around the world build, and on which further 
innovation is based. To further the U.S.’ national and economic security, that global AI 
substrate should be American open source AI.6  
1.To Win the Race with China, America Must Compete via Open Source AI
Recommendation 
Promote and encourage export of American open source AI.  Open source models are 
essential for the U.S. to win the AI race against China and ensure American AI dominance. 
Export controls on open source models would take the U.S. out of that race, allowing 
Chinese companies like DeepSeek to set the AI standard on which the world builds and 
embedding authoritarian values in the global tech ecosystem. Instead, the U.S. government 
should support U.S. open source models as the best way to ensure the systemic advantages 
of setting the global AI standard accrue to the U.S., creating a flywheel of innovation that will 
propel American AI dominance. Restricting American companies’ ability to release open source AI models would directly 
benefit China.7 Without a vibrant U.S.-based open source AI ecosystem developers worldwide 
would turn to open source models developed by other countries, including China. The U.S.’ 
global competitive advantage has long been decentralized and open innovation.8 Government 
mandates to close models–through export controls or other tools favoring closed models–to 
prevent China from gaining access to American models would be ineffective and ultimately 
only serve to weaken U.S. interests.  In particular, restricting open models would be particularly harmful, entrenching the advantages 
of China and other geopolitical adversaries because we will have ceded the space to lead in 
establishing the global standard for AI development. At the same time, this will not prevent 
these companies from leveraging the world’s leading AI technology, as the recent DeepSeek 
release illustrated. DeepSeek is alleged to have been built using outputs from OpenAI’s closed 
models, demonstrating that even a restrictive “closed source” policy would not stop 
technological diffusion to China.9  2.Open Source AI Can Directly Benefit National Security Through
Government Adoption
9 OpenAI Warns DeepSeek 'Distilled' Its AI Models - Reports,
https://www.newsweek.com/openai-warns-deepseek-distilled-ai-models-reports-2022802.8Open Source AI is the Path Forward, https://about.fb.com/news/2024/07/open-source-ai-is-the-path-forward/.7See generally China wants to dominate in AI — and some of its models are already beating their U.S. rivals, 
https://www.cnbc.com/2024/12/17/chinese-ai-models-are-popular-globally-and-are-beating  
-us-rivals-in-some-areas.html.6 Policy Checklist To Accelerate American Tech Innovation & Win The Tech Race With China 
https://americanedgeproject.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/AEP-Policy-Checklist-2025.pdf. See also Ex-Google 
chief warns west to focus on open-source AI in competition with China, 
https://www.ft.com/content/84cf0b2e-651d-4cb4-b426-ebc7afd634fa.  Priorities in the Open-Source AI Debate, https://www.csis.org/analysis/defense-priorities-open-source-ai-debate 
(“Preliminary evidence suggests that an open foundation model ecosystem could benefit the U.S. Department of 
Defense’s… sustainment, cybersecurity, and innovation priorities.”). See generally The Real Threat of Chinese AI: 
Why the United States Needs to Lead the Open-Source Race, 
https://www.foreignaffairs.com/china/real-threat-chinese-ai.  
3 


Recommendation 
Prefer open source AI for government use.  Following the model of the Cybersecurity and 
Infrastructure Security Agency, the U.S. government should adopt an “open by default” 
software development policy, including related to the utilization of AI. Open source AI models 
offer more secure processing of sensitive data without calling to an API, better customization 
and fine-tuning with government data, cost savings to taxpayers given the underlying model 
is free of charge, and deployability to challenging environments such as the battlefield or 
space. 
Open source AI can strengthen U.S. security while reducing costs and saving taxpayer 
money.10 Meta has made Llama available to U.S. government agencies working on national 
security uses, and we are working with multiple parts of the U.S. government and its 
private-sector partners to facilitate uses for national security and civilian purposes. We believe 
that government should harness open source AI models like Llama to enable: ●Efforts at improving government efficiency, such as by piloting programs that accelerate
or automate routine paperwork processes,11 streamline logistics, or improve service
delivery; and●National security use cases that give the U.S. technological, logistical, or other types of
advantage over its adversaries.
Open source AI models, such as Llama, are strongly positioned for these use cases, as they 
allow the U.S. government to securely process sensitive data on its own servers without the 
need for processing on servers controlled by a private company. Open models also allow 
customization and fine-tuning with government data, again without the need to expose that 
data to the model developer. Open source AI models also allow the government to apply 
complex modifications and engage in unique interventions, such as processing new modalities 
(e.g., sensor data from robotics, model data from computer-assisted design programs). This 
level of local, secure, and customizable control is not possible with closed, proprietary models, 
and for this reason we encourage the government to prioritize the adoption of open models.12 3.Open Source AI Enhances Cybersecurity
Recommendation 
Ensure the U.S. government has the necessary AI expertise and resources to leverage 
AI dominance to benefit the American people.  The U.S. government and the American 
people must reap the rewards of American AI dominance, whether via gains in government 
12 Defense Priorities in the Open-Source AI Debate, 
https://www.csis.org/analysis/defense-priorities-open-source-ai-debate (“[A] robust open foundation model 
ecosystem might enable AI use cases that receive less attention from closed-source providers. Because open 
models can be retrained, fine-tuned, and broadly customized, they can serve as a basis for 
national-security-specific applications.”). 11 Efficient government and safe innovation: A collaborative approach to artificial intelligence policy, 
https://www.brookings.edu/articles/efficient-government-and-safe-innovation-a-collaborative-approach-to-artificial-i
ntelligence-policy/.  10Open Source AI Can Help America Lead in AI and Strengthen Global Security, 
https://about.fb.com/news/2024/11/open-source-ai-america-global-security/.  
4 


efficiency, breakthroughs in health research, or more advanced military technology to give us 
an edge over our adversaries. To maximize the benefits of this technology to the American 
people and U.S. interests, the U.S. needs AI expertise at all levels of government and 
adequate resourcing for testing, experimentation, and deployment. In addition to deploying 
AI to benefit the American people, government should have the expertise and resources to 
collaborate with industry on national security risks that enables model developers to 
anticipate and test for pressing security risks. 
By maintaining the open source path for AI, the U.S. can produce benefits for its own cyber 
defenders, which strengthens the security of physical and digital assets and supply chains in 
both government and the private sector. History has shown repeatedly that open source 
technologies not only offer significant security advantages over closed technologies, but that 
foundational technologies are considered secure specifically because  they are open source.13 
A core example of this is open source encryption technology, which allows the security 
community to collectively identify and fix issues well before a single bad actor can find and 
exploit them.14 Other examples include open source tooling that is used by cybersecurity 
experts for penetration testing and threat detection.15  Open source AI models can help bolster cyber defense mechanisms, which is critical for 
repelling the attacks of criminal or state-sponsored Advanced Persistent Threats, such as 
those originating from Iran or China. For example, the security community is already using AI 
for vulnerability detection.16 At Meta, we use Llama for report generation, threat modelling, and 
reducing defender bottlenecks. We believe that the U.S. government can leverage open 
source AI models, including Llama, in a similar way. Open source models, tools, and 
benchmarks like CyberSecEval17 have also been a catalyst for exploration in the security 
ecosystem.18 This ultimately benefits cyber defenders.  
18 Model Card for (llama-3-CEH) LLama3-CyberSec, https://huggingface.co/L33tcode/llama-3-8b-CEH-hf. See 
also Interactive Tools Substantially Assist LM Agents in Finding Security Vulnerabilities, 
https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.16165; How open-source LLMs enable security teams to stay ahead of evolving threats, 
https://venturebeat.com/security/how-open-source-llms-enable-security-teams-to-stay-ahead 
-of-evolving-threats (“Open-source LLMs enable us to scale security patching for open-source components in
ways that closed models cannot.”).17 Purple Llama CyberSecEval: A benchmark for evaluating the cybersecurity risks of large language models, 
https://ai.meta.com/research/publications/purple-llama-cyberseceval-a-benchmark-for- 
evaluating-the-cybersecurity-risks-of-large-language-models.  16 GreyNoise Intelligence Discovers Zero-Day Vulnerabilities in Live Streaming Cameras with the Help of AI, 
https://www.greynoise.io/blog/greynoise-intelligence-discovers-zero-day-vulnerabilities-in-live-  
streaming-cameras-with-the-help-of-ai.  15 See generally Kali,The most advanced Penetration Testing Distribution, Kali.org; Metasploit, 
The world’s most used penetration testing framework https://www.metasploit.com/, Snort, https://www.snort.org/, 
About Sigma, https://sigmahq.io/docs/guide/about.  14 See generally Why Open Source Is Mandatory For Secure Communication In A Quantum World, 
https://www.forbes.com/councils/forbestechcouncil/2024/03/29/why-open-source-is-mandatory-for-secure-commu
nication-in-a-quantum-world.  13 See Understanding Open Source Security: Pros, Cons, and Community Impact, 
https://linuxsecurity.com/features/must-read-articles/examining-open-source-benefits-security-challenges 
(“Security has always been at the core of open-source software adoption. By permitting anyone to inspect, modify, 
and improve source code directly, open-source projects utilize global developer communities as an invaluable 
resource to quickly detect bugs and vulnerabilities in their source code. Open auditing increases trustworthiness 
and effectiveness in security measures employed by widely used software such as OpenSSL, Linux, and Apache 
HTTP Server.”). 
5 


B.Open Source AI is a Critical Element of American Economic Security
Open sourcing AI technologies is an accelerant for economic growth and productivity. In a 
world where economic security is national security, this aspect of America’s ability to win the 
global competition is critical. Open source AI reduces the barriers to entry to AI and drives 
down prices so that AI can be deployed not only by the few technology companies that have 
the computing infrastructure to pretrain large models, but also by the broader community of 
developers. Using free open source AI models offers an affordable entry point for developers, 
enabling them to leverage advanced technologies without a hefty investment. Open source 
models are available, without charge, for everyone to use, modify and build on, becoming an 
entry point for micro, small, and medium businesses to cutting-edge AI technology. Open 
source AI models allow developers to better customize models and control how they are 
deployed, which includes greater control over how data is used and with whom it is shared, 
making it easier to work with sensitive data. Having access to state-of-the-art AI creates 
opportunities for entities of all sizes. Open source provides the foundations on which 
developers can innovate that would otherwise be prohibitively costly. 1.Open Source AI Supports the Economy and Empowers American Workers
Recommendation 
Build public-private partnerships focused on, and provide incentives for, 
re-skilling and workforce development.  The government should build on initiatives 
that President Trump launched during his first Administration, including building 
public-private partnerships focused on re-skilling and workforce development (e.g., 
direct programs, certification programs, and vocational training grants) to help 
workers succeed in a rapidly changing  economy. As part of these efforts, the 
government should provide incentives–utilizing existing or creating new tax 
credits–for companies to help them provide any necessary skills training to their 
workforce.19 The Vice President has stated that AI presents “the extraordinary prospect of a new industrial 
revolution …” and that the Trump Administration “will always center American workers in our AI 
policy…. We believe and we will fight for policies that ensure that AI is going to make our 
workers more productive, and we expect that they will reap the rewards with higher wages, 
better benefits and safer and more prosperous communities."20  Meta believes that open source will be critically–and uniquely–important for driving the 
economy for the following decades and empowering American workers. American AI 
leadership continues to drive the American economy. In November 2023, Goldman Sachs 
predicted that in the next decade AI would lead to a 1.5% annual increase in U.S. productivity 
growth and as much as a 15% boost to global GDP.21 Open source AI will be a multiplier in 
21 AI may start to boost US GDP in 2027, 
https://www.goldmansachs.com/insights/articles/ai-may-start-to-boost-us-gdp-in-2027.   20 Quotes from U.S. Vice President JD Vance's AI speech in Paris, Feb. 11, 2025, 
https://www.reuters.com/technology/quotes-us-vice-president-jd-vances-ai-speech-paris-2025-02-11. 19 https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/presidential-actions/executive-order-establishing-
 
presidents-national-council-american-worker.   
6 


driving economic impact because, as the FTC notes, it has “the potential to drive innovation, 
reduce costs, increase consumer choice, and generally benefit the public – as has been seen 
with open-source software.”22 We have seen a groundswell of enthusiasm for open source AI 
from businesses of all sizes across the U.S. They recognize the transformative potential of AI 
for competition, innovation, and productivity, which is already contributing to U.S. economic 
growth. From agriculture to healthcare, construction, manufacturing, and energy sector, they 
are driving innovation and enhancing productivity and efficiency.  We agree with Vice President Vance about the importance of maintaining a pro-worker growth 
path for AI to enable job creation in the U.S.23 A recent study by the International Labour 
Organization found that far more jobs will be augmented by AI than automated.24 AI can be 
used to elevate the capabilities of less-skilled workers, streamline repetitive tasks and enhance 
customer engagement, job fulfilment and employee retention. According to a recent McKinsey 
& Company report, “[E]mployees anticipate AI will have a dramatic impact on their work. Now 
they would like their companies to invest in the training that will help them succeed. Nearly half 
of employees in our survey say they want more formal training and believe it is the best way to 
boost AI adoption.”25 Open models are particularly suitable for this as they can be adapted to 
meet the unique economic needs of different communities and businesses within the U.S.  2.Open Source AI Ensures America’s Global Leadership in Science
Recommendation 
Develop testbeds to leverage open source models to accelerate discovery in critical 
scientific fields. 
Open source AI will drive the future of scientific breakthroughs. We believe that American open 
source AI models are important for securing U.S. leadership in critical scientific areas 
necessary for ongoing American global leadership. As Office of Science and Technology Policy 
(OSTP) nominee Michael Kratsios testified, “The shape of future global order will be defined by 
whomever leads across AI, quantum, nuclear, robotics, and other critical and emerging 
technologies. Chinese progress in nuclear fusion, quantum technologies, and autonomous 
systems all press home the urgency of the work ahead.”26 Today, openly-released assets like 
26 Nominations Hearing for Michael Kratsios to Lead the Office of Science and Technology Policy and Mark 
Meador to Serve as a Federal Trade Commissioner, U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and 
Transportation,  
https://www.commerce.senate.gov/2025/2/nominations-hearing-for-michael-kratsios-to-lead-the-office-of-science-
and-technology-policy-and-mark-meador-to-serve-as-a-federal-trade-commissioner; Trump science policy 
nominee calls China most formidable technology, science competitor, 
https://www.reuters.com/world/us/trump-science-policy-nominee-calls-china-most-formidable-technology-science-
2025-02-24.  25 Superagency in the workplace: Empowering people to unlock AI’s full potential, McKinsey & Company, Jan. 28, 
2025, https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/mckinsey-digital/our-insights/superagency-in-the- 
workplace-empowering-people-to-unlock-ais-full-potential-at-work. 24Generative AI and jobs: A global analysis of potential effects on job quantity and quality, https://www.ilo.  
org/sites/default/files/wcmsp5/groups/public/@dgreports/@inst/documents/publication/wcms_890761.pdf.  23 Quotes from US Vice President JD Vance's AI speech in Paris, 
https://www.reuters.com/technology/quotes-us-vice-president-jd-vances-ai-speech-paris-2025-02-11/. \  22 On Open-Weights Foundation Models, https://www.ftc.gov/policy/advocacy-research/tech-at-  
ftc/2024/07/open-weights-foundation-models. 
7 


Llama and Meta FAIR models are advancing promising new scientific applications, including 
molecular analysis,27 clinical trials development,28 scientific literature synthesis,29 material 
science,30 robotics,31 and computer vision.32 We believe ensuring the openness of the 
underlying technologies, such as models, code, and libraries will allow for AI to advance 
scientific fields, unblock key bottlenecks to scientific discovery, and strengthen the U.S.’ 
position as a science superpower.  
We believe that the government has a role in developing testbeds to leverage open source 
models to accelerate discovery in these areas. We encourage the U.S. government to 
leverage DOE National Labs and the Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence for Science, Security 
and Technology (FASST) initiative to use open source models to tackle the most critical 
scientific problems of our day. C.Open Source AI is Inextricably Tied to the American Tradition of Fair Use
Recommendation 
Issue guidance on fair use and enable access to new sources of training data.  To 
enable continued AI innovation and the ability for American AI companies to compete 
globally, the Administration should clarify that the use of publicly available data to train 
models is unequivocally fair use, through an Executive Order, an agency report, or other 
statement. The Administration should also require its trade partners to explicitly respect the 
fundamental international principle of territoriality with respect to copyright and ensure that 
training is protected.  The ability to train AI models is critical to sustaining American dominance in AI. While the 
current balance in copyright rules recognizes that activities like AI model training are permitted 
under the long-standing doctrine of “fair use,”33 copyright maximalists seek to upend this 
balance, creating the risk that American innovators could be mired in cease and desist orders 
and fights over how much to pay rightsholders for things not required by law. Removing any 
uncertainty regarding fair use will ensure American innovators are able to compete globally, 
33 See, e.g., Meta’s Initial Comments to the U.S. Copyright Office’s NOI on Artificial Intelligence & Copyright,
Docket No. 2023-6 (Oct. 30, 2023), available at https://www.regulations.gov/comment/COLC-2023-0006-9027,
particularly beginning on page 10. See also, e.g., Authors Guild v. Google, Inc. (Google Books), 804 F.3d 202,
209 (2d Cir. 2015); Kelly v. Arriba Soft Corp., 336 F.3d 811, 818–22 (9th Cir. 2003); Meta’s Reply Comments to the
U.S. Copyright Office’s NOI on Artificial Intelligence & Copyright, Docket No. 2023-6, at 3, nn. 18-19 (Dec. 6,
2023), available at https://www.regulations.gov/comment/COLC-2023-0006-10332.32 Introducing Meta Segment Anything Model 2 (SAM 2), https://ai.meta.com/sam2. See also Envision and Meta 
Partner to Revolutionize Accessibility with AI, https://www.letsenvision.com/blog/meta-envision 
-partnership-accessibility.31 Advancing embodied AI through progress in touch perception, dexterity, and human-robot interaction, 
https://ai.meta.com/blog/fair-robotics-open-source.   30 Open Catalyst, https://ai.meta.com/research/impact/open-catalyst.  29 Language Agents Achieve Superhuman Synthesis of Scientific Knowledge, https://arxiv.org/pdf/2409.13740.  28 How Llama is helping Saama deliver new possibilities in personalized medicine and data-driven care, 
https://ai.meta.com/blog/saama-data-driven-care-built-with-llama.  27 How Organizations Are Using Llama to Solve Industry Challenges, https://about.fb.com/news/  
2025/01/organizations-using-llama-solve-industry-challenges. 
8 


preserving the balance inherent in copyright law and protecting the access to data that will 
advance American AI dominance.34  
To that end, the Administration should clarify that the use of publicly available data to train 
models is unequivocally fair use, through an Executive Order, an agency report, or other 
statement. It could also be done legislatively. For example, Japan35 and Singapore36 have 
enacted stand-alone exceptions to copyright. Additionally, we recommend that the 
Administration require its trade partners to explicitly respect the fundamental international 
principle of territoriality37 regarding copyright, which means for example, that if a model is 
trained in the U.S., then it is clearly U.S. copyright law which applies.  II. Pro-Innovation Policies Will Preserve American Global Technology Leadership
America leads the world in AI innovation, but continued leadership in AI is not assured. The 
Vice President rightly warned, “excessive regulation of the AI sector could kill a transformative 
industry just as it's taking off.” Such measures (e.g., regulations that impose restrictions on 
models based on obsolete measurements, do not account for deployment type, or impose 
onerous reporting or testing requirements where the evaluations practices are nascent), would 
impede innovation in the U.S. to the detriment of the goal of American AI dominance.  Within days of taking office, the President revoked “certain existing AI policies and directives 
that act as barriers to American AI innovation, clearing a path for the United States to act 
decisively to retain global leadership in artificial intelligence.”38 The President then directed 
agency heads to identify and rescind or modify regulations that “harm the national interest by 
significantly and unjustifiably impeding technological innovation, infrastructure development, … 
research and development, economic development, energy production, land use, and foreign 
policy objectives.”39  In line with these actions, we propose that the Administration’s AI Action Plan establish a 
policy framework that affirmatively promotes advances in AI technologies and guarantees 
continued American AI leadership by reducing barriers to innovation and growth. This should 
include, among other initiatives, steps to reduce barriers to AI infrastructure investment, and 
stopping the growing thicket of state AI regulations. A.Reducing Barriers to AI Infrastructure Investment
39 Ensuring Lawful Governance and Implementing the President’s “Department of Government Efficiency” 
Deregulatory Initiate, Feb. 19, 2025, 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/02/ensuring-lawful-governance-and-implementing-the-presi
dents-department-of-government-efficiency-regulatory-initiative.  38 Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence, Jan. 23, 2025, 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/removing-barriers-to-american-leadership-in-artificial-int
elligence.  37 Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works (1886) Art. 7, 8; Title 17 U.S.C. Chapter 1; 
see also https://www.uspto.gov/ip-policy/copyright-policy/copyright-basics (last visited Mar. 10, 2025). 36 Singapore Copyright Act of 2021, Sections 243-244. 35 Copyright Law of Japan, Article 30-4. 34 The Act does not “give a copyright holder control over all uses of his copyrighted work,” and one who “puts the 
work to a use not enumerated [by the Act] does not infringe.” Twentieth Century Music Corp. v. Aiken, 422 U.S. 
151, 154-55 (1975); see also CDK Glob. LLC v. Brnovich, 16 F.4th 1266, 1276 (9th Cir. 2021) (“[T]he Copyright 
Act does not provide copyright owners the exclusive right to use their works.” (emphasis in original)).  
9 


Advanced AI infrastructure is important for training larger, higher capability models and to distill 
knowledge into smaller and more efficient models,40 both of which are critical for developing a 
robust and innovative AI ecosystem. To maintain U.S. leadership, the government should 
continue to boost the investment in, and deployment of, AI infrastructure, including U.S.-based 
data centers.  
1.Powering America’s AI Infrastructure
Recommendation 
Remove energy, infrastructure, and permitting barriers to enable timely and efficient 
advancement of and investment in energy infrastructure to support domestic data 
center investment and deployment. 
We recommend that the AI Action Plan establish a comprehensive national strategy to support 
domestic data center investment and deployment, including policies that provide investment 
stability, timely access to reliable electricity, and speed to market and permitting efficiency.  
A strong business environment is critical to the U.S. remaining globally competitive for 
domestic data center development - particularly given the significant capital expenditures 
required to build and maintain over the long-term. Policies that provide needed certainty and 
stability to promote U.S. data center investment may include: (1) creation of an inventory and 
fund development of “Industrial Certified Sites” for data centers consistent with State efforts to 
develop certified sites (either greenfield, brownfield, or redevelopment) that can break ground 
in 6-months or less, and (2) consideration of federal incentives to encourage investment in 
domestic data centers and related data center equipment. Aligned with the ambition of the National Energy Dominance Council, modern and reliable 
energy infrastructure is a critical path issue in ensuring U.S. global dominance in AI. Aging and 
insufficient grid infrastructure is leading to transmission and generation constraints, making it 
harder and longer for new data centers to connect to the grid, slowing development. Federal 
energy policy that supports U.S. data center investment may consider: (1) supporting 
legislation to incentivize private investment in advanced nuclear generation technologies 
through federally-backed cost overrun insurance, (2) supporting passage of energy permitting 
reform legislation that includes clear agency timelines and faster review processes for new 
generation and transmission, (3) supporting grid enhancing technologies to unlock capacity in 
the existing transmission system, (4) providing clear guidelines on co-location or behind the 
meter options for data centers through Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) 
rulemaking to clarify cost allocation and treatment large customer load arrangements, and (5) 
supporting a robust domestic energy infrastructure supply chain through potential incentive 
structures to spur domestic production of critical electric infrastructure components, as growing 
supply chain bottlenecks, especially for transformers and breakers, is delaying data center 
investment and deployment. 2.Building and Connecting America’s AI Infrastructure
40 This helps facilitate model distillation, which is broadly the process of using a bigger, more powerful model to 
teach a smaller model. See generally Distilling the Knowledge in a Neural Network 
https://arxiv.org/abs/1503.02531.  
10 


Recommendations 
Streamline and shorten the various approval processes for constructing data centers 
and deploying terrestrial and subsea broadband fiber. 
Building a data center, including the supporting fiber network, requires dozens of approvals 
and permits at the local, state and federal level and permitting delays slow constructions and 
raise costs. Federal permitting policy should consider the following: (1) development of a 
Nationwide Permit for Data Center Uses through U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE), and 
(2) streamlining existing USACE Clean Water Act Section 404 permitting process.
The ability to rapidly deploy high-capacity fiber networks connecting data centers to each 
other, to the Internet backbone, and to the rest of the world is essential to U.S. AI leadership. 
The Administration should streamline the process of deployment of broadband facilities, 
especially on federal lands, where permitting and regulatory delays add substantially to cost 
and slow fiber deployment. Similarly, the ability to process the world’s data and train AI in the 
U.S. depends on the rapid and efficient deployment of subsea fiber networks. Regulatory 
delays in subsea cable deployment can add years and hundreds of millions of dollars in cost to 
what is already an expensive and time consuming process. The President’s 2020 “Team 
Telecom” Executive Order41 began the important process of improving subsea cable licensing 
over four years ago, but since that time the licensing process has grown increasingly complex, 
unpredictable, opaque and lengthy. This threatens new and existing systems and investments. 
The Administration should establish clear timelines for any Team Telecom and Federal 
Communications Commission processing of subsea cable applications, ensuring that 
America’s national interest, including its economic interests and the importance of American 
leadership in AI, are considered in the process.  B.Ensuring State Actions Are Consistent with the Federal Policy of U.S. AI
Dominance
Recommendation 
Support federal preemption of state laws that conflict with the Administration’s 
pro-innovation agenda.  This will be central to the success of the Administration’s vision for 
continued AI dominance and to avoid a patchwork of state laws which will hamper American 
AI innovation.  
In 2024, more than 700 AI-related bills were introduced across the States. Of those, 113 were 
enacted into law. In the first two months of 2025, the number of introduced bills has already 
surpassed the total for all of 2024. These bills take dramatically diverging approaches to 
regulating AI that will, collectively, result in an unworkable regulatory environment full of 
overlapping and contradictory standards. In aggregate, these laws will deter U.S. innovation by 
imposing a tax – one that costs both money and time – on every U.S. AI developer, which will 
41 Executive Order on Establishing the Committee for the Assessment of Foreign Participation in the United States 
Telecommunications Services Sector, Apr. 4, 2020, 
https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/presidential-actions/executive-order-establishing-committee-assessment-for
eign-participation-united-states-telecommunications-services-sector/. 
11 


have to navigate a complex web of state-by-state compliance requirements. As more states 
regulate, that tax will grow to the point that it will be far more costly, and far slower, to build AI 
in the U.S. than abroad. 
For example, the current proposals include adopting different foundational definitions, 
establishing different risk taxonomies, and pursuing different obligations on the development 
and deployment of models and systems. They also include importing obligations from the EU 
AI Act, like prohibitions on certain uses of technology, regulating using varying technical 
standards, and proposing civil and criminal sanctions.  The reality is that state regulations are limiting AI research and development here in the U.S. 
instead of offering regulatory freedom to explore and innovate, which is what will enable U.S. 
AI dominance. We are deeply concerned about the immediate and profoundly negative impact 
this could have on American AI innovation and leadership. In addition to proposing, and 
potentially enacting, new AI legislation, the state regulators are also interpreting existing laws 
to apply, without evidence or supporting science, to restrict AI development.  Taken from the state view, the U.S. is currently on path to developing an AI regulatory 
environment that is more onerous and more restrictive than that anywhere else - including in 
the EU. Analysis by the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation notes that this 
likely costs the economy billions of dollars annually—costs that are borne by businesses and, 
ultimately, passed on to consumers.42  The impact on AI innovation could be severe. Even if compliance with these laws might be 
possible–though in many cases these proposals are not technically or commercially 
feasible–compliance with such a vast matrix of laws and regulations covering every aspect of 
the AI tech stack would draw resources away from development and deployment. This, in turn, 
would dramatically slow down, fossilize, or halt entirely American innovation to the advantage 
of developers in China and other countries.  In addition to this impact on AI innovation, a fragmented regulatory environment will directly 
impact the national economy, and the ability for the Federal government - as well as State and 
local governments - to access and adopt AI technologies to deliver for the American people.  
III. The Administration Should Continue its Strong Advocacy Abroad to Support
Global American Technology Leadership
Recommendation 
Defend American AI companies and innovators from overseas extortion and punitive 
fines, penalties, investigation, and enforcement, pursuant to the policy set out in the 
President’s memorandum, ensuring U.S. companies will be able to compete fairly. 
The U.S. can continue its AI leadership by ensuring that global standards and regulations do 
not discriminate against or otherwise thwart American businesses and innovation. As the Vice 
President noted at the Paris AI Summit, “America wants to partner with all of you. We want to 
42 The Looming Cost of a Patchwork of State Privacy Laws, Jan. 24, 2022, 
https://itif.org/publications/2022/01/24/looming-cost-patchwork-state-privacy-laws. 
12 


embark on the AI revolution before us with the spirit of openness and collaboration. But to 
create that kind of trust, we need international regulatory regimes that foster the creation of AI 
technology rather than strangle it, and we need our European friends in particular to look to 
this new frontier with optimism.” We are encouraged that the Trump Administration is already 
taking a strong stand defending U.S. businesses abroad, especially in Europe.  
A.Foreign Regulatory Thickets Are Stifling American Innovation
American companies are being targeted unfairly in many instances, especially in Europe, 
where discriminatory regulations risk undermining U.S. companies’ opportunities to compete in 
the global AI marketplace. For example, Meta has been singled out by European regulators 
and fined over $2.8 billion, often for activities that are allowed when done by European 
companies. Under the guise of their competition and privacy laws, EU regulators are targeting 
Meta and other American technology companies and forcing innovative American companies 
to make unjust, unfair changes to our business models and our products (changes that they 
are not asking European companies to make). For instance, European regulators are 
beginning to enforce new restrictions under the EU Digital Markets Act that apply only to a 
small handful of companies that the EU designates as “gatekeepers” – virtually all of which are 
U.S.-based.The EU AI Act, the forthcoming Code of Practice, and how the Act will be enforced by each of 
the 27 EU Member States as well as the European Commission, will have negative 
implications for America's AI competitiveness. The EU’s political ambition was clear: set the 
global standard for the regulation of the development, deployment, and use of all AI systems 
and models. This emulates the approach of its privacy regime, the General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR), that disproportionately penalizes U.S. companies (e.g., almost €5 billion in 
fines have been imposed on U.S. companies to date). Fines in the AI Act are even more 
arbitrary and punitive: 7% of a company’s global revenue (an escalation from the 4% of global 
revenue targeted by Europe’s GDPR). U.S. companies will inevitably bear the brunt of this, as 
the EU AI Act sets up a regime that will target U.S. companies by focusing on size, reach, and 
number of users. At the same time, Chinese companies will get a free pass: DeepSeek’s R1 
model, for example, would not be in scope for many of the Act’s obligations because it falls 
below an arbitrary threshold established by the EU for so-called ‘“systemic risks.”  If the EU continues to target American tech companies—through uncertain and hostile 
regulatory regimes and other measures, such as digital services taxes, punitive antitrust laws, 
ambiguous privacy laws, the global AI standard will be Chinese. China is working toward 
becoming the global AI leader by 2030,43 investing an estimated $1.4 trillion in AI by 2030, and 
focusing on becoming a leader in both open source AI44 and also for industry-specific 
applications.45  
Instead of working with the U.S. to ensure China does not set the global standard, as the 
Information Technology & Innovation Foundation points out, “the EU has declared open 
45 China's AI industry could see US$1.4 trillion in investment in 6 years, executive says, Sep. 9, 2024,
https://finance.yahoo.com/news/chinas-ai-industry-could-see-093000369.html.44 See generally The Real Threat of Chinese AI: Why the United States Needs to Lead the Open-Source Race,
https://www.foreignaffairs.com/china/real-threat-chinese-ai43 China And AI In 2025: What Global Executives Must Know To Stay Ahead, 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/markgreeven/2024/12/23/china-and-ai-in-2025-what-global-executives-must-know-to
-stay-ahead/.
13 


season on American tech companies and the U.S. has mounted no coordinated 
response….These attacks hurt U.S. economic interests, threaten U.S. jobs and 
competitiveness, and weaken a key U.S. sector’s capacity for innovation through billions in lost 
revenue and opportunities.”46 In addition to costing U.S. companies billions in fines,47 European 
policymakers have delayed extraordinary innovations from reaching European consumers and 
businesses, and created a non-tariff barrier for U.S. companies.  
B.Foreign Regulators are Weaponizing Antitrust Review
The emergence of competition regulations aimed at curtailing the growth and influence of U.S. 
companies, especially in the EU and UK, has the potential for detrimental effect on American 
AI.48 From digital ex ante regulations, like Europe’s Digital Markets Act, to the punitive use of 
merger control regimes, these measures ostensibly promote competition and protect consumer 
data. In practice, they often serve as veiled attempts to restrict U.S. tech firms' ability to 
innovate and operate freely.49  Mergers and acquisition activity is a critical component of the innovation ecosystem because it 
provides an off-ramp for startups and venture capital to bring technology to scale – including in 
the AI space. Merger control plays an important role in maintaining competitive markets and 
protecting consumer interests. But, increasingly, competition authorities in Europe, the UK, and 
elsewhere are wielding merger control in a punitive manner against U.S. technology 
companies. These foreign enforcers are holding up transactions even where the statutory 
threshold for review is not met and regardless of whether a deal would actually enhance 
consumer choice or competition. This willingness to challenge deals outside of the legal 
thresholds creates legal uncertainty and business risk. Several jurisdictions have indicated 
their interest in reviewing not just acquisitions but also any AI partnerships, creating legal 
uncertainty and disincentivizing investments in AI.50  
50 For example, the UK Competition and Markets Authority has already reviewed key AI partnerships, and 
although it found no competition concerns it raised business legal uncertainty and risk in the case of several U.S. 
technology companies. In a joint statement by national competition authorities representing the EU, the UK, and 
the Biden Administration noted that agencies will be using all of their “available powers to … scrutiniz[e] 
investments and partnerships between incumbents and newcomers, to ensure that these agreements are not 
sidestepping merger enforcement or handing incumbents undue influence or control in ways that undermine 
competition.” Joint Statement on Competition in Generative AI Foundation Models and AI Products, 
https://www.justice.gov/atr/media/1361306/dl?inline. Similarly, South Korea recently amended its merger control 
regime to grant more powers to the Korean Federal Trade Commission (KFTC) and allow the agency to review 
and suspend most start-up acquisitions acquired by U.S. technology companies should they identify competition 
concerns. The EU has also suggested that “[...] competition authorities need to be “on guard over market 
concentration, anticompetitive behavior and new types of partnerships between tech companies.” Finally, the UK’s 
Competition Markets Authority has reviewed non-reportable transactions. 49 Defending American Companies and Innovators From Overseas Extortion and Unfair Fines and Penalties, The 
White House, Feb. 21, 2025, https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/02  
/defending-american-companies-and-innovators-from-overseas-extortion-and-unfair-fines-and-penalties.  48 See generally Digital Competition Regulations Around the World, Int’l Ctr for Law & Economics, May 16, 2024, 
https://laweconcenter.org/spotlights/digital-competition-regulations-around-the-world.   47 The EU’s Ten Biggest Antitrust Actions on Tech, TechCrunch, Sep. 21, 2024, 
https://techcrunch.com/2024/09/21/the-eus-10-biggest-antitrust-actions-on-tech.  46 US Policymakers Should Fight Back Against EU Attacks on America’s Tech Sector, Information Technology & 
Innovation Foundation, Mar. 25, 2024, https://itif.org/publications/2024/03  
/05/us-policymakers-should-fight-back-against-eu-attacks-on-americas-tech-sector. 
14 


CONCLUSION 
American innovation, entrepreneurship, and free markets have created the best AI in the 
world, poised to deliver a new industrial revolution. That leadership, challenged by China and 
others, is at risk from excessive regulation at home and abroad, legal uncertainty, and from 
foreign governments seeking to hobble American technology. The Trump Administration’s 
proposals, and the suggestions Meta offers above, will help ensure America continues to lead 
the world in AI, including critically important open source AI. Meta stands eager to work with 
the Administration to implement its Artificial Intelligence Action Plan and to secure economic 
benefits and national security for America and the American worker for generations. 
15 


