1 Metrify Health  
To:  Faisal D ’Souza, NCO  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  
From:  John Kim  
Metrify Health  
Action Plan Summary  
The focus of my action plan is regarding the implementation of the AI -enabled precision 
education platform  for academia, specifically for Nurse Practitioner  (NP) training.  There is 
a current deficit of physicians in the US, with the  Association of American Medical Colleges 
(AAMC) revealing a need for more than 202,000 physicians to achieve health equity today.  
Additionally, less medical school students are interested in primary care work, 
reimbursements have stagnated for physicians , and Family Medicine residencies are 
closing such as the one at University Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center.  Alternatives 
must be considered to provide health access to underserved and rural communities.  
One solution is to strengthen the workforce with NPs.  NPs are one of the fastest growing 
professions according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) growing at a 10 -year growth 
rate of 46%.  The American Association of Nurse Practitioners (AANP) share t hat there are 
over 385,000 active NPs today.  What would help is if NPs had Full Practice Authority (FPA) 
across all 50 states.  Currently, NPs must work under a collaborative agreement with 
physicians.  This can limit the location NPs work and can make it  difficult for continuity in 
services if the physician chooses to move or retire.  So far, 27 states have passed some 
level of FPA.  But this is not enough.  
An AI-enabled precision education platform must be tailored to NP education and clinical 
work.  Having worked to build this for the last 3 years, I am sharing my findings below along 
with the benefits for health systems, insurance companies, and US citizens.  
Why we need an AI -enabled platform for NPs  
NP education is condensed into 3 years with a mix of didactic and clinical training that 
includes simulation labs and clinical rotations with physicians and other NPs.  However, 
NP students, different from medical school students, come in with clinical exp erience as 
they were registered nurses (RNs) prior to entering into the NP program.  One comment that 
has been repeated to me is that there is a need to change the mindset from “taking order” 
to “giving orders”.  The change is from relying on a provider’s recommended treatment 
protocol to making a differential diagnosis and producing a treatment plan as an NP.   
An AI-enabled precision educ ation platform tailored for NP education can provide 
education on developing a differential diagnosis.  This is an incredibly important step as it 


2 sets the tone on the next validation steps, including ordering labs, deciding on general 
palliative or pain -management treatments, considering specialty consults, and developing 
treatment plans.   
Is Copyright data needed to finetune LLM  
The benefit of this platform is that most of the work can utilize open-source clinical 
practice guidelines.  Additionally, partnerships with each school can provide access to 
documents and patient scenarios that are proprietary to each NP program.   
The optimal situation will be to access published medical textbook and exercise data.  This 
does not require government intervention to convince publishers to open access to their 
data.  Rather, partnerships with publishing companies can include some form of profit-
sharing or equity  offer to get access to updated medical education data.  This will be an 
incredible advantage  to the care of patients as this tool will provide two main benefits:  
1)Standardization of care across all states
a.This platform can consolidate the data across all partnered publishers and
optimize the selection for the differential diagnosis and treatment protocols.
This can allow for the general understanding of care across all spectrums
and provide a tool that can  be used in any part of the country and abroad.
2)Geographic -specific care:
a.There are geographic -specific ailments such as Lyme disease and Rocky
Mountain Spotted Fever.  By utilizing University and University Hospital data,
the model can be finetuned to recognize geographic patterns and tailor the
education in that manner
b.This will further encourage those students to stay in their local region to
practice the medicine that they learned for the benefit of the local patient
population
Benefits to the Federal Government and Payors  
Utilizing NPs will make healthcare mor e affordable .  Studies have shown that preventative 
care and wellne ss visits can lead to overall savings .  That is why payors push to get 
physicians to see their patients with a  checklist of items on their Annual Wellness Visit  
(AWV).  The current problem is that there are  healthcare deserts  in addition  to a shortage of 
physicians across the country.  
The solution is to utilize NPs .  Research has shown that NPs work in rural and underserved 
communities more than physicians within states that have  given NPs Full  Practice 
Authority.  Additionally, telem edicine is a great way to reach patients in the se communities.  
Already telemedicine companies are hiring NPs to reach out to patients and have increase d 
access.   


3 An increase  in access to providers  will lead to frequent wellness visits and a decrease in 
high cost procedures due to preventable diseases  like diabetes .   
Benefits to Health Systems  
Across the country, health systems and hospitals are failing due to high costs and low 
reimbursements.  By focusing on the utilization of NPs, health syst ems can save on salary 
expenses and increase revenue generation.  According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
NPs salary is 60%  of Family Physicians and 51 % of Physicians in general.  These numbers 
translate to incredible savings.   
1)NP salaries are lower  and provide cost savings
a.According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, N Ps salary is 60%  of Family
Physicians and 51 % of Physicians in general.  These numbers translate to
incredible savings  to just maintain the existing patient panel size.   Even with
strong bonus structures for NPs, the overall cost  would still be lower than a
physician -only organization.
2)Hiring NPs can generat e more revenue
a.If the same sala ry expenditures were used to hire NPs, a health system could
hire more NPs than they could  Primary Care Physicians.  If each NP could
maintain the same patient panel size  as their physician counterpart , this
transition would translate  to an overall greate r patient volume leading to
greater revenue generation.  More patients lead to more revenue even in a
capitated model.
3)Bringing in NPs can increase patient satisfaction
a.Patients are currently struggling with w ait times with studies showing an
average w ait time of 26 days to see a physician
b.More NPs can decrease the wait time considerabl y allowing patients to see a
provider and even get the necessary referral to see a specialist.  Decreasing
wait time s will translate to great patient satisfaction  as they can access their
provider more freque ntly.
c.If this helps with a higher star  rating, the benefits spill over to greater revenue
generation as well.
Benefits to US citizens  
Even with our technolo gy today, there are millions of citizens who cannot get access to a 
physician.  Moreso, fam ily practices are closing down in rural America as reimbursement  
rates stagnate for phy sicians.  Research has identified that NPs work in rural and 
underserved communities more than physicians within states that have  given NPs Full  
Practice Authority.  Additionally, telem edicine is a great way to reach patients in the se 
communities.  Already telemedicine companies are hiring NPs to reach out to patients and 
have increase d access.   


4 An increase  in access to providers  will allow for frequent wellness visits and a decrease in 
high cost procedures due to preventable diseases  like diabetes .  This will translate to cost 
savings for the patient who lacks coverage or does not have a strong insurance plan.   
Additionally, NPs train ed in mental health care can increase access to be havioral health 
treatments that are increasingly needed throughout the country.  
Call to Action  
1)NP Full Practice Author ity must be provided in all 50 states
2)AI-enabled Precision Education and Preci sion Healthcare must be provided to NPs
3)This opportunity can be leverage d by other professionals like P hysicians Assistants ,
Nurses, and Lawyers.
4)This will lead to more primary care providers and trickle down to allow  physicians to
focus their education on secondary, terti ary, and qua ternary care.


