From: M. E.
To:
Cc:Subject:Date:Attachments:[External] Re: GSA, DOE, NREL, USDOT / FAA; DOS: Federal Executive Institute-FEI Property Development ?
Thursday, February 27, 2025 12:41:05 PM
Dear Commissioner Michael Peters, and GSA-PBS,
I am so very thankful to you, for personally responding to my outreach.
It is very heartening to know that our messages are being received & considered.
I am grateful for introduction to Flavio Peres.  I hope to understand his process that GSA will use to dispose of this FEI Campus, and to be included  
in that.
FLAVIO PERES:
As noted below, I have already reached out to a number of Federal Agencies (including Military) that could help us re-purpose this FEI property in a  
way that brings our AI-expertise and still best suits Federal Govt needs.
I think our Proposed Use of FEI Property for AI-Technology Centers of Excellence-COEs hits all of GSA's more important Efficiency topics:  AI-
embedded Smart Buildings; AI-enabled Energy Efficiency & On-Site Energy Infra; AI-enhanced Fleet Mobility & TeleMatics; etc.  
From our AI-Technology Centers of Excellence-COEs, GSA will be able to accomplish all your desired AI Use Cases (see below graphic):
https://www.gsa.gov/technology/government-it-initiatives/artificial-intelligence/how-were-using-ai/ai-use-case-inventory
https://www.gsa.gov/technology/government-it-initiatives/artificial-intelligence/ai-guidance-and-resources/ai-compliance-plan
I and my company have a long history of being involved in various GSA programs:
I formerly was Director of Federal BusDev for one of DC's pre-eminent Architecture firms, when the firm received GSA Design Award for
Jefferson Clinton Federal Building (Facade)...and when they were the Chief Architect for GSA's Master Planning of the Foreign AffairsSecurity Training Center (FASTC).
My LilyPad Airways company is in process of hiring your recently-RIFed GSA Manager who formerly led the GSA Fleet VehicleManagement & TeleMatics...we will task him to lead our AI-Ground Mobility Center of Excellence-COE activities.
My company has spent past few years supporting GSA-PBS activities related to EVSE Infrastructure rollout (prior to latest cuts) and helpedseveral companies capture those GSA $2-Billion BPA Contracts.
  This included advising them on FedRAMP & CyberSecurity Requirements
imposed by GSA.
My company is the BusDev advisor to an 8(a) General Contractor currently performing Construction-related & O&M Task Orders on GSAproperties in the DMV region.
My company has previously provided GSA with fairly-detailed Proposals for upgrade of the GSA DMV-region Buildings for Grid IntegratedEfficient (Smart) Buildings efforts, and encouraged GSA to consider integrating those in the planned New Consolidated FBI Headquartersprojects.
 We also proposed a comprehensive Community-based MicroGrid & Distributed Energy-DERs solution to GSA properties in DMV
region.
My company has approached to newly-appointed DOT Secretary Sean Duffy and proposed our AI-Enabled Transportation Center ofExcellence-COE for Ground Operations and Advanced Air Mobility-AAM.
Standing-by to hear how we can be involved in your disposition of this FEI property.
Michael J. Erickson, USMC-Retired
President, LilyPad Airways, LLC
Use case Intended purpose and expected benefitsStage of
developmentRights or
safety
impact?
Acquisition
analyticsTakes detailed data on transactions and classifies each transaction within thegovernmentwide category management taxonomy.ImplementationandassessmentNeither
AWSCAPTCHAsolverPart of a project to automate actions in AWS console using Selenium. Wedeveloped an AI model that can solve AWS CAPTCHA so our automated systemwon’t be blocked for being detected as a bot. The model is used in an AWS Lambdathat uses a headless Selenium driver. The model was trained from scratch usingTensorflow. We have discussed making a more general form of this solution that
could be applied to other AI and ML problems.Initiated Neither


Category
taxonomyclassifierClassification of obligation transactions in to GWAS subcategories when the existingFPDS coding scheme, PSC/NAICS, is insufficient for positive classification of atransaction.
 ImplementationandassessmentNeither
CategorytaxonomyUses token extraction from product descriptions to more accurately shape intendedmarkets for PSCs.Retired Neither
On Thu, Feb 27, 2025 at 11:24 AM Michael Peters - P wrote:
Mr. Erickson,
Thank you for your interest.   We are seeking to dispose of the FEI property and welcome  your interest in participating in the process.   I have copied
Flavio Peres who leads our disposition team and can keep you updated as the  process progresses.   Please let us know if you have any questions  in
the interim.Best,Michael
U.S. General Services Administration
Michael P. Peters
On Thu, Feb 27, 2025 at 11:14 AM M. E. wrote:
Dear GSA and Public Buildings Service-PBS,I noted the email sent by Assistant Commissioner for Facilities Management Andrew Heller, that GSA’s Public Buildings Service-PBS is looking
to eliminate 3,557 positions through a nonvoluntary Reduction in Force (RIF) — about 63% of its total workforce.
  Mr. Heller indicated that PBS
is pursuing “meaningful consolidation of space to occur and require less support,” which allows for consideration of reduced service levels forowned buildings.
  
That will help GSA comply with Presidential Order:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/02/implementing-the-presidents-department-of-government-efficiency-cost-
efficiency-initiative/
The executive order gives GSA 60 days to submit your plan to the Office of Management on the disposal of government-owned real estate“which has been deemed by the agency as no longer needed.”
PBS Commissioner Michael Peters has indicated that GSA is looking to cut its total real estate portfolio by 50%.
  Mr. Heller indicated that  “GSA
will introduce new technology, including AI, to improve efficiencies in the lease, acquisition and project management functions.”Time is running out for GSA-PBS to comply with the Executive Order as pertains to Property Disposal or Lease Termination Planning.My team is ready to assume the Lease on the FEI Property in Charlottesville, VA...and will use it to create the AI Centers of Excellence-COE that
Mr. Heller needs to gain GSA efficiencies. I have already contacted the University of Virginia (AI divisions) and invited them to collaborate withus on our Plan for FEI Campus.
I invite GSA-PBS, as well as the other Federal Agencies involved in Energy, Aviation, AI, etc. to join with my team in Public-Private Partnership
to re-purpose the FEI Campus for our AI-COEs.
  I have already reached out directly and indirectly to the Agencies such as: OSTP; State Dept;
FAA; Dept of Energy; INL; NREL; and US Military...allowing them to hear of our vision for FEI Campus.   I have also reached out to the various
(huge) IT & Investment Groups that were noted in the news as investing $Billions in USA-based AI-Data Centers.
GSA has used Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs) in the past...most notably when you wanted to achieve Federal Energy Management goals.   We
are not proposing anything new to you...read the GAO report:
https://www.gao.gov/products/gao-16-776r
Now we just wait for GSA-PBS to grant us the Lease for the now-defunct Federal Executive Institute-FEI.
Michael J. Erickson, USMC-Retired
President, LilyPad Airways, LLC




