1 
Submitted by Michael Shaw  
Required statement: This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the 
AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
On the island of Sulawesi in Indonesia, humans painted pigs on the walls of their cave dwellings some 51,200 
years ago.  Since that time, creativity and artwork has primarily been the domain of our species. With the 
development of generative artificial int elligence; music, visual art, writing, and a myriad of other acts of 
creativity can now be done with a few prompts from any neonate. Humanity stands now at the dawn of a new 
age in the creative world. Machine can create what once only man alone could make.  Lawmakers face the 
terrible burden of being reactionary agents in times of change. Until a problem has arisen to the appropriate 
level in the cultural zeitgeist, laws tend to fail to address the intricacy of any situation because lawmakers 
simply don’t kn ow the future. The need to catch up is immediate because the technology continues to develop, 
advance, and grow. The courts have decided on or been presented debate on a number of cases in front of them 
which use logic that I will discuss in this paper. Ho wever, this lacks the full endorsement and scrutiny of public 
stakeholders, instead relying solely on the bench’s discretion. An appropriate legal framework for how to 
address the traditional stance of intellectual property rights both in the training and in the generated product of 
this burgeoning technology has not yet been passed by any lawmakers.  
Thaler v. Vidal created the first legal decision in determining the copyright of arts created using artificial 
intelligence. Circuit Judge Stark wrote for the majority in deciding that the U.S. Patent Act applies only to the 
works and creations of a human actor, but failed to set a test as to the proportion of work a human must take for 
an artificial intelligence generated copyright to become valid under the Patent Act. Mr. Thaler initiated another 
important decision in Thaler v. Perlmutter. The Court furth er clarified that the Copyright Act of 1976 requires 
the creator to be human and rejects the application of works for hire status to an artificial intelligence’s 
copyright being transferable to the human that prompted it.  
The preclusion that artificial intelligence is ineligible to copyright its own work and thus unable to transfer 
those rights to any human actor is a short bridge in logic. Judge Howell specifically notes that, “By its plain 
text, the 1976 Act thus requires  a copyrightable work to have an originator with the capacity for intellectual, 
creative, or artistic labor. Must that originator be a human being to claim copyright protection? The answer is 
yes.”, and in the paragraph following further clarifies that bec ause of the lack of capacity in artificial 
intelligence, it would find no incentives and have need for the protection of copyright.  
Humans and other animals had to first go through eons of evolution and small steps to develop symbolic 
cognition. Artificial intelligence gets to skip some steps in this capacity though. Humans are able to take 
portions of the skill that we possess to util ize symbolism and train an artificial intelligence to perform similar 
creative tasks, with the fault that the artificial intelligence is not able to recognize the symbolic reasoning 
involved in human artistic expression yet. Due to Mr. Thaler’s filings, th e Court further discusses artificial 
intelligence as a tool, but does not establish a clear test as to the degree of input required from a human at 
generation or afterwards to be eligible for copyright.  
Currently artificial intelligence requires examples in order to learn how to create art in its various forms. In 
Andersen v. Stability AI Ltd and RIAA v. Suno, artists and other representatives from creative industries are 
asking the courts to decide on th e rights of those who had their work used for the training of artificial 
intelligence systems.  
Legislators from the United Nations and the United States are just beginning to delve into the question of the 
rights of creators and trainers and of the production of art made by artificial intelligence with frameworks and 
resolutions. In October of 2022,  Senator Thom Tillis of North Carolina and Senator Chris Coons of Delaware 
requested the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the U.S. Copyright Office to assemble a commission to 
make determinations as to the future of artificial intelligence and the resp ective intellectual properties their 
offices cover. In a similar vein in May of 2023, Representatives Scott Fitzgerald of Wisconsin, Darrell Issa of 
California, Ben Cline of Virginia, and Nathaniel Moran of Texas in their capacity as members of the House 
Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet wrote to Register Perlmutter of the 


2 
U.S. Copyright Office seeking clarity on the position and involvement of the Office in guidance and authority to 
address future issues of copyright and artificial intelligence.  
Letters of response were sent to Senators Tillis and Coons in December of 2022, and to the members of the 
House Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet in May of 2023. In these 
letters, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office  and the U.S. Copyright Office clarified that while they were not 
forming the requested commission, they are involved in the National Security Commission on Artificial 
Intelligence and are actively engaging stakeholders across the industry, public, and oth er governmental 
organizations in discussion and decisions that would provide guidance these matters.  Register Perlmutter 
reiterates this sentiment in her letter to the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and 
the Internet. A conc erning matter arises at the end of her letter though, unless specifically empowered by 
legislation, a regulatory agency such as the U.S. Copyright Office is not given powers to act as law enforcement 
or as the courts in pursuing violations that exist outsi de of their statutory authority.  
This paper is an examination of standing laws, case precedence, and models of intellectual property law as it 
relates to generative artificial intelligence. By addressing the concerns of companies, consumers, and 
programmers, I will lay out historical stan dings that are applicable to artificial intelligence and propose rights 
for the stakeholders interacting with this burgeoning technology. My goal is to propose frameworks for 
legislators that would outline how much human involvement is required and give ad equate protections to 
consumers and creators, while maintaining protections to continue encouraging further development and 
deployment in the public sphere.  
It is important to balance the ability of a company or anyone using artificial intelligence as an end user to retain 
some level of copyright -esque protection for the outcomes of their ideas. However, I would also caution 
legislators in favor of more rights  to those who have had to interact with a medium and created their works in 
the “old fashioned” way as the law has historically held. Full protection of works generated by artificial 
intelligence could create an imbalance between those who had to develop s kill and create in a physical medium 
against those who, once the artificial intelligence is trained, can merely enter a prompt and generate more works 
than a human artist could in a lifetime.  
My research is rooted in finding an equitable balance between the interests of creators and generators. I am 
examining the ways through which copyright is normally viable, i.e., creating works through physical mediums 
and non-generative artificial intellig ence digital creation or alteration, and seeking the ways to either adapt or 
create new pathways to viability.  
While the D.C. Circuit has offered a sentiment on works for hire and the idea that artificial intelligence couldn’t 
be treated like an employee granting copyright to its employer, I believe this may not be an entirely unviable 
avenue of exploration. It doe s open questions to timelines though. After all, what marks the birth or death of a 
program? Lifetime plus 70 years could be a very long time and stifling to competition and human ability. 
However, failing to grant any path to copyright would dissuade inve stment and development of these 
technologies as they would have little marketability for the works they create.  
Further, the question of compensation for works used in the training of artificial intelligence still needs to be 
examined. While the courts are opening books on cases which require it to be asked, I am also taking the 
question of fair use laws in copyrigh t to assist in determining if training artificial intelligence should be 
considered any different than training human artists. Exceptions exist within the Digital Millenium Copyright 
Act, the Lanham Act, Patent Act, and Copyright Act, for the fair use trai ning of humans in all of the intellectual 
properties covered by said acts.   
Generally, the creators whose work is used in the training of humans have received compensation in some other 
form: fame, accreditation, awards, or financial compensations. While the training of the computer may not 
warrant complete exception, depending on  methodology there may be other venues that could be appropriate 
and continue to encourage development of the technology without hampering the marketability of the 
compensated creators or any stakeholders right to contract.  
There currently stands no statutory law that directly answers the question of copyright in the matters of artificial 
intelligence’s inputs and productions. This is leading to issues within the market. From companies using the 
work of human artists without compensating them for the time and effort that went into their original 
productions, to companies telling end users that the creations coming out of their prompts to artificial 


3 
intelligence engines are fully copyrighted and protected in the generator’s ownership. None of the current case 
law has made it high enough in the court system to create a unified stance on either portion of this question. 
Without a solid answer, artists a nd generators are for lack of better terminology being robbed of the benefits that 
should be available to them under any other circumstance of the arts creation and usage.  
My research presents a balanced recommendations that legislators could fit into the next generation of artificial 
intelligence legislation to cure these ills. Currently passed laws have already addressed in legislation the right to 
data privacy and protect ion, to the copyright of the coding and artificial intelligence itself, and even touch upon 
development of new protocols and products to include in future generations of artificial intelligence. However, 
by failing to address inputs and products of artific ial intelligence there stands a gaping hole in protections and 
discussion. Filling this gap gives the opportunity for endorsement from the artistic community in the future 
development of generative artificial intelligences, and answers with certainty that they are protected and able to 
continue working without fear of losing their place in the marketplace both in terms of their unique skills and 
styles and in terms of their proper financial compensation. It would also be a more accurate representation of 
the voice of the people for the choice of protections in generated artworks to be coming from Congress than 
from decisions of the Courts.  
This will open a new field of artistic expression for those who previously lacked the skill with a brush or 
instrument to participate in the artistic community. It further allows for new developments such as the artificial 
intelligence based musical artist  Noonoori that was signed to a record contract with Warner Brother’s in 2023 to 
have certainty in their investment that they have met an appropriate guideline of human input in order to have a 
copyrightable product.  
While I find the efforts and work of the U.S. Copyright Office and other governmental and private stakeholders 
in this matter to be laudable and in good faith, the simple truth is that their guidance falls short in enforcement 
powers without Congressional backing, and in light of Loper Bright Enterprises v. Raimondo a future court 
could find reason to disagree with these organizations’ guidelines. Further, while the U.S. Copyright Office now 
has the Copyright Claims Board, it is both voluntary and has provi sions for trial in Federal court instead of and 
after a decision is issued by the Board. Making the Copyright Claims Board and the guidance of the U.S. 
Copyright Office useful and compelling in regard to artificial intelligence and copyright status, but st ill lacking 
the authority that the decisions of the courts or passage by lawmakers into statute would hold.  
At several points in this paper, I have and will again refer to synthetic intelligence. I use this term to describe an 
artificial intelligence that has advanced far enough to pass beyond programmed and imitation intelligence and 
has gained awareness and se ntience of itself. It is easier to point to science fiction for examples of artificial 
intelligence that has advanced into sentience in the way that humans recognize each other as sentient beings. 
From Asimov’s Three Laws of Robotics and Wall -E in the posi tive to neutral Androids of Phillip K. Dick to the 
destructive Matrix and Skynet, science fiction has long given the world images of machines that are as smart 
and capable of understanding the world and their place in it as their human creators. While we m ay be nearing 
the end of the viability of quoting Moore’s Law, technology advances as a breakneck pace and our 
understanding and ability to create new technologies continuously moves forward and builds upon itself. While 
the definition of what a synthetic intelligence will look like is beyond what I am able to delve into 
philosophically and technologically without derailing this paper, it is a real possibility that society may see the 
first of this new form of intelligence in the lifetime of children born t oday. Discussing and determining what 
protections human intellectual labors deserve in relation to a new technology that can outpace and replace said 
labors and how we define the boundaries of those protections will be important in understanding how to 
approach the question of rights for the intellectual labors of a synthetic intelligence when it arrives.  
My primary concern is to the flesh and blood human artists though. They need this issue addressed in 
order to fully enjoy the protections they are due for their intellectual labors. But, I’d be remiss to fail in keeping 
an eye on the horizon for issues we  may not have addressed properly yet.  
The Lanham Act, Pub. L. 79 -489. 
The Lanham Act is a staple of the American intellectual property law, representing the rules and 
guidelines for trademarks. While it lacks persuasiveness towards the actual discussion of artificial intelligence 
and art in this paper, it is of great value in understanding the structuring and writing in American intellectual 
property law, and thus grants insight upon writing a model act or amendment to standing acts on the matter.  


4 
The Copyright Act of 1976, Pub. L. 94 -553. 
I believe the U.S. Copyright Act of 1976 to be the persuasive law on the books for the matter. While I 
am dealing with artificial intelligence, the works being used as input and being generated as output are works of 
more traditional medias such as images  and music which are covered by the Copyright Act. In the case of 
inputs, it provides guidance upon what inputs programmers can use in training and provides guidelines to 
preventing infringement during the creation of new artificial intelligence engines. I n the case of outputs, it 
provides a goal post for generators to reach for as they attempt to determine what would be necessary for them 
to find copyright protection on works that began as prompts into a generative artificial intelligence.  
The Digital Millenium Copyright Act, Pub. L. 105 -304. 
Initially, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act may appear to be the governing ruleset for training and 
the output of artificial intelligence. However, I believe the Digital Millennium Copyright Act focuses upon the 
programming and coding of the artificial  intelligence but fails to address traditional media copyrights in terms 
of being created by artificial intelligence. Depending upon the methodology of the training, a Digital 
Millennium Copyright Act violation claim could be appropriate, but may fall upon  the same issues as Viacom 
International, Inc. v. YouTube in which a large -scale operation such as YouTube could make the claim that 
while they attempt to enforce existing copyright rules, they cannot always guarantee that the users of their 
database do no t manage to circumvent their protective measures and post copywritten works onto the database. 
Such usage should also be considered in terms of how an artist can study the works of others via platforms such 
as Pinterest or DeviantArt and learn to create si milarly styled works of their own.  
The U.S. Patent Act, 35 U.S.C.S. § 1 et seq.  
The U.S. Patent Act is the final primary body of American intellectual property law that I am using for 
examining structure and application. It presents useful understanding on the structure of our intellectual 
property laws and was a factor in another p ersuasive decision on the matter of artificial intelligence and the 
works it can create. Depending upon the method of programming for an artificial intelligence engine though, I 
believe this act may be persuasive for dealing with inputs taken from human ar tists. 
The Copyright Alternative in Small -Claims Enforcement Act of 2020, Pub. L. No. 116 –260, Div. Q, Title II, § 
212. 
Beginning on page 997 of the Consolidated Appropriates Act of 2021, one finds the Copyright 
Alternative in Small -Claims Enforcement Act of 2020. The primary importance of this act to my research is 
understanding the establishment of the U.S. Copyright Off ice’s Copyright Claims Board and the extent of 
enforcement power that was granted to this subsection of the Office. The Board was created as a voluntary 
alternative to relieve some of the burden upon Federal courts, as all copyright claims must go through Federal 
courts. It maintains a 3 -year statute of limitations in alignment with the U.S. Copyright Act, and generally has 
comparable powers to a Federal Court in conducting findings of fact and making determinations within their 
purview. However, the Copyri ght Claims Board does not preclude action in the Federal courts, and thus while it 
provides solid guidance, does not prevent any action taken within the court being appealed up to standard 
Courts. This particular addition shows a strong attempt at dealing with copyright claims and trying to alleviate 
the wait and ponderance in making decisions, but is ultimately leaves the board lacking in authority when 
compared to Federal Courts or Congress.  
Andersen v. Stability AI Ltd., 700 F. Supp. 3d 853 (2023).  
Representing the initial case for copyright infringement in the training of artificial intelligence, this case 
is a crucial starting point in understanding, in legal terms, the complaint of human artists in having their works 
used for the training of art generating artificial intelligence. It addresses the complaint that the artwork is being 
stored and compiled for the artificial intelligence to use in creating such works. A primary question that arises 
from this case is if the artwork is compiled and stor ed as digital copies of the copyrighted works, or if the work 
is studied, converted into an algorithmic format, and then the algorithm is used by the artificial intelligence. The 
first issue would represent clear violation of copyrighted materials, but the  later would require a new 
understanding on the question. If a work is converted into algorithm, is it in essence still the copyrighted 
picture, or is it more akin to how a human can remember seeing a Van Gogh and attempt to replicate his 
painting style wi th their own hands.  
Andy Warhol Found. for the Visual Arts, Inc. v. Goldsmith, 598 U.S. 508 (U.S. 2023).  


5 
While I may agree more with the dissent in this case, this represents the prevailing decision on the 
matter of transformative art. The decision focuses primarily upon that parody is a valid reason for copying but 
that satire must make a meaningful distinc tion from the original work and that the works cannot be in 
competition with one another for purpose such as the commercial space. The standard of review that is shown 
by the court in this instance is a rather high bar, both when looking at the purposes th rough a limited scope such 
as commercial meaning any attempt for money rather than looking to the distinct markets that would place 
different values upon the works and when performing an examination of the differences in artistic choices 
within a piece suc h as tone and composition. As the binding case law on the matter though, it gives a deeper 
understanding as to the definition of purpose for fair use and in examining how to address the level of 
transformation necessary for artwork to utilize pre -existing works and to draw comparison to the inputs and 
outputs of generative artificial intelligence.  
Andy Warhol Found. for the Visual Arts, Inc. v. Goldsmith, 598 U.S. 508 (U.S. 2023). (Kagan, dissenting).  
Justice Kagan’s argument against the precedent being set by the majority is not the binding precedence 
being set by this case. However, she provides an excellent dissection of issues for further examination of 
transformative art. Kagan sets out a number o f comparisons that would reasonably seem to also fail the test of 
transformative set by the majority that represent music, visual arts, and writing. Comparing the majority and 
dissenting opinions highlights to me the need for clarification by Congress and the difficulty of finding balance 
when addressing issues of opinion such as artistic tastes.  
Bleistein v. Donaldson Lithographing Co., 188 U.S. 239 (U.S. 1903).  
This case was an examination of copyright law in the commercial space and set the precedence that 
commercially created works are worthy of copyright protection. It is the source of a famous Oliver Wendell 
Holmes Jr. quote related to the nature of the judi cial branch and its responsibility to examine only matters of the 
law and to refrain from attempting to also be art critics. In settling the matter of copyrights for a pair of posters 
created for a circus, it was established that there was an enforceable c opyright that belonged to the lithographic 
company for said posters. It established that the rights for copyright were independent of the customers idea of 
the posters even where the images could be based on vague designs there is still a uniqueness in the  creation of 
said content that warrants protection in favor of the creator of the work as opposed to the idea. The case 
provided a heritage and provided clarity in understanding how delicate of a balance it can be for Courts to 
simultaneously perform their  duties as interpreters of law while also maintaining the public interest in matters 
that require specialized skills or are matters of taste.  
Burrow-Giles Lithographic Co. v. Sarony, 111 U.S. 53 (U.S. 1884).  
This particular case is roughly a century and a half old. I found the case enlightening despite this age though. 
Reading through the opinion of Justice Samuel Freeman Miller, I found myself able to see a clear picture being 
made of a balanced opinion on ho w to handle a technology that had only come into prominence and usage 
amongst the public within the lifetime of the parties involved in the case. Miller lays out that the act of choosing 
what Wilde wore, how he was posed, what angle to take the picture, an d every decision that occurred between 
the decision to take the photograph and when Mr. Sarony triggered the device to take said photograph. It gave 
me a clearer picture of how many decisions in any creative process could be a quantifier in discussing the 
uniqueness of a protected piece. It is important to these questions in that photography was a young technology 
that allowed the creation of a copyright protected piece of work at an expedited pace with less physical and 
temporal exertion on the artist than  had previously been required of artists.  
Doe v. Github, Inc., 672 F. Supp. 3d 837 (N.D. Cal. 2023).  
There was an order issued by Judge Tigar of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of 
California on September 27, 2024 showing there may be an appeal to the 9th Circuit coming for this case. 
During the dismissals in this case, it was shown that  there may be a need for copyright claims of infringement to 
include actual reproductions of copyrighted materials in order to prove that infringement occurred during the 
training process that I will discuss more fully later on in reference to ongoing case s such as Andersen and 
Tremblay. A major difference between this case and any other that I examined in relation to inputs for training 
of artificial intelligence is that Doe involves coding across the board, rather than a question of if art turned into 
code qualifies for copyright. It gives a clearer understanding of the requirements the Courts are looking for 
without the muddying factor of conversion.  


6 
Eldred v. Ashcroft, 537 U.S. 186 (U.S. 2003).  
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg focuses on issuance of previous limits and changes to the limits by other 
acts of Congress to justify the Constitutionality of extending copyright terms via the Copyright Term Extension 
Act. The first set of reasoning this case covers is that due to an increase in how long people are living gives 
good reason to also increase how long copyright protections la st. A second set of reasoning in this case 
examines the question of definition and determines that as long as a finite number is set Congress has performed 
its duty in setting a limit to the term of copyright. This provides clarity in relation to artificial intelligence as it 
grants Congress can set definitions and change them appropriately to mitigate new challenges as they arise and 
helps focus thinking as to the appropriateness of time when looking at human life expectancy and at how that is 
a very different question for the life expectancy and a non-living entity such as artificial intelligence. 
Feist Publ'ns, Inc. v. Rural Tel. Serv. Co., 499 U.S. 340 (U.S. 1991). 
The Court was face d with the question of facts in copyright and fair use. It clarified that the notion that 
just because someone put in time and effort into performing a task that could be copyrightable doe s not mean 
that the work itself is worthy of copyright. The establishment that raw da ta cannot be copyrighted in and of 
itself provides crucial insight when looking at inputs for artificial intelligence . The usage of data may not rise to 
copyright infringement based upon this case, but there are other factors such as the arrangement that needs to be 
examined when looki ng at the issue. It further assisted in granting insight to how the Courts examination the 
advancement of culture and science intent of copyright. 
Kelley v. Chicago Pa rk Dist., 635 F.3d 290 ( 7th Cir. 2011). 
Kelley takes a hard look at copyright when dealing with aspects outside of the artists control and if that 
unpredictability can be a disqualifying feature to copyright. The art at question was a garden specially designed 
and curated by the artist for the City of Chica go. This case makes limitations as to installation and site-based 
works of a rt and what quantifies as a visual wor k for the purposes of copyright protections. A portion of the 
ruling makes special highlights that as plants are living organisms that grow and change in ways beyond the 
artists control, copyright cannot give protection because the changes do not reflect the original vision of the 
artist or the work at the time of installation. It grants insight that chaotic elements beyond an artist’s control do 
have weight in determining qualification for protection. However, I find the notation of changes occurring after 
the work is created to be a differentiating factor when compared to generative artificial intelligence and the 
unpredictabilit y of what the algorithm will produce to any prompt given. I will address this further during my 
legal analysis, as there are a number of examples to be made in which currently protected artforms utilize 
chaotic and unpredictable elements in the process of initial creation of copyrightable works. 
Loper Bright Enters. v. Raimondo, 144 S. Ct. 2244 (U.S. 2024). 
A very recent landmark decision that overturned Che vron v. NRDC. This case had primary relevance to 
my research in establishing the limits of the agencies governing intellectual property law to make meaningful 
determinations in relation to their covered b odies of law. On one hand, the decision unbinds the Courts to hear 
additional input from experts outside of governmental agencies when making decisions in the case s before 
them. However, it also takes some authority awa y from these agencies which operate daily in their relevant 
fields as experts and at the direction of Congress and the executive branch. The freedom of the Court to operate 
independently and to perform full and thorough examinations is of utmos t importance, but only time will tell if 
this hurts the ability of the agencies to issue guidance effectively to the various industries they effect. 
Obodai v. Demand Media, Inc., 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 83109 (S.D.N. Y. 2012). 
The first application of stricter questions asked by Viacom in orde r for databases and social media 
platforms to protect themselves from copyright infringement liabilit y. It stands in stark contrast though, as it 
shows that a company can easily implement a guideline policy that not only keeps them free of liabilit y, but also 
actively functions both in terms of the tec hnology operating as desired and in encouraging users to be actively 
aware of the ir actions and the consequences. In studying this case, I particularly focused on the definitions 
being set by the court’s opinion.  
SocialMediaOne, Noonoouri: virtual influencer, digital model and international Instagram star, https://
socialmediaagency.one/noonoouri-virtual-influencer-digital-model-and-international-instagram-star/ 
(last visited 8/4/2024) 


7 
While not a scholarly work, this source has assisted as a matter of perspective. Noonoouri is a possible 
future of artificial intelligence in the creative space. The character is a conglomeration of her creators’ vision; 
software such as artificial intell igence to generate lyrics and replicate the full or partial body of the music in 
terms of vocals and instrumentals; computer -generated imagery and artificial intelligence to create videos and 
other visual representations of the “artist”; and the hard work of the creator and marketing team to create a 
seamless vision of essentially an artificial intelligence musician and media personality.  
Thaler v. Perlmutter, 687 F. Supp. 3d 140 (D.D.C. 2023).  
The current standing case on the subject of artificial intelligence and Copyright and representing the 
only current District ruling on the matter. In this case, Thaler attempted to copyright images created by his 
“Creativity Machine” and was denied on the  basis that copyright law currently requires a human creator. It 
shows that case law has given a history to the human requirement going back to 1884 with Burrow -Giles 
Lithographic Co. v. Sarony. Burrow -Giles established a photographer held rights to works created by the taking 
of a photograph, and the human element required in that act despite the use of a camera. The court left the same 
question as in Thaler v. Vidal of how much human interaction is required to make a work copyrightable and has 
left such d etermination to a future court or to lawmakers to provide clarity upon.  
Thaler v. Vidal, 43 F.4th 1207, 1213 (Fed. Cir. 2022).  
A similar attempt by Thaler to claim intellectual property rights on an artificial intelligence creation that 
would generate plans for patentable products. It met the same response to Perlmutter and Thaler v. Hirshfeld   
that a human is required, and was left with a similar question of the percentage of human interaction is required. 
It gives a depth of perception upon the rulings of another bench at a similar level to the Perlmutter argument, 
showing that the pervasive stance of the courts is likely to ru n along this line should such questions be risen 
before the Supreme Court.  
The Recording Industry Association of America v. Suno, Inc., 2024 U.S.D.Mass. (Filed June 2024).  
This case presents the music industry attempting to protect its creative rights and to establish their 
claims within the realm of art generated via artificial intelligence. As persuasive and binding as the rulings from 
this case will be upon final ruling,  I believe the case is most powerfully used in understanding what companies 
and industry stakeholders as a whole are seeking from artificial intelligence. In their claims, the Recording 
Industry Association of America discusses works already in progress wi thin their respective spheres to integrate 
and encourage the development of artificial intelligence within the music industry. I seek to find a balance 
between providing absolute protection of the individual artist, and also providing a measure of protecti on and 
incentive to the industry to continue investment and integration. Understanding the views of large companies 
within this sphere such as Sony, Capitol Records, and Warner Music provides a great deal of insight as to what 
they would seek from any new law dealing with creative works and artificial intelligence.  
Tremblay v. OpenAI, Inc., 2024 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 141362 (N.D. Cal. 2024).  
Tremblay represents the second major case that is currently ongoing which deals with artificial 
intelligence being trained with works that may have grounds for copyright infringement claims. In examining 
the filings of Tremblay in comparison with Andersen,  I was able to find a clearer picture as to the hurdles that 
are facing the creative community in dealing with artificial intelligence inputs. It highlights that the Courts may 
not have the ability to address concerns on this matter as statutory law has no t provided adequate protections, 
methods for discovery, or even definition of terms and limits for generative artificial intelligence training.  
Urantia Found. v. Maaherra, 114 F.3d 955 (9th Cir. 1997).  
In reviewing cases and articles related to artificial intelligence and copyright, this particular case seems to 
manage to be referenced by almost every Judge and author. I am unsure on how to best handle my writings on 
the matter. The case is a fairly comm on claim within the religious and spiritual spheres, a book was written and 
the claim of the faithful is that the work was supernaturally inspired and that humans merely heard and wrote 
out what they were told. Judge Mary Schroeder is extremely sensitive t o the beliefs of the parties and takes a 
measured approach to attempting to apply a standard review of the copyright claim.  
Viacom International, Inc. v. YouTube, Inc., 676 F.3d 19 (2nd Cir., 2012).  
Viacom V. YouTube outlined early metrics for future use as to what a properly monitored social media 
platform would need in order to meet reasonable defensibility in a claim of copyright violations. Viacom sued 
YouTube on the grounds that the then 5 -year-old company had billions of views daily and that users were 


8 
illegally uploading their protected materials to the platform. Initially, YouTube did seem to have some 
reasonable deniability. They did not actively direct the traffic on the site, instead using a simple algorithm that 
made recommendations for new videos based on the tags of your previously watched videos, and did not give 
active instruction or encouragement to upload videos that were in violation of copyright. However, it was 
uncovered that there were employees at the company who had knowledge of these vi olations and had 
communicated about it in their capacity as employees of YouTube but had failed to take any action to attempt to 
remove and discourage future violations by the violating users. There is naturally a discussion to be had about 
corporate ethic s and employee engagement in relation to this case as well. However, this case forced a 
conversation as to what a company should do as database or social media providers of this type of material.  
As this paper asks two separate but intertwined questions, I will ask the questions of rule in two parts. The first 
and easier to tackle is: are the works produced by artificial intelligence able to receive copyright protections 
under current law? The answ er is simply no. The statutory law of the matter is entirely silent. Congress hasn’t 
passed any laws that directly give the ability to artificial intelligence, and our laws have the justifiable history of 
being solely focused on a human creator for art. Th aler v. Perlmutter is the only case law directly addressing the 
matter as well, but the court’s opinion gives a great deal of insight into the history of the question of copyright 
case law and the requirement of a human author.  
In Urantia Found. v. Kristen Maaherra, the courts were presented with a question of copyright infringement for 
the digital redistribution of a work that the parties claimed were written by spiritual entities. Much like the 
authorship of works by artificial  intelligence, this presents the stated issue of creation by a non -human element. 
However, the court in Urantia granted the copyright because it noted the compilation of these writings by 
people created a unique and original work that was then valid for co pyright by the people. Perhaps a similar 
approach could be taken in certain instances of artificial intelligence creations, such as a compilation written 
work in which a certain portion of editing, revision, and human created writings were made by a human author 
after an artificial intelligence generated the initial tale.  
A similar discussion to arise from Perlmutter is that of the evolving technology being covered by the intent and 
readings of the U.S. Copyright Act. A specific reference to come from this case was that of Burrow -Giles 
Lithographic Co. v. Sarony. While a pa rticularly old piece of case law, it highlights a heritage to the question of 
new technologies and copyright. The decision of the court in Sarony showed that even though all a camera does 
is grab a representation of whatever it is pointed at, the photograp h is a unique and original work of human 
creativity and gives the author, not the device or the manufacturer, copyright claim to the works they took 
pictures of. It also shows another example of the human element receiving copyright for works they claim to  
have come through another source but that was manipulated enough or represents enough of the human 
creativity to be warranted protection.  
A certain degree of human manipulation beyond original creation is a warranted response to the new paradigm 
that artificial intelligence gives us in the world of intellectual property. The best material I have found for 
reviewing how to look at works gener ated with the usage of artificial intelligence is provided by the U.S. 
Copyright Office in the form of their denial of four works created with the aid or entirely through the usage of 
generative artificial intelligence. I have already discussed at length t he denial of A Recent Entrance to Paradise 
as it was the central focus of Thaler V. Perlmutter. The decision in Perlmutter largely reflects what was written 
in the denial letter. The denial does bring up a point that I would like to discuss a bit further t hough, in that it 
further highlights that the U.S. Copyright Office and the Copyright Board lack the persuasive power to be the 
final word on artificial intelligence and should be bolstered by the efforts of legislators via clarified statutory 
regulation a nd definition on the subject matter.  
According to the denial, Thaler made the claim that the U.S. Copyright Office should be granting copyright to 
artificial intelligence as this would best serve the public interest, and the Board replied, “The Board must apply 
the statute enacted by Congress ; it cannot second -guess whether a different statutory scheme would better 
promote the progress of science and useful arts.”  In this response, they specifically cite the decision of Eldred 
v.Ashcroft. Eldred outlines that Congress’s authority doesn’t int erfere with the First Amendment in this issue as
copyright protection for your expression is being offered additional protection against being stolen or
reproduced but consequently limits your rights when reproducing or repeating the expressions of others.  It
highlights that Congress is empowered to enact laws regarding those protections, may set appropriate timelines


9 
for the protections, and may create guidelines as to what is given protection or not and in what capacity those 
protections are enforced.   
This reads to me as the Board admitting that they are able to do only what they can within the limits of their 
statutory authority, and in fact needs permission from legislators in order to change or redetermine their stance 
on artificial intelligence and copyright. Congress has the ability to determine if policy should reflect artificial 
intelligence as a tool of the human expression and to what degree of manipulation the tool requires in order to 
give copyright protections to the works generated using art ificial intelligence, and only Congress can change the 
answer to the question as stands. The U.S. Copyright Office simply lacks the authority to set public policy at the 
same level as Congress.  
Within the currently established bounds, I would at a general look agree with the decision of the U.S. Copyright 
Office’s decision to revoke a portion of and alter the copyright of Zarya of the Dawn. As a general stance, the 
decision removes protection fro m any of the artwork inside of the panels that was generated using Midjourney’s 
artificial intelligence and solely grants copyright protections to Zarya of the Dawn’s entirely human created 
portions, which is to say the arrangement of the panels within the  comic book and the storyline that was written 
by Kristina Kashtanova.  
 However, I find the arguments made by Ms. Kashtanova’s legal representation to be compelling as to the nature 
of human interaction being required to warrant copyright. Kashtanova may have been working through prompts 
to generate the images, but she underw ent significant revisions and reworking of the artificial intelligence’s 
generated images in order to find specifically the image that suited her creative vision for the piece, her 
representation highlights the interaction with Kashtanova and the artificia l intelligence to achieve “Zarya 
Holding a Postcard”. While Kashtanova may have received a four image response to each prompt, she had to 
clarify and make creative decisions on if she wanted just hands holding the postcard, wanted Zarya’s face in the 
picture, what the background should contain, position within the frame, and a number of similar steps that while 
they may not have been direct manipulation, does show that Kashtanova had to perform executive functions in 
the generation of the final image that s he then manipulated from there to achieve her final first pane to the 
comic book. The U.S. Copyright Office dismisses such actions though, claiming instead that the prompts may 
constitute decisions on the part of Kashtanova, but the way the prompt is broke n into tokens that the artificial 
intelligence then uses in its algorithm represents an element of chaos in the process that the generator cannot 
predict or control that renders the other decisions that they made along the way invalid.  
I would argue though that such an element of unpredictability is valid within currently existing law and would 
make the comparison in line with a photojournalist or a movie director. In both cases, there is an element of 
chaos that is almost essential in t he creation of their final work. A photojournalist can make the executive 
decisions as to what events to attend, what location to be at when, angle and timing of their photograph, but 
when an event is occurring, they lack control over the participation of their actors, the setting around them, and 
the action in occurrence.  
There is a famous photograph named “Falling Man” that was taken by Richard Drew on the morning of 
September 11, 2001 that I would use in highlight of this example.  Drew admits in interview with CBS that he 
observes and photographs what is occurring around  him, and that he will just point and let the camera capture as 
many images as he can and will sort through them later. Drew has a collection of images taken on the morning 
of September 11th that feature numerous people in the act of jumping and falling ou t of the collapsing towers 
and in various positions during their fall, and the primary reason for the selection of “Falling Man” was that his 
camera happened to capture the man’s decent at a moment of complete vertical upside down from normal 
orientation. While the curation element is different, in that Drew is curating his selection from photographs of 
events that occurred in front of him and Kashtanova from a series of images created in response to prompts, the 
element of unpredictability remains the same . Had any portion of the series of decisions made by any numbers 
of parties in the events of September 11th been different, then Drew’s photograph wouldn’t have been taken, 
and similarly, if Kashtanova had used a different series of prompts, then the base image for “Zarya Holding a 
Postcard” wouldn’t have been generated.  
To my other comparison of a movie director, I believe the analogy is more reflective of how the unpredictability 
is resolved by the slow but significant curation of executive decisions between the initial decision to create a 
movie and the final outcome. F or instance, when casting, the film crew may have some direction and vision for 


10 
the role such as: the leading character is male, from 3rd century China, a farmer that was conscripted into 
service of the Liang army, and should have either a skill in acrobatics or the martial arts in order to be able to 
perform the scenes in the movie. In this particular instance, the film was produced and written by Jackie Chan, 
so they knew who the lead was going to be. However, had the role been written without Mr. Chan envisioning 
himself as the actor, or with another studio, auditions would have bee n conducted in order to find the best fit for 
the artist’s vision. With those directions, a casting call could have seen the directors picking between Jackie 
Chan, Jet Li, Donnie Yen, Chia -Hui Liu, or any number of less famous actors that fit the call of m ale, ethnically 
Chinese, and able to perform the martial arts and stunts required for the film.  
Even during filming, a director can expect and utilize the unpredictability of poor or little instruction to their 
actors and/or crew. Stanley Kubrick is famous for utilizing this chaos and the choices of his actors by 
purposefully reshooting scenes ad nauseum and giving vague to little guidance to the actors in order to see what 
they bring to his vision, perhaps especially for the scripted moment when Jack Nicholson’s character in The 
Shining ch ops through a door, the unscripted element is Nicholson placing his face in the hole left by the axe 
and yelling “Here’s Johnny!”.  
As decided in Perlmutter, works created without the human element lack the ability to be copyrighted, and that 
would be the separating factor between the examples I just gave and artwork created using artificial 
intelligence. The unpredictable and chaotic element is other humans and the events of real -world taking shape in 
ways that couldn’t have been decided by the photojournalist or movie director, where Kashtanova’s 
unpredictability is within how the prompt will be utilized by the artificial intelligence  to generate the images.  
In another portion of the U.S. Copyright Office’s response to Zarya of the Dawn, the Office references Feist 
Publications v. Rural Telephone Service as being the prevailing decision that they cannot grant copyright to 
works simply because time and effort w as spent in their creation if the original material wasn’t copyrightable in 
the first place. I disagree with this reading of the case in part. In the original case, the Court was dealing with a 
pair of phone companies and the compilation of phone numbers t hat they made available as a directory for their 
customers. It does hold up at a glance with the reasoning that currently nothing the artificial intelligence 
produces is available for copyright, and thus it would follow that anything derived from artificia l intelligence 
would also fail to be valid for copyright.  
However, there is a distinction to be made between looking at a compilation of data such as a phonebook, and 
the artwork generated using artificial intelligence. Justice Sandra Day O’Connor makes note throughout the 
decision of the Court that the purpose o f copyright is to protect the intellectual property rights of the artists and 
to encourage growth of science, technology, and culture as a whole. She even goes as far as to bring up that a 
science textbook is a compilation of facts and the facts may not be  copyrightable but there are copyright 
protections for the portions that are not solely facts and for the arrangement of the facts as presented in the 
book. By the read of encouraging the technology and culture, and that raw data can become copyrightable b y 
the creative expression and manipulation by the artist, I believe the issue requires further clarification by 
legislators.  
Unless the artificial intelligence is generating artwork by simply moving pieces of information from pixel into 
another to comprise the final generated piece in the manner of a collage, then this issue is on a more complex 
and almost incomparable scale tha n what was proposed in Fiest. Artificial intelligence does take data points 
from its programming in order to generate its final work, but these data points are not as simple as a phone 
number. They are the results of complex algorithms that are themselves the compilation of the training 
materials, the programming directions given by its creator, and finally the prompt tokens generated by the end 
user.  
Jason Allen’s “Théâtre D’opéra Spatial” was rejected due to public knowledge that the work was generated 
using artificial intelligence but Allen had failed to disclose the artificial intelligence use in his application. The 
letter contains the same precurs ory language describing artificial intelligence being ineligible for copyright and 
the requirements for human authorship that are seen in the other letters the U.S. Copyright Office offered in 
rejection of works containing elements generated with artificia l intelligence and which all is baked into the 
Perlmutter decision.  
Taking a look at the provided images of what was generated using Midjourney’s artificial intelligence and the 
final “Théâtre D’opéra Spatial”, it is clear that substantial changes were made to the image, but Mr. Allen 


11 
refused to offer explanation of the process and steps in between the two images when the Office inquired 
further. Without that explanation, I find myself in agreement with the board, but would like to take a moment to 
address how their rejections of severa l points in Mr. Allen’s argument relate to the discussions of this paper.  
Firstly, while the comparison can be drawn that the control of the prompts and the control of a garden do both 
rely on elements outside of the artists control, the Court in Kelley v. Chicago Park District takes time to lay out 
that the nature of plants is to grow, bloom, and decay, and discusses at length these elements that would occur 
after the art was made are the portion that is outside of the control of the artist and that because those elements 
mean the art cannot reasonably be guaranteed to remain in tact, meaning in the form the artist had designed, that 
protection would not be valid . The Court in Kelley does also note the human requirement in copyright, but as 
the U.S. Copyright Office establishes this earlier in the letter, I am assuming the focus of this reference was 
focused upon the elements beyond an artist’s control. The Boards rejection of Allen’s claim that denying works 
with artificial intelligence copyright protections leaves a hole that discourages end users from investing in the 
usage of the tool is in alignment with their previous decisions. As discussed earlier though, this may not be the 
correct method to handle the issue in order to best encourage growth within the industry, but it is not in the 
hands of the U.S. Copyright Office to ma ke the necessary change to the rules as it is beyond their delegated 
authority.  
Finally, I do agree with the stance of the U.S. Copyright Office that material generated by artificial intelligence 
should be disclosed and that this request is not burdensome. Artificial intelligence is not like any tool that artists 
have ever had for the  creation of copyrightable works. Despite my disagreement as to the nature of human 
manipulation both in terms of prompts and in terms of what is done to the image after the artificial intelligence 
generates it, it does allow for the bypassing of time, ski ll, and energy that a visual artist has to take time to 
develop. Noticing commonalities between Allen’s denial and Kashtanova’s denial, I would pose that the U.S. 
Copyright Office seems to be willing to dismiss any amount of work through the prompts and to kens at this 
time, and may be looking for an element of transformation between the images generated by artificial 
intelligence and the final product under human manipulation that may be unattainable after the decision of Andy 
Warhol Foundation for the Visu al Arts v. Goldsmith.  
There is one more denial from the U.S. Copyright Office’s Copyright Review Board that needs touched upon 
before I go into depth about the Warhol decision. A work by Ankit Sahni entitled “SURYAST”, a blended image 
of a sunset that Sahni took a picture of an d Vincent van Gogh’s The Starry Night, was rejected as, in the Board’s 
description, Sahni merely choose two images, one to be the base and one to be applied as an overlayed filter, 
and then chose the strength of the filter while the artificial intelligence  performed the work of combining his 
selected elements. He could always apply for copyright of the picture of the sunset that he took. The U.S. 
Copyright Office allows the use of Adobe, Photoshop, and other image altering software.  I don’t see a 
substantive difference between what Mr. Sahni did with artificial intelligence and the usage of photo editing 
software beyond his application of a work that has entered the public domain. Either way, I believe that it fails 
to be counted as transformative by the Wa rhol decision.  
The matter of Warhol sits almost perfectly as a bridge between my two major questions. However, I find myself 
in agreeance with Justice Kagan in her dissent that the bar has been placed almost arbitrarily and shows a 
deafness from the remainder of the Cour t as to the nature of creativity and free expression. The majority decided 
the most important question in the determination of fair use was to the intent of the work after creation, i.e. sell 
for profit, displayed in private or public, or provide commentar y on society.  
That answer to the question leaves me to pose a thought. The reading of the case seems to imply that Orange 
Prince was made as a commissioned work for Vanity Fair, thus made with the sole intent of commercial use. 
Instead, let’s say Warhol had made Orange Prince for his private collection, it remained in storage for the 
intervening 32 years until Prince’s death, and then appeared on the cover of “Condé Nast”. Would the alteration 
of the original usage have made a difference in this case? I believe Kagan is on the correct path in her 
assessment that mere commercial usage needs further digging and explanation before a judgement of the work 
can be properly determined. If this stance had been taken within Campbell, then the outcome would have found 
2 Live Crew i n violation of copyright as both songs from the case occupied a commercial space in the music 
industry. After all, anyone could remix the instrumentals, add a beat, and rewrite the lyrics in the same manor 
that the Majority dismissed Warhol’s work as being  so simply redone.  


12 
Kagan does an excellent job of summarizing that mere commercial interest is no longer a complete picture of 
value or expression in assessing objet d’art. In the instance of Warhol, the further question should have been 
asked as to the expressiveness of the  works and the appropriate marketability of the works in competition with 
one another. Orange Prince gives the impression of the largess of Prince’s persona, continues coloration and 
stylistic decisions similar Warhol’s other Orange works, and uses the lin ing and minimalism to reflect on fame 
and shift perspective on the subject of the work. While Goldsmith’s photograph utilizes black and white to 
maintain seriousness, head and eyes of the subject angled to imply thoughtfulness, and overall, the work focuse s 
on Prince as a person rather than an icon. Much in the same way that “Pretty Woman” and “Oh, Pretty Woman” 
convey different messages and occupy different regions within the commercial space, I believe Warhol and 
Goldsmith’s works attract similar markets in the focus of Prince but convey different impressions and will 
naturally draw different sectors within the marketplace.  
I would join both the majority and the dissent in referring to the closing thoughts of Justice Oliver Wendell 
Holmes Jr. on the matter of Bleistein v. Donaldson. Justice Holmes warned that those who focus on the study of 
the law are ill suited to assign va lue and importance to artwork. They will miss important pieces, elevate works 
in accordance with their tastes, and hamper the open and free development of culture and creativity. I find this 
relevant to both portions of my discussion. Judges and the U.S. C opyright Office would be beyond their 
assigned powers to grant copyright to works generated by artificial intelligence as they have no statute to base it 
upon, and are operating out of their depth in making decisions as to a precise amount of work required  in order 
to elevate a generated image into something that a human could effectively claim copyright upon.  
The second big question to arise from this paper is what the copyrights of original authors are when their work 
is used in the training of artificial intelligence. There appears to be a distinction to be made in this question that 
warrants a bit of discuss ion at first. The method of integrating art into the training of artificial intelligence does 
matter in making a determination. Is the image stored and referenced within the programming of the artificial 
intelligence, or is an algorithmic representation ge nerated that is then merely a portion of the coding and not 
identifiable as the original copyrighted work? In a form of layman’s, does the artificial intelligence have a 
picture that it looks at to borrow from, or is the artificial intelligence taught the techniques and styles of the 
picture that it then draws on from memory?  
This distinguishment could be an easy method for determining a comparison to human creativity and thus 
determining if the training methods for the artificial intelligence is infringing upon copyrights or if they are 
more akin to the fair use methodology fo r teaching an art class. Such distinction placed in law would grant a 
prima facie defense to artificial intelligence companies and end users that any infringement would exist in the 
database the artificial intelligence references for the creation of new wo rks rather than the artificial intelligence 
itself. In inverse, it would also then require the artificial intelligence programming to be available for review in 
an accusation of infringement. I make note here that it would need to be a new law or a new und erstanding of 
the paradigm as teaching a human and teaching an artificial intelligence may be debatably similar, but it is not 
an equivocal balancing. Firstly, an artificial intelligence is programmed or trained using an algorithmic model 
that while one ma y call it learning functions in a very different way than the human brain during the act of 
learning. Secondly, the purpose of fair use is expressly to promote the advancement of science and culture by 
not restricting the market, and while the exception wo uld advance science by allowing further development of 
artificial intelligence, it could also stifle and restrict creative works from humans that actually need the 
protection in order to benefit from their intellectual labors.  
Artificial intelligence that merely references an external database does grant an easier determination of fault that 
would fall in alignment with the precedence set up by Viacom International, Inc. v. YouTube, Inc.  and further 
clarified by Obodai v. Deman d Media, Inc.. These cases asked if a public media website that allows users to 
upload content are responsible for copyright infringement present on their domains. The determination was that 
such websites must take reasonable action on their own and invest igate/comply with cease -and-desist orders in 
order to be clear of infringement claims. If there is reasonable evidence that they either failed in such actions or 
had and hid knowledge of infringing content being uploaded, then they would be liable for the infringement in 
the same way as the person that had uploaded the content to their site. Viacom International, Inc. v. YouTube, 
Inc.  had the primary failing of human error. It wasn’t their monitoring policies or guidelines that ultimately 
gave YouTube liab ility against copyright claims. It was the employees that were careless about waiting a day or 


13 
two to take down a video, or knowing that a video was a violation of a major media outlet’s copyright and 
ignoring the matter. The major difference for Obodai v. Demand Media, Inc.  was a clearly laid out and 
established policy for addressing copyright cla ims including informing all users that uploaded to the site that the 
monitoring occurs and can result in termination for even a single complaint of copyright infringement.  
Straying momentarily from legal discussion to touch on the technology, if such an algorithm has not already 
been developed and implemented on a social media platform, I believe it would be reasonable to set up a system 
in which an artificial intelligence c ould handle claims of violation, monitor removal and usage, and report 
outcomes to the developer for review. It would be an unbiased monitoring algorithm that would be able to be 
more effective and efficient in keeping the database clear of violations beca use it can be programmed with 
precise guidelines and can learn to more accurately address the issue as time goes on.  
The road to determination if the work is located internally and not as a copyrighted replication of the art 
becomes much more twisting and unclear. In reviewing the various filings and decisions attached to Anderson v. 
Stability, Tremblay v. OpenAI, Doe v.  Github Inc., and Guild v. Open AI, it quickly becomes clear that the old 
understanding of looking for direct copying either in form and essential elements or for an actual copy of the 
work is not going to be workable going forwards with this artificial in telligence and the training models being 
designed for generating artworks.  
An important side note to anyone that may be considering attempting to file an infringement claim against 
anyone for any reason, you must register with the U.S. Copyright Office and receive approval of the registration 
before you can launch of suit for inf ringement. Also, always read the terms of service fully for any software or 
service you use in attachment to your art, in Anderson v. Stability a portion of the claim that involves believing 
that DeviantArt was in breach of their own terms by implementing an artificial intelligence program into its 
website was in fact covered by a notice in the terms of service that cautioned by agreeing to the terms that third 
parties have access and ability to copy any work displayed on the website and that DeviantArt can  reproduce 
and create derivative works of anything uploaded to the website . Further, DeviantArt claims, and Judge Orrick 
agreed, that despite implementation of an artificial intelligence on their platform, they are not directly 
responsible for its trainin g and are merely providing a database service which would have moved them back to a 
YouTube or Obodai scenario had the claim not been dismissed.  
A second decision by the District Court for the Northern District of California was reached on August 12, 2024, 
which provides further clarity on several of the issues that should be considered by lawmakers for the inputs of 
artificial intelligence. Firstl y, there was a claim towards induced infringement based on a statement from 
Stability’s CEO in which the belief was propagated that because the engine was trained on various artists works 
that one could recreate the training materials through the use of pr ompts within the system. If proof can be 
established that such reproductions could be manufactured using the artificial intelligence, then the argument for 
promoting infringement by their users would be substantiated and could require companies designing a rtificial 
intelligence in the future to establish safeguards in future models that would prevent them from reproducing, 
either directly or substantively, any of the materials used in its training.  
Secondly, Judge Orrick is allowing the training question to continue forwards. If there is no evidence that a 
direct copyrighted version of the works is in the coding of the artificial intelligence, or if Judge Orrick will 
allow an algorithmic representati on of styles to be counted towards a copyright claim remains to be seen. Both 
have major implications upon the future development of artificial intelligence and intellectual property law. 
While it may not matter what format of distribution is used to consi der a movie a protected movie, I believe that 
the essential substantive elements must still be identifiable for a claim to be valid. For instance, let us say that I 
study Enter the Dragon and Drunken Master in order to understand martial arts cinematograph y, and then write 
and direct Fearless. Despite all three films being martial arts films, and having some overlap in technique for 
choreography of the fight scenes (open palm strikes, various throws and locks), there would be little else in 
common between t he works I studied, my inputs, and the film I produced at the end.  
Judge Martinez -Olguin dismissed portions of claims in Tremblay v. OpenAI that could shape or be shaped by a 
decision after determination of the distinction of algorithms being covered or not. She dismissed claims to 
intentional removal or alteration of cop yright management information, vicarious copyright infringement, and 
distribution of works or copies all for the reason that substantive evidence was not shown that the artificial 
intelligence could effectively reproduce any of the copyrighted works that w ere claimed to be used in its 


14 
training or that the books being converted into algorithmic information was the same as taking a digital copy of 
the works in question.  
Between Tremblay and Andersen, there will be a precedence by the end of their cases and appeals as to the 
burden of evidence required to show similarity with copyrighted works from the outputs of artificial intelligence 
in claims of infringement.  
Throughout Andersen, Judge Orrick shows an appreciation for the need to take a new look at all laws and 
decisions that could be relevant to the use of copyrighted works or of infringement upon said works in the 
process of training artificial intelligence. I agree with this mindset due to the unique nature of artificial 
intelligence as a tool for the creation of artistic works and the way it is substantially different than any previous 
method of production in this field. Similarly, there is a sense in Anders en, Tremblay, and Guild that the parties 
claiming to have been victims of infringement are less concerned with any individual piece of their work being 
reproduced than they are about the ability of artificial intelligence to reproduce their individual styl es. It seems 
at its heart be a concern for a theft of the quintessence of their uniqueness.  
One possible venue for exploration could be the U.S. Patent Act for some artists, provided that an artist’s unique 
method for the creation of their work can pass the Mayo /Alice test as discussed in the U.S. Patent Office’s 
guidance on patent subject matte r eligibility.  It would need to be more than just the idea and form of their work 
though as that may not be substantive enough to rise to the level of patentability. This would also rely upon a 
decision from Andersen or a related case in the future as to whether or not an algorithmic representation of style 
is substantively the same as a digital representation for the purpose of an intellectual property claim of 
infringement. However, an argument could be raised that while persuasive, a decision from Ander sen could be 
seen as not binding to other forms of intellectual property as they are in fact separate sections of law, which 
again calls for legislators to address the issue in a more binding manner.  
There are those who simply won’t rise to the standard of a patent claim and it is possible that a copyright claim 
may also be found to be invalid dependent upon how the courts decide on the matter of format and the training 
of artificial intelligence.  
In looking at the concern of the parties in the previously mentioned set of cases  about the theft of the essence of 
their uniqueness, I would encourage lawmakers to look to the efforts being made in addressing digital replicas 
and similar name -image-likeness laws as they are focused similarly on the overarching concept of having what 
is unique and defining to an individual and offering protection against the theft and other forms of harm posed 
by artificial intelligence and replication of those qualities. The U.S. Copyright Office issued an in -depth report 
making recommendations on artificial intelligence and copyright focusing on digital replicas in July of 2024. 
Representative Junie Joseph of Colorado, and Senators John Cavanaugh and Eliot Bostar of Nebra ska have 
made efforts at the state level to address the rising concern about digital replication and Senator Christopher 
Coons of Delaware and Representative Maria Elvira Salazar of Florida have introduced the No Fakes Act of 
2024 in the House and Senate r espectively.  
Laws such as the No Fakes Act are  primarily focused on reproduction of a person’s image and vocal patterns in 
the effort to stem the creation of “deepfakes”. The heart of both the matter of deepfakes and claims of copyright 
infringement during the training of artificial intelligence are t he same, having one’s personage stolen or 
misrepresented without any means of recourse. The U.S. Copyright Office’s Report takes time to highlight that 
there are a number of faults in current efforts from being too narrowly tailored and failing to fit ever y venue of 
intellectual property law to pre -emption issues due to difference in various state and federal laws.  
Within this paper, I have taken a dive through the current stance being taken by the courts and the historic 
beliefs on the issue of copyright and artificial intelligence. I have shown that our species has been the sole 
creator of imaginative works and thu s the sole recipient worthy of protection to their rights as creators. I have 
found that the method of programming can be seen as a division between that protection and free use. The case 
law and pre -existing statutes upon the rights of human creators has given them a very wide array of claims to 
protection and usage. However, without clear legislation that establishes in plain language the rights of creators 
and the rights for usage of generated works, the risk to the public of either having the fruits of the intellectual 
labor stolen or of being sold rights that simply don’t exist.  
I am proposing some guidelines for the creation of new legislation which would fill the void of having not yet 
declared that our species as sole beneficiary and why. I would recommend following the historic stance of 


15 
humans are the only ones who require the protection of copyrights. Firstly, it would need to clearly state that no 
matter what methodology is used for training the artificial intelligence, all human created art has the benefit of 
copyright for the training  of artificial intelligence and should outline the pathway for artists to properly exercise 
that claim to address the work being used in the training of artificial intelligence models.. Works that have 
entered public domain or those generated by another ar tificial intelligence would be of fair use for companies to 
use, but otherwise they must acquire rights or permissions as appropriate to each individual piece of art. 
Secondly, a final and appropriate determination in following with previous alterations al lowed without violation 
of copyright to create a new calculation for a requirement of human alteration in digitally generated works to 
allow for a protective space to be determined for those who would use this new medium to generate art. There is 
a no hard and fast rule as to the amount of alteration needed to elevate a work to be used outside of the original 
owner’s copyright. Instead, determination is made on a case -by-case basis to find whether infringement was 
intentional, meaningful, and substantive. C reating a hard rule on amount of change needed for an artificial 
intelligence to go from unprotected and machine generated to being a tool of assistance in creating 
copyrightable works would create motivation for industry stakeholders to continue and expan d investment. As I 
have clarified previously in reviewing caselaw on the matter, creative industries and their representatives want 
to have artificial intelligence as a tool in their markets and are open to a dialogue about how to make it viable 
and functi onal. 
A number of times during my research, I came across a quote used from a review of the American Law 
Institute’s 2020 draft for a Restatement of the Law, Copyright by Justin Hughes. The quote is used dismissively 
of artificial intelligence and the discussion  of copyrights for works generated using artificial intelligence, 
remarking that, “The day sentient refugees from some intergalactic war arrive on Earth and are granted asylum 
in Iceland, copyright law will be the least of our problems.”  This statement so unds like a wave of the hand, and 
the quote is used as if to say to the reader, “It is a silly flight of fancy to think about law for science fiction.” 
However, Mr. Hughes continues from his statement on intergalactic refugees to point out that after 
nationalization was settled, certainly the aliens would be folded into our copyright laws. I believe Mr. Hughes’ 
intent in this statement was in alignment with the remainder of the statement. It is simply unnecessary to fully 
address the rights of any sentient being besides humans in the matter of intellectual property because humanity 
hasn’t encountered a sentient being that wasn’t one of us. These conversations are important as the technology 
continues to progress. In examining the difference in need and usage  of protections to their intellectual labors 
between humans and artificial intelligence, we also are forced to discuss what the protection means and 
establish guidelines for determining whom those worthies of protection are. As the computing power and abil ity 
to learn moves artificial intelligence forwards towards actual thought and imagination, we will have an 
understanding already established and can be adapted to an appropriate framework for a synthetic intelligence’s 
rights. 
A final thought I would direct towards the developers of future artificial intelligence and those who handle the 
training of those next generations. While the legal question towards the usage of copyrighted works may indeed 
prove to be allowed due to the l aw and the technology being out of synch with one another, there is a moral 
question to ask as to if the usage of these works should really be allowed. I would instead encourage those that 
train artificial intelligence to perhaps take a leaf from the music  industry and treat the works in your training as 
though you were sampling music for your next track. There is an analogy to be drawn as both acts use portions 
of a larger copyrighted work to make something new for the industry. Compensation can be differe nt than using 
the whole work, but you will have then shown respect to the efforts and process that the artists and creatives 
whose work you are borrowing from deserve.   


