From: M. E.
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Date:Attachments:[External] GSA, DOE, NREL, USDOT / FAA; DOS: Federal Executive Institute-FEI Property Development ?
Thursday, February 27, 2025 11:15:55 AM
Dear GSA and Public Buildings Service-PBS,
I noted the email sent by Assistant Commissioner for Facilities Management Andrew Heller, that GSA’s  
Public Buildings Service-PBS is looking to eliminate 3,557 positions through a nonvoluntary Reduction  
in Force (RIF) — about 63% of its total workforce.  Mr. Heller indicated that PBS is pursuing
“meaningful consolidation of space to occur and require less support,” which allows for consideration of  
reduced service levels for owned buildings.  
That will help GSA comply with Presidential Order:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/02/implementing-the-presidents-
department-of-government-efficiency-cost-efficiency-initiative/
The executive order gives GSA 60 days to submit your plan to the Office of Management on the
disposal of government-owned real estate “which has been deemed by the agency as no longer needed.”
PBS Commissioner Michael Peters has indicated that GSA is looking to cut its total real estate portfolio
by 50%.   Mr. Heller indicated that  “GSA will introduce new technology, including AI, to improve
efficiencies in the lease, acquisition and project management functions.”
Time is running out for GSA-PBS to comply with the Executive Order as pertains to Property Disposal
or Lease Termination Planning.
My team is ready to assume the Lease on the FEI Property in Charlottesville, VA...and will use it to
create the AI Centers of Excellence-COE that Mr. Heller needs to gain GSA efficiencies. I have alreadycontacted the University of Virginia (AI divisions) and invited them to collaborate with us on our Planfor FEI Campus.
I invite GSA-PBS, as well as the other Federal Agencies involved in Energy, Aviation, AI, etc. to join
with my team in Public-Private Partnership to re-purpose the FEI Campus for our AI-COEs.
  I have
already reached out directly and indirectly to the Agencies such as: OSTP; State Dept; FAA; Dept ofEnergy; INL; NREL; and US Military...allowing them to hear of our vision for FEI Campus.
  I have also
reached out to the various (huge) IT & Investment Groups that were noted in the news as investing$Billions in USA-based AI-Data Centers.
GSA has used Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs) in the past...most notably when you wanted to achieve
Federal Energy Management goals.
  We are not proposing anything new to you...read the GAO report:
https://www.gao.gov/products/gao-16-776r
Now we just wait for GSA-PBS to grant us the Lease for the now-defunct Federal
Executive Institute-FEI.


Michael J. Erickson, USMC-Retired  
President, LilyPad Airways, LLC 
On Wed, Feb 19, 2025 at 10:32  AM M. E. 
from: M. E. 
to:
cc:
subject: GSA, DOE, NREL, USDOT / FAA; DOS: Federal Executive Institute-FEI Property Development
?
Dear Ms. Nicole and GSA,
As you now know...the Federal Executive Institute-FEI is an executive and management
development and training center for governmental leaders located on a 14-acre campus neardowntown Charlottesville, Virginia, less than a mile from the University of Virginia (Address:1301 Emmet St N, Charlottesville, VA 22903).
  Because of its close proximity to University of
Virginia...it might be very convenient for any of my below COE concepts, if we linked our newFEI campus activities to the University.
  For background, please see attached document and:
https://www.opm.gov/services-for-agencies/center-for-leadership-development/federal-
executive-institute/
https://www.gsa.gov/real-estate/historic-preservation/explore-historic-buildings/find-a-
building/federal-executive-institute-charlottesville-va
The FEI was historically open to career SES, Senior Level (SL), Scientific and Professional (ST),and SES Equivalent (e.g., under Title 10, Title 38, etc.) members from across FederalGovernment.
In light of President Trump's Executive Order-EO on Monday, which calls for the Elimination of
the (GSA-maintained) Federal Executive Institute-FEI in Charlottesville, VA...
https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/02/eliminating-the-federal-
executive-institute/
As noted in my previous correspondences to you, we recognize GSA efforts to comply with


President Trump's requirement to close the Federal Executive Institute-FEI in Charlottesville, VA.
We also understand that normally, when GSA gives up a property under your control, that other
Federal Agencies might have opportunity to submit their Proposals for the property, before it isreleased upon the public.
 
 One of your GSA-FAS senior managers within the  Travel, Transportation, & Logistics
Division...and who is currently one of the leaders in the  GSA Fleet Vehicle
Management  program...is a very close personal friend of mine.
I understand that he accepted GSA's 'buyout' and is in process of retiring/leaving the GSA as aresult of your planned downsizing of that Division.
As soon as he is free from GSA direct employment, we will offer him a position with ourcompany leading our company's AI-Fleet Vehicle Management Technology Center of Excellence-COE activities...when it gets underway.
We are also offering to buy all of the GSA Fleet Vehicle Management pieces that you and GSAdecides to 'Privatize'.
We will then begin introducing our concepts for FedRAMP-compliant, and CyberSecureArtificial Intelligence-AI into how the nation and Federal Agencies operates Fleet VehicleTeleMatics; Automated Vehicles; 'Smart Roadways'; Intelligent Transportation; etc.(https://www.gsa.gov/technology/government-it-initiatives/artificial-intelligence/ai-guidance-
and-resources ).
We will collaborate with Federal Fleet Service Representatives across America(https://www.gsa.gov/buy-through-us/products-and-services/transportation-and-logistics-
services/fleet-management/vehicle-leasing/find-a-fleet-service-representative )
We will propose our own Technology Transfer (T2) Plan(https://www.transportation.gov/research-and-technology/technology-transfer
)
We will invite David Wollman's NIST Smart Connected Systems Division to review our'Smart Transportation' & TeleMatics recommendations ( https://www.nist.gov/programs-
projects/nist-automated-vehicles-program ).
We will apply for DOT SMART Grants (https://www.transportation.gov/grants/SMART)
(https://www.transportation.gov/policy/OST-R/grants ).
We will then invite Gregg Fleming's VOLPE, and Brian Cronin's DOT-ITS to validate ourconcepts. We anticipate needing the support of some other (former) GSA experts that mayhave also accepted the 'buyout'.
  Thus, we may be able to provide a 'softer-landing' for some
of those personnel that you cull from GSA employment.
THUS, WE NEED THE COMBINED WILL OF SEVERAL BRANCHES OF FEDERALGOVT AS WELL AS DOD / MILITARY ON THIS.
Our team feels that we have a very viable and productive strategy for repurposing the FEI Institute
property, that helps GSA meets its Property needs, as well as many of the Federal Agencies tomeet their AI & Aviation Technology needs...while still helping the US Taxpayers to save GovtBudget money.
We propose that the FEI campus will be converted via Public-Private Partnership (PPP) (or sold to
us directly) and that the Campus be repurposed as a multi-sector Technology Centers ofExcellence-COE:
Sector-1 will be devoted to Artificial Intelligence-AI Technology Center:   The
Objectives of this AI Technology COE:
With funding Grant from President's OSTP; DOD; Natl Science Foundation-NSF;State Dept (Tech. Division); Natl Endowment For The Humanities; etc.


Focus to include:
Of particular importance is the investment in the development of assurance and
trust in AI systems. Research in these areas is essential for using AI in all fields,but it is particularly important in systems that involve safety or applications inwhich AI decisions affect individuals, groups, communities, and theenvironment. Most AI R&D thus far has focused on the advancement of AI forindividual tasks. Additional work is needed to solve increasingly difficultscience and technology challenges covering multiple domains and applications,moving toward the vision of general-purpose AI. AI R&D increasingly attemptsto consider how various areas of AI work can fit together into an integratedsystem.
 
Develop foundation models that are trained on large amounts of unlabeled data,usually using self-supervised learning, and can be adapted to many applicationdomains such as law, healthcare, and science. Innovations continue to advancethe frontiers of what foundation models can do on language and image tasks.Familiar examples of large pretrained language models include BERT(Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers), GPT-4(Generative Pre-trained Transformer), and other AI systems with skills thatmight begin to resemble intelligence within certain domains. Additional R&Dis necessary to minimize unwanted fabrications and harmful biases ingenerative AI.
Conduct research to enhance the validity and reliability as well as security andresilience of these large models, especially in response to adversarial attacks.Further research is also needed to develop techniques for explaining andinterpreting model outputs. Additional work is needed to address privacyconcerns related to training models on such large corpuses of data. Finally,appropriate safeguards will need to be conceptualized and designed into thesesystems.
Developing AI Systems and Simulations Across Real and Virtual Environments
Enhancing the Perceptual Capabilities of AI Systems
Developing More Capable and Reliable Robots
Advancing Hardware for Improved AI
Creating AI for Improved Hardware
Embracing Sustainable AI and Computing Systems
Develop Effective Methods for Human-AI Collaboration
Seeking Improved Models and Metrics of Performance
Cultivating Trust in Human-AI Interactions
Pursuing Greater Understanding of Human-AI Systems
Developing New Paradigms for AI Interactions and Collaborations
Understand and Address the Ethical, Legal, and Societal Implications of AI
Ensure the Safety and Security of AI Systems
Develop Shared Public Datasets and Environments for AI Training and Testing
Measure and Evaluate AI Systems through Standards and  Benchmarks
Better Understand the National AI R&D Workforce Needs
Expand Public-Private Partnerships to Accelerate Advances in AI
Establish a Principled and Coordinated Approach to International Collaborationin AI Research
Evaluating Federal Agencies’ Implementation of the NAIIA and Strategic Plan
AI Data Centers & AI-Enabled Edge Data Centers, Energized by AI-EnabledSmart DERs & MicroGrid Energy Infrastructure
Although President Trump and his fellow Billionaires are planning tobuild $500-Billion AI-Data Centers in Texas, Arizona, and other SW-area locations...we here in Northern Virginia need to convert our DataCenters towards AI-Capability also.
  Further, we need to Design-Build
Distributed Energy-DERs to energize their infrastructure. That means we


need Community-based (Campus) Smart MicroGrids, Battery Energy
Storage-BESS; Grid-Integrated Smart Buildings-GEBs; and Small
Modular (Nuclear) Reactors-SMRs here in Northern Virginia.
NOTE:   Loudoun County is reporting that they have an additional 117
data centers in the pipeline -- on top of the 199 data centers they already
have on the ground. That will give Loudon County at least 316-Data
Centers in one county.   The land value of the Loudoun data centers
reportedly surged by $19 billion -- a 78 percent increase over last year.  The
rapid growth in data centers has led the Virginia General Assembly to passregulations on new data centers requiring extra local approval and ensuringplacement is not too close to schools or residential housing.
  Dominion Energy
Virginia has asked for an additional $900-Million in Ratepayer Money just tocontinue their Wind Farm boondoggle...and Virginia's feckless FCC is going togrant it to them.
Investigations on AI Data Center Vendor progress (e.g.  McKinsey
Transformation, ABBYY, GBTEC, Chazey Partners, PRIME BPM,SS&C Blue Prism, Celonis, mindzie and Skan AI).
 We see AI being particularly useful for Agencies & Business Sectors such as:
Veterans Admin-VA:
AI-Enabled TeleMedicine;  
AI-Enabled Privatization of VA's Claims Processing;  
AI-Enabled Data Science as a Service (DSAAS)
(We should contact VA's C.O. (Michael Berberich) for this.  We
would need to compete against COFORMA Partners for this.)
NIH:   AI-Enabled TeleMedicine;  
Agentic AI For Healthcare (NIH-ARPASolicitation
 75N99225RFI106).
 AI-driven Food Extraction:   aid in ration development, manage
macro/micronutrient content, and analyze sensory and field test andevaluation data. The goal is to improve data analysis, so thatproducts meet their specific nutritional needs.
We could invite UC-Davis or other Hospital to collaborate with uson this.
AI-Enabled Hospital & Private Consumer TeleMedicine;
AI-enabled Sports & Fitness; Event Analysis
AI Fitness Apps
Data Privacy Consultations
Immersive VR & AR Workouts
Smart Home Gyms; Smart Mirrors;  (we would need to compete
against Apple; Tonal; Tempo Studio; JRNY App; Future; andPeloton systems
Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA): AI-Tools:   a robust AI tool that will initially
serve one bureau, processing approximately 2,600 actions per year but mustbe capable of scaling to accommodate over 20,000 actions. The tool shouldbe designed to facilitate the creation of essential pre-solicitation documents,including Statements of Work (SOWs), Independent Government Estimates(IGEs), Market Research Reports (MRRs), Acquisition Plans (APs), andrelated documentation.
DOD;  
USAF ADVANA Program:   $15-Billion Chief Digital and Artificial
Intelligence Office (CDAO), Advana Program has a requirement forAdvancing Artificial Intelligence Multiple Award Contract(AAMAC).
  (We would need to compete against Booz-Allen for this)
AI-Enabled Soldier Field Tactical Body Vital-Sign Monitoring


(Apparel-woven Sensors; Smart Clothing).
AI-based Military Logistics & Supply Chain Management;  
Information Extraction from scientific documents
AI-based Contract Fraud Detection;  
Defense Logistics Agency-DLA:   Smart (Intelligent) Inventory
Forecaster: This AI solution predicts inventory needs with pinpoint
accuracy, cutting waste and boosting profitability. Perfect for e-commerce and retail brands scaling fast.
DOE & Energy Sector:   AI-enabled Community-based Smart MicroGrids
Infra, BESS Batteries and SMR Reactors & Sim Reactors;
AI-enabled Data Centers:   This is useful for President Trump's $500-Billion
in AI Data Centers planned.
AI-enabled Air Traffic Management (including UAS-Drones & eVTOL) andAirspace Management for DOT & FAA;
  (This could have prevented the
Reagan Airport crash)
Digitized Ships Registry (e.g. State Dept);
AI-Enabled File & Document Manager
AI-enabled External Revenue Service-ERS (Tariff & Trade Collections);  
Tariff enforcement is generally the province of U.S. Customs andBorder Protection (CBP), which falls under the Department ofHomeland Security (DHS). However, they will be preoccupied byDeportation of Illegal Aliens.
  Thus, we might find a niche in
supporting AI-Enabled State Dept. or privatized ERS provider togather these Tariffs.
CBP’s internal guidance requires it to refer any possible criminalviolation to the relevant U.S. Attorney’s Office for furtherinvestigation and possible prosecution, with no requirement of noticeto the alleged offender. Beyond this, the Disruptive TechnologyStrike Force (DISTECH), a joint venture that was created inFebruary 2023 to prevent the proliferation and illegal acquisition ofsensitive technologies by nation-state adversaries, can quickly berepurposed for tariff enforcement. Active in more than 10 major U.S.cities, DISTECH combines the resources and personnel of DHS, theFederal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the Department ofCommerce (DOC) with federal prosecutors to investigate andprosecute sanctions evasion and export control cases.
 
AI-Enabled Vehicle Management
GSA's $40M Natl Capital Smart (IoT) Buildings Contract
AI-Enabled Smart Home Management
AI-enabled Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs) for Patenting & Watermarking; AI-Logo Maker.
 We should contact USPTO's Whitney Lee for this since they
have upcoming $12M Solicitation for it; we would need to compete againstClarivate Analytics for this).
  (these could be a new lines of business for our colleague...Ola
Para's...graphic arts help)
AI-enabled CryptoCurrency;
AI-Powered Customer Persona Builder: No more guessing games. This AItool analyzes your customer data to create hyper-detailed, actionablepersonas in seconds
AI-powered Website Makeovers
AI-Enabled Innovation Hub Content Creation
AI-Based ChatBot for Business
AI-driven Financial Portfolio Management  (this could be a new line of
business we sell to our colleague...Robb Mitchell's...financial managementcompany)


AI-Marketing Agency (we could start our own new Marketing Strategy
Startup & Consultation; AI-Advertising Software);  AI Presentation
Generator: Need an investor deck or killer pitch? This AI builds stunning,
data-backed presentations in minutes – just upload your data and watch itwork.
AI-Personalized Shopping Experience for Customers at Department Storesand Malls;
AI-enabled Checkout & Frictionless Customer Experience;  
Enhanced Security & Loss Protection (Shoplifters);  
Omni-Channel Integration & Seamless Shopping Journeys;  
Dynamic Pricing & Personalized Offers / Discounts
Retail Customer Insights & Consumer Behavior Analysis
Enhanced Customer Service
Hyper-Localized AI Ads: Why target broad demographics when this AIcrafts ad copy tailored to micro-audiences based on real-time trends andregional insights? Say hello to record-breaking ROI.
AI Video Editor on Demand: Editing. This AI tool creates pro-level videosfrom raw footage – with motion graphics, transitions, and effects – all in afraction of the time.
AI-enabled Online Educational Platforms; use of Synthetic Data for Training;
Perform data collection and research that supports strategic humancapital initiatives, to include but not limited to: strategic humanresources management; talent management; employee engagement;human capital analytics; diversity, equity, inclusion, andaccessibility; sustainability; finance; business operations; digitaltransformation; cybersecurity; change management; data literacy;talent development; strategic recruitment; employee benefits andcompensation; labor and employee relations; employee retention;upskilling and reskilling leaders and employees; improving overallculture and attitudes; and innovation to include artificialintelligence.
  This data and research must support the delivery of
leadership development opportunities and human capital topics viaasynchronous and synchronous delivery.
AI-enabled (digital) Concierge for Hotels & businesses) Service
AI-enabled Smart Agriculture solutions;
AI-enabled Business Startup Consulting:
Business Modeling; Competitive Data Search;
Brainstorm to Launch: 6 Simple Steps1. Validate Your AI Vision:2. Prototype & Refine:3. Build Your MVP:
  No need for extensive coding knowledge!
Embrace the power of no-code platforms like Bubble and RapidAPIto construct your Minimum Viable Product (MVP). An MVP shouldfocus on core features that deliver your AI solution's valueproposition. Start small, test its effectiveness, and gather valuableuser data before expanding.4. Prepare for Liftoff:While your app takes flight, build anticipation. Create social mediaaccounts, develop engaging content, and generate buzz around yourAI-powered offering. This pre-launch phase is crucial for attractingearly adopters and building excitement for your official debut.5. Launch & Take Flight:It's launch day! Ensure your landing page, demo video, and sign-upprocess are polished and persuasive. Consider platforms like ProductHunt to gain valuable exposure and attract your first wave of users.


Remember, launching is just the beginning - continuous
improvement and user feedback are key to sustained success.
6. Grow Organically:
AI Lead Generation & Engagement;
Sector-2 will be devoted to AI-Enabled Advanced Air Mobility-AAM TechnologiesCenter
Funding Grant from DOT / FAA; NASA-UTM; VOLPE; etc.
Focus to include:
National Airspace System-NAS AI-Enabled Airspace Modernization:
Unmanned Aerial Systems-UAS (Drones);
eVTOL Passenger Air Transport
Update FAA's Roadmap for Artificial Intelligence Safety Assurance
Sector-3 will be devoted to AI-Enabled Distributed Energy-DERs Technologies Center
Funding Grant from NREL; Dept. of Energy-DOE, Office of Technology Transitions


(see: https://www.connectwerx.org/portfolio-items/ppo-cwx-010-gdo-accelerating-
interconnection-through-ai-ai4ax/ )
Focus to include:  
Campus Smart MicroGrid
Campus Battery Energy Storage-BESS
Campus-wide Grid Integrated Efficient (Smart) Buildings-GEBs
Campus Virtual Power Plant (VPP) &/or Small Modular (Nuclear) Reactor
(SMR)
Develop partnerships between software developers, grid operators  -- including
Regional Transmission Operators and Power Marketing Administrations -- andenergy project developers “to modernize the interconnection applicationprocess and significantly reduce the time required to review, approve, andcommission new generation interconnections across the country.
Optimize the placement of DERS by analyzing data on the location of DERs,the load profile of the grid and the weather forecast.
Control DERs in real time to optimize their operation and to ensure they areworking in harmony with the grid.
Manage demand for electricity by incentivizing consumers to reduce theirenergy use during peak demand times.
Data collection and integration
AI algorithm selection
Load forecasting
DER optimization
Demand response management: Implement AI systems that adjust energyconsumption in response to signals from the grid or market conditions.This can involve incentivizing users to shift their usage to off-peakhours.
 
Sector-4 will be devoted to AI-Enabled Fleet Vehicle TeleMatics Technologies Center
Funding Grant from USDOT; Virginia DOT; FTA; GSA-EVSE Program Office;ARPA-I; etc.
GSA-FAS needs to sell off their bloated Federal Fleet Vehicle Management programand down-size that entire division.
  Please take a hard look at that GSA business unit.
It is vital that the U.S. Federal Vehicle Fleet nationwide should be inculcated withArtificial Intelligence-AI throughout its network and Vehicle Management, as well asits Vehicle TeleMatics.
GSA will be forced to downsize, which will likely require GSA to sell off most of theFederal Vehicle Fleet Management business unit. 
 
Our Team desires to buy the entire GSA Fleet Management Division...and relocate itdown to Charlottesville, VA so that we can integrate AI-technologies into the GSAVehicle network.If GSA will give us the FEI Institute campus, then we will be able to convincesomeone like Enterprise Vehicle Leasing, or HERTZ Leasing, to join with us forpurchase of the GSA Fleet Management Division.
FedRAMP & CyberSecurity Compliance
Safe and Responsible Use of Artificial Intelligence in Transportation
https://www.transportation.gov/sites/dot.gov/files/2024-12/ARPA-
I%20Summary%20Report%20on%20AI%20RFI%202024-
12%20%28Final%29_1.pdf
wide variety of areas broadly defined as asset management with computervision, AI assurance, logistics, planning, project delivery, safety, accessibility,automated vehicles, as well as potential cybersecurity advancements.Improvements in aviation safety and efficiency were two other areas of possibleprogress mentioned by respondents.
Increased use of digital twins to simulate various aspects of transportation such
as traffic, roadway structures, pedestrians, and human behaviors. Digital twins


allow for testing new technology and ideas without putting humans at risk.
Respondents noted that increasing the efficiency of large data storage collation
to accurately predict and understand near-miss incidents may lead to importantsafety developments across several modes of transportation.Recommendations for future exploration that ARPA-I could support includedthe utilization of AI to better predict and understand traffic flows to betteroptimize traffic on our roads.
Transit Service with Smart Dispatch using AI technologies
Automated Vehicles & Driving Policy Within a 'Smart City' program, needs on Data,First Responders, and the Workforce(see:
  https://www.transportation.gov/sites/dot.gov/files/2021-01/USDOT_AVCP.pdf )
 The Role of Technology in Improving Project Delivery
Emerging, Overlooked, and Underleveraged Innovation for Safety  
Sector-5 will be devoted to AI-Enabled World Diplomacy Technologies Center
Funding Grant from State Department
Modernizing U.S. Diplomatic Statecraft through AI use & initiatives
https://www.state.gov/artificial-intelligence
https://2021-2025.state.gov/department-of-state-ai-inventory-2024/
Creation of new AI marketplace to bring specialized AI capabilities to a myriad ofState employees.
 
From citizen services to foreign policy analyses and even negotiation advantages, AIoffers the State Department opportunities to enhance Department efforts with originalinsights and beyond-human processing speed.
 
Investigate and advance scientific and technological capabilities and promotedemocracy and human rights by working together to identify and seize theopportunities while meeting the challenges by promoting shared norms andagreements on the responsible use of AI.
Together with our allies and partners, the Department of State promotes aninternational policy environment and works to build partnerships that further ourcapabilities in AI technologies, protect our national and economic security, andpromote our values. Accordingly, the Department engages in various bilateral andmultilateral discussions to support responsible development, deployment, use, andgovernance of trustworthy AI technologies.
Please direct me to the correct GSA Executive that can discuss repurposing the FEI Institute  
as our envisioned Technology Centers of Excellence-COEs...either by selling it to us, or  
within a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) type of arrangement, wherein we assume the FEI  
Property Lease.
Regards,
Michael J. Erickson, USMC-Retired
President, LilyPad Airways, LLC




