1 Faisal D’Souza  
National Coordination Office  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development Program  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Dear Mr. D’Souza:  
Microsoft appreciates the opportunity to provide comments to the White House Office of 
Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) in its request for information for the  Development of 
an Artificial  Intelligence ( AI) Action Plan. As a leading U.S. technology company deeply 
committed to sustaining and enhancing America’s leadership in AI, we want to first 
acknowledge and thank President Trump for his strong leadership on AI during his first 
term. As our Vice Chair and President, Brad Smith, recently wrote, we believe this is a 
golden opportunity for American AI.  
We share the Administration’s goal:  the  United States must stay at the forefront of AI. At 
Microsoft, we have a responsibility to enable innovation and foster competition in this 
dynamic AI ecosystem. AI is a foundational technology with a transformative capability to 
help solve societal proble ms, improve human productivity, and make companies and 
countries more competitive. That is why Microsoft is investing over $50 billion in America's 
AI infrastructure in 2025, with projects in places like Wisconsin and Arizona creating state -
of-the-art datacenters and thousands of jobs. Our investmen t in America’s AI infrastructure  
underscores the crucial role American companies play in advancing local economic 
growth by providing the infrastructure communities need to power this digital 
transformation.  
As we promote innovation and adoption of these powerful AI tools, we must take steps to 
build trust in AI, ensure we protect the public from abusive AI, and defend our national 
security. As AI technology rapidly evolves, it is crucial to safeguard our nati on's critical 
infrastructure and fortify our AI labs from malicious actors. Ensuring that our laws are 
updated to protect people from AI -enhanced fraud and non -consensual imagery is critical. 
We applaud the First Lady’s energy and  leadership on the latter.  
Most importantly, we offer ourselves as a resource to the Administration and propose 
several policy recommendations across three critical topics for your consideration: 1) 
Accelerating American AI, 2) Protecting the Public and Enhancing National Security; (3) 
Investing in Scientific Research and Science-based AI Standards.  
Accelerating American AI 
Today, the United States is the world -leader in cutting -edge AI infrastructure, frontier model 
development, and training a skilled workforce  to power a robust AI driven economy.  China  


2 is investing in AI innovation to try to catch up and outcompete the United States. Continued 
innovation and leadership by the United States at a global scale will require that the private 
sector and government  coordinate and  work together to harness the full potential of our 
domestic capabilities, like advanced semiconductors, world -class engineering talent, and 
access to low -cost power. It will also be driven by the ongoing partnerships between 
companies that operate at vari ous levels of the AI technology stack —from chip designers 
to hyperscalers to AI model developers. Much like the advent of electricity, AI is a general-
purpose technology . AI holds the potential to revolutionize industries, enhance 
productivity, and create entirely new business categories. We need to recognize where we 
are at this moment in time with the advent of powerful AI and its long -term importance to 
people and society  by investing in AI infrastructure, AI skilling, and AI data to keep our lead.  
Power the Growth of AI Infrastructure 
The new AI economy will require enormous computational power. Historically, such power 
could only be found in a handful of government -funded institutions, and only available to a 
select few. But the advent of the public cloud changed that. Today, datacente rs around the 
world host millions of servers and make vast computing power broadly available to 
organizations large and small. New datacenter investments, like those Microsoft is making 
across the United States, will aid tech startups, enterprises, governm ent agencies, 
research labs, and non -profit organizations around the country as they innovate new AI 
tools and businesses.  
Datacenters play a vital role as the economic engines of communities and states. They 
support mission -critical operations in a 24/7 digital environment, drive economic growth in 
regions, and improve productivity across sectors and industries. But they also  require 
electricity in large sums to power this digital economy, as well as critical inputs to hook up 
to the grid, like transformers. To power this infrastructure, the United States will need to 
invest in more energy resources, onshore our supply chains,  and modernize our electric 
grid to support forecasted  increases in electrical loads.   
As the United States sees more adoption of cloud services, AI, and the reshoring of 
manufacturing, the need for abundant, affordable, and reliable power will continue to 
accelerate. This growing demand underscores the importance of timely investments in ne w 
generation , transmission, and distribution infrastructure to support economic growth and 
national security. To support the growing demand for electricity, ensure grid reliability, and 
connect new generation sources, it is essential to modernize and expand the existi ng grid 
infrastructure. Our advanced economy relies on 50 -year-old infrastructure that cannot 
meet the increasing electricity demands driven by AI, reshoring of manufacturing, and 
increased electrification.  
There are several areas where the federal government can fuel innovation, support the 
development of energy infrastructure, and accelerate the permitting process. Therefore, we 
recommend the federal government:  


3 •Streamline the federal permitting process to accelerate economic growth.  The
federal government should take immediate  steps to establish reliable, reasonable,
and transparent timelines for permitting decisions. Furthermore, the federal
government could provide standardization for federal permits related to datacenters
to ensure consistent timelines across permitting agenc ies in various parts of the
country. The federal government should e nable the use of AI and advanced digital
technologies to accelerate decision -making.
•Increase resources in energy development.  It is critical that energy -generation
resources be added to the grid, including nuclear and fusion, at a pace to keep up
with demand. For example, Microsoft has signed a 20 -year power purchase
agreement with Constellation to restart the Three Mile Island Unit 1, now renamed
the Crane Clean Energy Center, which will add 835 megawatts of carbon -free
electricity to the grid . This will create 3,400 direct and indirect jobs, while also
contributing over $3 billion in local, state , and federal taxes .  To accelerate energy
development,  it is essential to improve the interconnection process  and provide
faster determinations.  Furthermore, the federal government should  increase
research and development dollars as well  utilize tax incentives to drive ac celerated
development .
•Advance the Federal-State Modern Grid Deployment Initiative. Help enhance
grid technologies with federal support by modernizing the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission (FERC)’s authority for interregional transmission planning to boost
capacity, reduce congestion , and ensure efficient permitting for new transmission
lines.
•Increase domestic manufacturing of energy infrastructure.   There is a need for
additional manufacturing capacity for electricity grid infrastructure . Using economic
tools, like tax incentive s, and ensuring adequate supply of key grid infrastructure
components as the U.S. builds increased capacity will reduce our dependence on
foreign sources for electric grid infrastructure.
•Enhance resilience of AI supply chain .  U.S. capacity  is limited not only in critical
minerals, but also key components like printed circuit boards, generators/generator
batteries, cooling liquids and systems, and networking equipment.  Investment in
this area is necessary to address these gaps . Cooperation with allies and partners,
particularly where there is a lack of domestic access or low margins , makes
production impractical or unattractive for  reshoring.
Skill the American Workforce for the AI Future  
AI has the potential to bolster the productivity and quality of work for American workers. 
We also expect advances in AI to create millions of new jobs over the next decade  including 
novel kinds of jobs that do not exist today . To keep America competitive and ensure 
Americans of all backgrounds have the critical AI skills necessary to benefit from these 
opportunities, the government should take a holistic workforce development approach to 
ensure every American can participate i n the AI economy. Most individuals will require 
basic AI literacy skills, enabling them to leverage existing technology and streamline other 


4 functions in the workplace. Some individuals will need deeper training that builds upon 
existing disciplines like applied science, cybersecurity, machine learning, security, and 
data science, potentially evolving into a new generation of AI engineering. Others will 
require interdisciplinary expertise and skills to design or manage the integration of AI 
systems into the business processes that support organizations across the private, public, 
and non-profit sectors. In some instances, individuals will need to learn skilled trades to 
build and maintain data centers for AI. To meet the totality of these skill needs, the country 
must pursue a new national goal to make AI skilling accessible and useful for every 
American. This will require a broad range of partnerships and public policies , spanning 
geographic, o rganizational, and economic divides.  
In furtherance of President Trump’s 2019 EO 13859, Maintaining American Leadership in 
Artificial Intelligence, which raised the importance of training current and future 
generations of American workers with skills for today’s economy and jobs of the future , we 
recommend the federal government:  
•Target federal apprenticeships.  Target current federal apprenticeship investments
into regions which have identified major AI infrastructure initiatives and could
benefit from expanded apprenticeship opportunities to meet those building needs.
•Implement skills -based hiring.   Accelerate  efforts to implement skills -based hiring
within the federal government and help share best practices with private sector
employers, including  technology -based jobs.
•Enhance labor market insights. Modernize government labor market datasets to
capture the speed of change in the market, identify high -demand occupations, and
focus on the emerging skillsets needed in the future. Enrich or supplement these
data assets with aggregated private sector data  sources, which may offer more
granular, timely, and flexible data points.
•Establish  federal programs for on-the-job training.  Raising awareness to both
employers and employe es on the benefits of utilizing Section 127, within the
Internal Revenue Code,  could allow an increase in providing AI skilling.  Consider
new incentives to encourage employers to provide on-the-job AI skills training .
•Reauthorize the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA).  Encourage
Congress to reauthorize WIOA, a U.S. law that enhances federal workforce
development programs by working with states and local governments to help job
seekers find employment and training, to ensure that more funding is directed to
training and that programs can meet the needs of the AI and quantum future,
including through employer -driven training and ensuring that training programs are
relevant to the needs of today’s employers and  are focused on new technology.
K-12 education must adapt to the future realities of AI usage in both daily life and at work. 
This requires not only promoting efforts to help students understand the safe adoption of AI 
but also enhancing their fundamental  critical thinking skills . Multiple studies indicate that 
investments in computer science education significantly boost students' problem -solving 


5 and critical thinking capabilities. According to Code.org,  67% of new STEM jobs are in 
computing, yet only 11% of STEM graduates specialize in computer science. By 
incorporating AI literacy and technical skills into K -12 education, we can better prepare 
future workers to navigate and utilize advanced technologies , thereby driving productivity 
and economic growth. Therefore, we recommend the federal government:  
•Support professional development.  Provide professional development for
teachers to effectively teach AI -related subjects and integrate AI tools into the
classroom.
•Support ongoing education campaigns.  Continue and build upon current efforts to
educate schools and school districts and provide technical assistance to help them
responsibly deploy AI.
•Support public -private partnerships.  Incentivize and prioritize federal funds and
grants that support partnerships between technology companies and educational
programs, including apprenticeship and credentialed organizations, to develop up -
to-date AI curriculum.
Ensure U.S. Innovators Have Access to High Quality Data for AI 
To keep the United States at the vanguard of global AI development, w e need a healthy AI 
data ecosystem full of vast data to analyze themes, patterns, and insights across broad 
datasets. Aside from the world wide web, the federal government has the largest source of 
high-quality and high -volume data, such as in the National Archives, the Library of 
Congress, the Smithsonian, the Department of Commerce, National Institute of Health, 
and across many government agencies. These institutions lack the resources to make data 
accessible  for AI training. Much of the data is stored in non -digital formats, and even when 
it is digital, it may be offline or  locked behind paywalls in closed -access journals, 
restricting access to some of the most valuable scientific knowledge in the world. Making 
this knowledge available for AI training can advance the capabilities of AI models, driving 
innovation and discovery.  
In comparison, China is already investing in data resources with a plan to build a 
comprehensive system to manage  datasets  as a strategic resource by 2030. Its AI 
development is built on a robust foundation of vast data resources, government initiatives, 
and integrated data collection infrastructure, positioning it to lead in the global AI race. 
China is not alone in recogniz ing the economic and strategic value of national -scale data 
management. The United Kingdom is developing a National Data Library to foster its AI 
sector, highlighting a growing global trend of treating data as common for economic 
competitiveness. Therefore , we recommend the federal government:  
•Support a national open data campaign.  Launch an initiative to spur discoverable,
accessible, and usable data for U.S. competitiveness and innovation, by responsibly
providing access to  non-classified, non -sensitive state and federal government
data.


6 •Promote the creation and expansion of open data commons.  Support and
encourage  non-profit, academic, and cultural institutions to make valuable data
more discoverable, accessible,  and usable through the establishment of open data
commons .
•Remove restrictions and paywalls.  Create a fund to open scientific research
currently restricted by closed -access journals and paywalls  for AI training and
advancement .
•Formulate  and update incentives for data sharing.  A great deal of federally
funded research comes with a requirement that scientists openly share data
collected as part of research.  However, in many cases data is not shared as required
in funding agreements. Stronger incentives are needed to ensure that data is openly
shared in a  secure and  timely manner, via the contracts made with funding
agencies.
•Support the development and use of data annotations standards. Support the
development and use of standards for clearly annotating datasets with metadata
that clearly describe  the source, veracity, and provenance of datasets. Tracking the
provenance of data is especially important given the growth of synthetic data,
created by generative AI models.
To support AI innovation, our ambition for data must equal our ambition for infrastructure 
and talent. Without it, AI systems will stagnate. This includes access to data contained 
within online content, acquired data, synthetic data, and proprietary data. Open and fair 
access to data at scale —including copyrighted data —is critical for AI training. Efforts to 
undermine this goal will thwart AI progress. Fortunately, our existing “fair use” copyright 
laws, support advancing economic growth and prosperity.  
Grounded in the Constitution and designed to promote innovation, but not lock -up 
information, ideas and data, U.S. copyright law serves the dual function of protecting 
creative works and innovation. The fair use doctrine permits the use of copyrighted 
material without the permission of the rightsholder for certain purposes such as education, 
research and innovative applications that do not interfere with exploitation of the original 
work. Notwithstanding pending federal court cases examining this issue, it would grind U.S. 
AI innovation to a halt if t he training of models on copyrighted works is not  considered  fair 
use. As tech investors like Andreessen  Horowitz have noted  in their response to the 
Copyright Office’s Notice of Inquiry, “There is a very real risk that the overzealous 
enforcement of copyright when it comes to AI training —or the ad hoc limitation of the fair 
use doctrine that properly protects AI training —could cost the United States the battle for 
global AI dominance.” We could not agree more. To avoid this outcome, we recommend the 
federal government:  
•Enforce current law.  Enforce existing copyright law and uphold the fair use
doctrine, while also not allowing other countries to impose their version of copyright
law onto our companies.


7 Protecting the Public and Enhancing National Security 
AI's integration into our economy and society is reshaping how nations protect their 
citizens, secure borders  and critical infrastructure, and maintain global competitiveness. In 
doing so, w e must also ensure consumers trust  the technology. Trust is the foundation of 
adoption. By ensuring that AI systems are secure and reliable, we can accelerate their 
integration into our economy, driving innovation and competitiveness, while  also ensuring 
our national security . 
AI enhances cybersecurity, intelligence analysis, and operational efficiency. AI -powered 
cybersecurity solutions are vital for detecting and responding to cyber threats and  
safeguarding critical infrastructure. AI also improves intelligence operations by analyzing 
vast amounts of data, enabling accurate threat assessments and decision -making. By 
prioritizing AI development and fostering public -private partnerships, the United States can 
enhance our military prowess, economic strength, and diplomatic influenc e. 
As AI advances, its applications in national security will expand, presenting new 
opportunities and challenges. Reliable AI development and deployment are crucial to 
enhancing national security without compromising ethical standards or civil liberties. 
Access to both industry and open -source models is critical for government and businesses 
to have the latest technology at optimal cost, performance, and security. By fostering 
collaboration between government, industry, and academia, nations can drive 
technological advancements that bolster security and economic prosperity, ensuring a 
stable and secure future in an AI -driven world.  
Protecting the Public from Abusive AI to Build Trust 
The emergence of AI generated synthetic content  — text, images, and videos — presents 
new challenges for policymaker s. Synthetic content has the potential to revolutionize 
creative industries and enable new forms of artistic expression and innovation. However, it 
also harbors risks, as it can be manipulated for malicious purposes in the hands of bad 
actors. It will be c ritical for society to combat abusive AI -generated content  in a 
comprehensive  but targeted manner.  Last year, in an effort to provide ideas to maintain 
trust in our online ecosystem, Microsoft , published a white paper  setting forth 
recommendations for U.S. policymakers to consider in protecting children and seniors , 
while also en couraging  AI adoption.  
Additionally, w e must ensure that personal information of consumers is pro tected in a 
responsible way. Microsoft has advocated for a comprehensive federal privacy law since 
2005 because we know that consumer trust is critical to the adoption of new digital 
technologies. Therefore, we recommend the federal government:  
•Support the creation of a new “deepfake fraud statute.”  Modeled after the Truth
in Caller ID Act, enact legislation  that provides  law enforcement officials, including


8 state attorneys general and the Federal Trade Commission, authority to address AI -
generated fraud as they proliferate in speed and complexity.  
•Update laws.  Ensure that our federal and state laws on child sexual exploitation
and abuse and nonconsensual intimate imagery are updated to include AI -
generated content. We urge Congress to pass and the President to sign the TAKE IT
DOWN Act into law. We applaud the Senate for passing the bill by unanimous
consent and for the First Lady’s  endorsement .
•Promote use of state -of-the-art provenance technologies for authentic content.
Provenance  technology such as the C2PA specification   was originally developed to
authentic ate real media  and help the public better differentiate between authentic
and synthetic content . The federal government  can play an important role in
adopting these tools and should use this technology  to assist the public in
identifying authoritative government outputs as authentic .
•Support federal privacy legislation.  To ensure that consumers are protected and
have full confidence in new AI systems, it is critical that Congress pass a
comprehensive federal privacy law. This law should create a consistent national
standard, grant consumer  rights over their own information, and require responsible
use of personal information while still allowing for innovation and development of
new products and services.
Harness the Power of Highly Capable AI Models  for National Security  
The federal government should fully harness the power of highly capable American AI 
models to advance U.S. national security. AI models can provide groundbreaking 
capabilities to the U.S. defense and intelligence community. In particular, the use of AI 
systems powered by highly capable models can process and analyze vast amounts of data 
at a rapid pace to provide insights and threat detection  to inform decision-making.  These 
models can be used to enhance  the efficiency  of core agency functions , streamline 
operations , and reduce response times by providing more efficient solutions to complex 
challenges. The national security community has been slow to adopt highly capable AI  
models and use case development has been minimal. Cyber adversaries are adopting 
generative AI technology to gain strategic advantage with its power, reach, and capabilities 
and the U.S. cannot afford to fall behind the innovation curve.   We encourage the federal 
government to consider the situations for which this powerful technology can be most 
effectively harnessed. Therefore, we recommend the federal government:  
•Prioritize the adoption and use of domestic AI models by U.S. defense and
intelligence agencies for mission enablement and efficiency . U.S. Cloud Service
Providers (CSPs) have invested in and created a classified cloud infrastructure to
allow the Defense Department and Intelligence Community to leverage the most
advanced AI models at scale .
Secure the AI Technology Stack at Home and Abroad  
Securing the technology stack  that powers AI  is crucial for maintaining American economic 
competitiveness, technological advantage, and national security. Beyond traditional 


9 cybersecurity measures, this objective requires securing data centers, which house the 
infrastructure and platforms that host, train, fine -tune, and utilize models for inference. 
Across the AI tech stack, Microsoft employs state -of-the-art security control s and 
complies with U.S. laws and security requirements, as well as international agreements. 
The federal government can enhance technology stack security, support the development 
of robust cybersecurity measures, and promote secure development practices. Therefore, 
we recommend the federal government : 
•Develop comprehensive policies . The U.S. government should work with
technology companies to develop comprehensive policies that cover AI security for
each layer of the technology stack. This includes the infrastructure, data, model,
application, and governance layers.
•Enhance physical and cybersecurity measures . Implementing clear standards
and guidelines for physical and cybersecurity measures for data centers and AI
infrastructure.
•Promote secure development practices . Encourage the adoption of secure
development practices for relevant AI -related code. This includes developer
training, threat modeling, and using approved cryptography standards.
•Foster collaboration and innovation . Build connections across the technology
ecosystem to share best practices, advance innovation on future -proofing security
posture, and address shared challenges through regular meetings and collaboration
opportunities.
Leverage AI for Enhanced Cybersecurity Protection 
Harnessing AI's capabilities can significantly enhance cyber defenses, streamline threat 
analysis, and fortify software systems. However, AI also introduces new risks that 
necessitate vigilant oversight and proactive measures. Collaborative efforts between 
government and industry, both domestically and internationally, are crucial to safeguarding 
AI infrastructure and preventing its malicious use. By leveraging existin g standards and 
fostering innovation, we can ensure that AI strengthens our defenses.  
In response to the evolving digital threat landscape , where last year, we detected over 600 
million cyber -attacks a day against our customers, Microsoft announced its Secure Future 
Initiative (SFI). SFI incorporates engineering investments and governance processes and 
procedures to ensure security is embedded in all our products, services, and c ulture. Using 
AI to defend against cyber adversaries is one pillar of SFI as it will provide defenders with an 
asymmetric advantage over the attackers. SFI also aims  to protect AI systems from 
emerging threats by leveraging existing risk -based cybersecurity standards, such as the 
NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) and the Secure Software Development Framework 
(SSDF).  SFI underscores Microsoft's resolve to ensure secure design, development, and 
operations  across our products and services, including AI technologies, safeguarding both 
national security and international competitiveness.    


10 Cybersecurity must underpin the federal government’s agenda to ensure secure design, 
development, deployment, and use of AI systems. Therefore, we recommend the federal 
government:  
•Advance the use of AI for cyber defense. Microsoft’s significant investment in AI
innovation is aimed at providing cybersecurity defenders with an asymmetric
advantage over attackers in the realm of defense. Recent advancements in AI can
help address long -standing challenges faced by cyber defenders including talent
shortage, burnout , and the scale, speed and efficiency required to defend against
cyber-attacks. The federal government should adopt AI capabilities to strengthen its
cyber defense and ensure the removal of compliance barriers for piloting modern
technology in federal gover nment environments.
•Leverage existing risk -based cybersecurity standards.  Cybersecurity
frameworks, standards, and best practices (“standards”) offer private and public
stakeholders a way to build trust and provide assurance. We encourage the federal
government to avoid developing duplicative policies by leveraging existing ris k-
based and outcomes  focused cybersecurity standards (e.g., NIST CSF 2.0, SSDF
v1.1). Unlike prescriptive cybersecurity requirements, risk -based standards offer
flexibility and agility to streamline regulations, drive consistency, and incentivize
innovation and cross -border commerce. Developing new standards from scratch is
a resource -intensive process and the federal government can save substantial
resources using and building on existing risk -based standards while still ensuring
robust cybersecurity measures are in place.
•Streamline regulation.  The current U.S. approach to cybersecurity regulation is
fragmented across topics and industry sectors resulting in conflicting compliance
regimes that can steer resources from cybersecurity to compliance. We encourage
the federal government to streamline  AI regulations, as many traditional
cybersecurity practices protecting software and hardware —already covered by
existing regulations —are applicable to AI.
•Focus on emerging threats. Recent advancements in AI may introduce new
cybersecurity attack techniques .  It will be critical for the federal government, in
close collaboration with industry, to focus on addressing emerging AI threats, in
particular threats from adversaries and threats targeting critical infrastructure.
Additionally,  the United States should collaborate with allies to continue to develop
and implement  international cybersecurity norms to hold accountable those
responsible for malicious cyber -attacks. Furthermore, naming  attacks by nation-
state actors  like China, Iran, North Korea, and Russia in venues like the United
Nations Security Council  is important .
•Prepare for and address resiliency of U.S. agencies and critical infrastructure to
defend against AI -based attacks.  Adversaries may use AI  in new ways to help them
design and plan sophisticated multipoint attacks, e.g., sequences of infrastructural
disruptions across several distinct sectors. It is important to recognize and address
new forms of AI -supported attacks by, for example, employing AI red -teaming


11 
 studies and using results to guide hardening and introduction of new resiliencies.  
For additional ideas, see Applications for artificial intelligence in Department of 
Defense cyber missions - Microsoft On the Issues  
 
The federal government’s leadership in the adoption of AI is crucial for setting a standard 
across various sectors and ensuring that the United States remains at the forefront of 
technological innovation. By taking proactive measures in integrating AI into  its operations,  
leveraging  pre-existing AI enabled applications , the federal government can not only 
accelerate the delivery of critical public services but also drive widespread adoption, 
improve government services for people, and increase confidence for other industries. 
Furthermore, by leveraging refined AI models, optimized for key use cases, organizations 
within government can accelerate application development, enhance security through 
real-time threat detection, ensure compliance, and enable scalable automation. The 
federal government should  embrace the vast array of models available in the  AI ecosystem. 
This leadership is essential for fostering public trust in AI technologies and promoting AI 
deployment.  
Investing in Scientific Research and AI Standards  
The United States has a long and successful history in utilizing public -private partnerships 
for global  scientific  leadership.  Today, America leads the world’s innovation economy  
because of decisions made decades ago to provide publicly funded research infrastructure 
and financial support to talented scientists and entrepreneurs. Through federal, state, and 
local governments, investments were made in regional economies and program s that were 
big bets on American innovation. The great incubators of the 20th century —from Bell Labs 
to the network of federal national labs —were intentional decisions to bring industry, 
government, and academia together to accelerate science.  
 
Today, the significance of deploying the same playbook for AI and quantum technologies 
cannot be overstated. Investments in these fields are essential to pioneering the 
development of cutting -edge technology solutions that address complex global 
challenges . To maintain America’s role as the global scientific leader, it is crucial to 
increase federal investment in key areas of AI Research and Development (R&D), support 
for the National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST) , the Office of the National  
Coordinator for Health Information Technology  (ONC), and the establishment of the 
National AI Research Resource (NAIRR).  
Increase Investment in AI Research and Development  
Investing in AI R&D is essential to advance the development of AI models and other 
innovative AI technology , including enhancing our own understanding of generative AI, 
driving model innovation, and extending overall human capabilities. Although the CHIPS 
and Science Act appropriated over $52 billion for semiconductor technology 
manufacturing, it only authorize d, but did not fund, the 'science' portion of the bill, leaving 


12 an estimated $50 billion shortfall in ag gregate investments . To outcompete a nation like 
China, which has significantly boosted investment in R&D, the U.S. must accelerate 
strategic investments in scientific research for future technologies. Experts predict that 
China will continue to invest substantial resources i nto next-generation technologies such 
as AI, advanced manufacturing, clean energy, quantum computing, and semiconductors 
over the next decade. Therefore, we recommend the federal government:  
•Increase AI R&D spending.  Encourage Congress to increase spending on AI
Research and Development (AI R&D). By increasing AI R&D, the United States will
not only advance the development of AI but can also properly leverage commercial
AI capabilities and increase adoption of AI for Science by empowering our scientists
and researchers with the resources they need to accelerate discovery.
Establish the National AI Research Resource (NAIRR)  
To secure U.S. global leadership, it is also essential to empower institutions with access to 
data, computational power, and tools necessary for pioneering AI research and 
development. Establishing the NAIRR, as recommended by the NAIRR Task Force and 
outlined in the National Artificial Intelligence Initiative Act of 2020, will democratize access 
to advanced computational resources and data. This will ensure a diverse range of 
perspectives in AI research, facilitate the exploration of scientific challenges,  and develop 
the AI workforce of the future. Microsoft  is a lead supporter of the NAIRR pilot and looks 
forward to assisting with guidance and direction in standing up the full NAIRR.  Therefore, 
we recommend the federal government:  
•Support the CREATE AI Act.  Encourage Congress to pass the bipartisan Creating
Resources for Every American to Experiment with Artificial Intelligence Act (CREATE
AI Act), which would fully establish and fund the NAIRR.
Invest in the National Institute for Standards and Technology 
NIST holds a unique role in this AI moment. NIST special publications reflect consultation 
and engagement with varied stakeholders , offering American companies specific yet 
flexible guidance in developing frameworks they can use to build and deploy reliable, high -
performing AI technologies. NIST thus provides American companies concrete operational 
tools that facilitate domestic adopti on and continuous innovation. At the same time, the 
quality of NIST guidance has been recognized worldwide. Programs within NIST have 
tackled some of the most complex technical questions and enabled the United States to 
maintain a leadership position in multijurisdictional technical dialogues. NIST has also 
played a critical role in informing the global AI governance conversati on, bringing U.S. 
perspectives to multilateral fora like the Organization for Economic Cooperation and 
Development (OECD) and the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, as well as to international 
standardization bodies like ISO/IEC, where technical experts are actively developing 
consensus -based, voluntary AI standards. By reinforcing and investing in NIST, the United 
States can maintain its position in international scientific conversations and inform global 


13 AI governance  approaches that underpin growth for American AI . Therefore, we 
recommend the federal government:  
•Properly staff and fund NIST.  Properly resourcing NIST is vital to ensuring the
United States continues to lead in developing the measurement backed science
and standards that will facilitate domestic adoption and reinforce the American AI
advantage.
Promote the Development of Open, Industry -led Technical Standards 
Maintaining a strong role in establishing different forms of soft law is critical for the United 
States to win the AI race. Standards, open -source software, and codes of conduct are 
various forms of soft law that provide trust and accountability , which in turn provides AI 
users with the confidence to adopt and rely on the technology . Standards are built on 
public-private partnerships that have enabled U.S. technology leadership for more than 50 
years.  
The U.S. standardization system is based upon foundational principles  - industry-led, 
voluntary, open to all interested stakeholders, and rules -based – which allows market 
coherence ahead of uniformity when developing standards. This approach has been 
critical in leading U.S. technology innovations for global market adoption. At no point has 
this standardization system functioned successfully in a closed  or exclusionary capacity. 
Using standards and other soft law mechanisms to establish trusted implementations for 
efficient contracting are reasonable steps to protect users of the technology and to provide 
a counterweight  to industrial policy requirements from other nations. Therefore, we 
recommend the federal government:  
•Promote the development of open, industry-led technical standards
Maintaining a strong role in establishing different forms of soft law is critical for the
United States to win the AI race. Standards, open -source software, academic
papers, and codes of conduct provide trust and accountability, enabling U.S.
technology le adership for more than 50 years.
Support Global Engagement to Enhance American AI Leadership 
Even with  the tremendous technological advancement we have witnessed in AI over the 
past several years, President Trump’s 2019 Executive Order’s policy on scientific research 
remains valuable. As stated in the EO, “The United States must drive technological 
breakthroughs in AI across the federal government, industry, and academia in order to 
promote scientific discovery, economic competitiveness, and national security.”  We could 
not agree more, yet we have seen that people and organizations will only integ rate and 
build upon breakthrough capabilities and products that are trustworthy and reliable. Trust 
in technology has underpinned every durable wave of innovation.  


14 There are two components to the trust that supports broad adoption and continuous 
innovation necessary for American technologies to thrive: first, trust in how technology 
itself performs; and second, trust that people and organizations can deploy it succes sfully. 
To create the conditions for innovation and AI adoption at scale, we need to keep investing 
in efforts to reinforce trust. Investing in scientific research and voluntary standards 
supports the first effort. Targeted guardrails can support the secon d. Having the United 
States play a leading role in shaping what those guardrails look like and how they can be 
implemented will create a more hospitable ecosystem both within the United States and 
across the world for American AI companies of all sizes. To  that end, we recommend the 
federal government:  
•Engage in international governance efforts, such as the G7 Hiroshima AI
Process. The United States should remain actively involved in conversations with
our allies to ensure they proceed in a way that reinforces rather than restricts
opportunities for American AI by helping to deepen, align, and streamline shared
expectations. The Hir oshima AI Process, and its associated reporting framework, is
one such work product. Strong U.S. involvement prevents the development of a
leadership vacuum that will be filled by countries like China.
•Build on U.S. AI research  leadership  via global AI institutes.  The United States
should remain involved in conversations with other AI safety and security  institutes
around the world to ensure American values are represented and integrated into the
development of international AI standards  and enabling research . This collaboration
will also help foster innovation by safeguarding against misuse of AI technologies.
•Promote AI innovation and deployment in U.S. trade agreements . Use digital
trade policy to promote alignment of regulatory frameworks and rules that support
innovation and deployment.  These include rules to support cross -border data
flows, limit localization of data, protect against forced transfer of technology as  a
condition for market access, and ensure non -discriminatory treatment of U.S. firms
in foreign markets.
•Promote U.S . friendly AI norms and oppose adversarial narratives  in
international organizations . The United States should continue to lead
conversations on AI with like -minded partners at the OECD (where President Trump
helped deliver the first -ever OECD AI Principles in 2019) and cultivate sensible,
action-oriented policies that spur innovation, pro mote interoperability, and create
markets for American business. The United States should similarly engage at the
United Nations (UN) by pushing to include the views of American tech companies in
UN processes, better shaping  UN governance, avoiding politicization, and rejecting
Chinese state -centric approaches.
Microsoft appreciates the opportunity to respond to the White House Office of Science and 
Technology Policy (OSTP) in its request for information for the AI Action Plan. We believe the 
federal government is uniquely positioned to drive AI adoption and fost er the American AI 
ecosystem through strategic investments, policy development, and international 
collaboration. By leveraging the principles of smart public -private partnership, science -


15 based standards,  and global engagement, the United States can ensure that its AI 
technologies supercharge  economic competitiveness and national security.  
“This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution. ” 


