From: Miguel Suarez
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan Concerns
Date: Monday, March 17, 2025 9:19:19 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
To whom it may concern,
Frankly speaking, AI-generative models should not be able allowed to train on copyrighted
materials as to do so would severely undermine creative industries across the board- from theart sector to the film industry and everything in-between. The extent to which these modelshave already advanced has only been due to the fact that they have unethically trained on thecatalogs of uncountable artists' works without their consent or in the case of platforms such asTwitter for instance, underhandedly set profiles to allow their content to be trained on bydefault. AI-generative models can only operate by infringing on the work of others while itsolely benefits.
Furthermore, allowing these models unrestricted access to copyrighted materials would create
a crisis of who can claim ownership to its creations. The line would be blurry between whocan claim its works -the owners of the AI models or the artists and creators from which itsmodels were trained on.
One final concern that should not be overlooked is how AI-generative models can easily be
weaponized for nefarious ends. Voice banks, if allowed to train without restriction, can andalready are used for disinformation; celebrities' voices and likenesses are used to fraudulentlyadvertise less-than-reputable services. To allow these models to train on works unimpededwould also allow them to impersonate anyone without being able to distinguish one from theother.
To reiterate once again, AI-generative should not be allowed unrestricted access to train on
copyrighted materials. Thank you for your time.
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


