 
   Mike Base 
1st, the term AI needs much more definition as there is much hyperbole and exaggeration with 
the term and meaning of "Artificial Intelligence". Without a clear definition that we can all agree 
on, this may be a failed effort, at least as far as representin g mankind. 2nd, If we are actually 
talking about machine and predictive learning, then lets discuss that as a step 1. As a Senior 
Software Engineer working in this area, and certified, I can tell you that machines do not learn 
by themselfs. Machines are fe d data elements, whether direct , labled, through connections to 
outside feeds, Deep learning and Predictive Analytics which is a groups determined view. There 
are always group of humans behind the curtain deciding what, or how those data feeds or 
predictions models occur. It is not difficult as the men behind the curtain to limit or increase data 
to that groups liking. I have worked with similar models. Machines can mimick human behavior 
based on labeled or predictive learning set up by a human. They excel  in the speed to which a 
decision is formed but decisons are only formed by the data fed them and the coded results from 
that data. So, that is why folks are saying machine learning, predicted results or as some call it 
AI is potentially dangerous. Pure an d Simple, Its all mans doing. Its only dangerous if designed 
that way, or designed without proper error handling, (like we have seen with self driving cars, 
where a parity bit or lack of can cause unfortunate results). Therefor Regulations are absolutely 
needed for "AI" and they need to be created and decided from both the House and Senate 
(BIPARTISAN representing the us population) and NOT from the man or group behind the 
curtain. We seem to be in a place where regulations are considered bad. I would agree  that there 
are too many in some areas. There are however areas of human health and safety where they are 
absolutely needed to have a safe society and a society that believes and trusts government 
decisions. I would also caution that views from the busines s community, will in many cases, be 
in direct conflict of those from the American public and we do not want this "Race" to disregard 
and hurt the American public. Please Remember government is for the people by the people, not 
by business world, or not by the men behind the curtain.  
 


