 - 1 - This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary 
or confidential information. Document contents may be  reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
 
Mistral AI 
15, Rue des Halles, 
75001 Paris, France 
 
March 15, 2025  
To: Faisal D’Souza, NCO  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  
Executive Office of the President  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
 
 
 
AI Action Plan 
 
Introduction: 
Mistral AI’s unique position at the intersection of open source and cutting-edge AI, its 
global positioning — and private status — offers a singular perspective to inform the 
upcoming AI Action Plan.  As a company with a mission to put AI in everybody’s hands through state-of-the-art 
generative AI models, products and solutions, Mistral AI hopes that this submission 
positively contributes to the policy discussion. We also hope it provides constructive 
input on how to foster innovation and ensure that AI benefits American society as a 
whole.  
Given our mission and commitment to open-source technologies, we believe that 
openness – in both markets and technology – are key to achieving these objectives.  
I. Promoting Open Markets & Open Innovation 
The United States has consistently succeeded in being at the vanguard of 
technological development due to its commitment to open markets, open innovation, 
and barrierless access for entrepreneurs. The policy environment and business culture 
empower anyone, anywhere to take a brilliant idea and convert it into a viable business. 
Ultimately, the market decides who wins. This thriving ecosystem and level playing 
field has encouraged risk-taking and unlocked easy access to investment — enabling 
bold decisions by entrepreneurs. These conditions not only benefit individual 


-2 -companies but also strengthen the overall technological landscape. Mistral AI 
exemplifies this same spirit of innovation and competition.  
The tradition of the open market was historically made possible by a commitment to 
embracing innovation in the earliest days of Internet policy development. This prudent 
and prescient foundation ensured that the market was not unduly stifled — or cornered 
— by just a handful of actors. Reinforcing these shared principles is advisable in the age o f AI, primarily to ensure that large market entrants do not leverage their market 
position to gain undue dominance and further concentrate power around their businesses — at the expense of innovation. A more decentralized approach will also 
help to unleash the next generation of companies that can unlock America’s full AI potential.  
The Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) have been 
crucial in maintaining competition and preventing monopolies from emerging. This 
work is commendable. As a smaller actor and an independent player with our first 
American office in Palo Alto, California, that seeks to grow, hire, and unlock value in 
the United States, Mistral AI supports all such efforts that promote and maintain 
America’s strong legacy of fierce, dynamic, and market-led competitiveness. Most 
importantly, we believe this approach also advances the public’s ability to choose from 
a range of AI-powered products and services — many of which we cannot even 
conceive of today. If the future AI sector looks the same as the traditional tech sector today — centralized and largely gate-kept by a handful of large market-dominant 
incumbents — it will likely inhibit the extraordinary and transformational power of AI in 
society.  
To foster this innovation, access to data is highly strategic and constitutes a significant 
differentiator for companies aiming to offer the most performant models. Permissive 
regulations favorable to the transformative use of data by model developers prom ote 
a culture of innovation on the international stage. Data access restrictions reinforce the dominant position of a few actors with proprietary or first-party data, reducing both 
competition and the diversity of the content generated by the models.  
We hope the Trump Administration continues its pro-market, pro-innovation, and pro-
user approach in this regard — for the benefit of all Americans.     
II.Placing Open Source at the Center of U.S. AI Development
At the technical level, at Mistral AI, we believe a decentralized — open source-led — 
approach to AI is immensely beneficial. Making AI accessible to the widest possible range of developers — including entrepreneurs, scientists, academics, and others — 
ensures that AI benefits society as a whole. Open -source models, like those developed 
by Mistral AI, allow for broader participation in AI research, leading to more robust, secure, and reliable systems. They also empower auditing, peer review, and security 
checks at a speed and scale that is unrivaled. Furthermore, widely available model 
weights can propel AI research further by enabling the widest possible set of actors to 
experiment, innovate, and build.  
Many open foundation models are more advanced than most closed models 
developed. Crucially, they empower all American builders — regardless of their 


 - 3 - background or formal education levels — to take existing models and develop on top 
of them. This meritocratic approach to technological development removes barriers to 
entry and ensures that the depth and breadth of innovation can exist right across the 
country — not just in the traditional hubs of entrepreneurship. It also unleashes people, 
open markets, and entrepreneurial culture fully to the task at hand: protecting 
innovation, contributing to national security, and empowering its best and brightest to 
build.  
Lastly, we believe open-source approaches to AI development can lead to more 
security measures and proportionate guardrails. These technical approaches empower 
a broader range of actors to scrutinize and test models, helping to identify potential 
vulnerabilities and implement targeted safety training, testing, and patches. This 
approach also enhances cyber defense initiatives by allowing firms, researchers, and 
users to process sensitive data without relying on third-party proprietary models for 
processing. Open -source technology, too, can be accessed by a broad variety of 
communities, enabling a natural and expansive system of checks and balances. This collaborative approach fosters diverse perspectives, ensuring that AI is more 
representative and less susceptible to the influences of a select few.  
III. Recommended Actions for the AI Action Plan 
  
1. Supporting the development of SMBs and mid-caps 
Implementing rules that support the development of SMBs, and mid-caps is crucial for 
fostering a more competitive and innovative AI market. This is especially important in 
the generative AI industry, which requires extraordinary amounts of capital across the 
entire value chain. Developing rules and standards tailored to smaller companies and 
promoting programs that favor their growth will be key to ensure the durability of many 
actors in the market.  
Indeed, for many players, even those who have successfully raised significant funds, 
the resource gap– compared to established incumbents remains substantial. This 
disparity makes it challenging for them to solidify their position in a market that 
demands long-term investment and vision. In particular, simplifying AI procurement 
processes to enable smaller players to compete would be a positive step in opening new markets to these companies. Furthermore, many SMBs will also require training 
and other resources to ensure they can quickly and efficiently adopt AI.  
Mistral AI, with its operations and partnerships in the U.S., is deeply committed to 
supporting the homegrown American development ecosystem.  
2. Enhancing global chip mobility and inference capabilities 
Investing in the development and trade of chips is essential for advancing AI 
capabilities and ensuring that the U.S. remains at the forefront of technological 
innovation. Export controls can have unintended consequences. These controls can 
also move innovation to other competing territories, as companies seek to avoid 
restrictions by developing technologies in more permissive environments. Therefore, 
the AI Action Plan should consider striking a balance that protects national security 


 - 4 - without stifling innovation and economic growth in the U.S. Furthermore, imposing 
strong tariffs on AI models could hinder the development of new models from abroad 
that the U.S. can capitalize upon for the creation of new development, new jobs, and 
growth at home. 
3. Avoiding a fragmented U.S. regulatory environment: 
Deregulation at the federal level could inadvertently trigger a regulatory backlash at 
the state level, especially from states like California, Colorado, and Connecticut, which 
have historically been proactive in enacting their own regulations to address perceived 
federal shortcomings. This could lead to a fragmented regulation throughout the U.S, 
and eventually create barriers for innovation and harm the growth of AI technologies. 
Specifically, a patchwork of state-level approaches can lead to high compliance costs 
for new entrants, challenge expansion potential, and harm cross-state commerce. It 
can often reinforce the dominance of the biggest companies who can incur the costs, 
inadvertently undermining an open, competitive marketplace.   More than the 
regulation itself, it is its fragmentation within the 27 member states of the European 
Union that makes it difficult to manage in terms of compliance and legal certainty — 
not to mention the administrative costs and investment hurdles cited above. Therefore, 
prioritizing, if necessary, federal-level regulation would ensure a more streamlined and 
predictable regulatory environment, fostering innovation and economic growth.   
4. Encouraging international cooperation for a pro-innovation governance: 
To ensure that the U.S. remains at the forefront of AI innovation, the government 
should consider targeted international cooperation, as warranted. This approach will 
not only drive global innovation in conjunction with like-minded partners, but it will also 
ensure that AI development is turbocharged in these regions. National security 
interests, for example, should be protected, but we believe technological partnership 
between the U.S. and the rest of the world — including the EU — can be mutually 
beneficial, particularly with early-stage tech like AI. More importantly, we believe that sharing models and empowering development across markets ultimately bolsters 
competition, improves security, and unlocks a thriving marketplace for investment and 
entrepreneurship.  
Conclusion  
Mistral AI is committed to the growth of our U.S. operations and serving American 
customers, and we commend the administration on their open feedback process. We 
are committed to using our technology to further empower American entrepreneurship 
and to contribute to a thriving AI ecosystem in the U.S. We believe our mission to be 
an open-source leader aligns with the Trump Administration's goals — and the 
fundamental strengths of America’s historical policies promoting open competition, open markets, and open innovation.  
  


-5 -About Mistral AI: 
Mistral AI is a pioneer company in generative artificial intelligence, empowering the 
world with the tools to build and benefit from the most transformative technology of our 
time. The company democratizes AI through high-performance, optimized, and cutting-
edge open-source models, products and solutions. Headquartered in France and 
independent, Mistral AI defends a decentralized and transparent approach to 
technology, with a strong global presence in the United States, United Kingdom, and 
Singapore.  


