From: Mitchell Tewksbury
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 4:08:13 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Hello,This exception should not go into effect. Either everyone follows the same laws and regulations or no one
does. Many people rely on their work being protected and this idea is so flawed that anyone could justclaim they're training a GenAi and then suddenly every single copyrightable work, including SOFTWARE,is free to use. This sets an extremely dangerous precedent.
In addition, this GenAI will be used to compete against those who don't use it, but are forced to follow
Copyright rules putting them in an unfair advantage in the market. It will also encourage stealing asanyone could just go take whatever someone generated with AI and just throw that in their own AI andgenerate something with that. It will create an environment of constant theft and we'll just start to look likeChina at that point.
This could also cause products from companies using GenAI to be banned in places where they do
enforce Copyright rules and lots of litigation from companies that sell products in our country that areextremely protective of their IPs.
Ultimately, this is just a bad and poorly thought out idea that only seeks to try and get a leg up after they
hit a dead end with a product most people use for amusement or have no interest in it at all while causingnothing, but problems for everyone else.
Thank you,
Mitchell Tewksbury
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AIAction Plan and associated documents without attribution.
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


