Submitted on Behalf of Modine Manufacturing  
This docu ment is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
At Mod ine, we are Engineering a Cleaner, Healthier World ™. Building on more than 100 years of 
excellence in thermal management, we provide trusted systems and solutions that improve air quality and 
conserve energy and natural resources. Our employees are at work in every corner of the globe, delivering 
the solutions our customers need, where they need them.  While we believe that the United States is well positioned to be the preeminent country to achieve Artificial Intelligence (“AI”) dominance, we believe  
there are certain challenges that must be addressed to ensure that result.  Our long tenured experience providing solutions to data center customers of different shapes and size all over the world has informed 
our opinion in this RFI . 
We be lieve there are four critical pillars required to support development, implementation and control of 
the race for AI dominance.  Specifically, we believe the following  four pillars are essential: 
1.Best i n class chip and board technology
2.Power availability and reliability
3.Comprehensive thermal management
4.Reduced latency and sufficient security
Pillar 1 : Chips and Board Technology  
To suppo rt AI algorithms , there is an incredible strain placed on chips and boards.  AI requires incredibly 
complex, high computing demands - much more so than normal computers performing more traditional 
functions .  To support those demands, chips and boards must be able to support processing multiple 
actions simultaneously, multi -language processing and learning functions, process incredible amounts 
information over extended periods of time with little to no drain on efficiency , speed, energy and 
bandwidth.  The United States is already home to some of the leading chip and board engineers and 
manufacturers, but needs to invest more in developing expertise and capability.  That notwithstanding, even the best and brightest engineers  are faced with infrastructure and technology barriers because there 
is not an environment in the United States to consistently support the chip and board innovation.   
Pillar 2 :  Power Availability & Reliability  
For A I dominance, the United States not only needs to have sufficient power in the  grid to support the 
incredible energy consumption needed to run data centers and AI, there needs to be reliability that the energy feeding data centers is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.  A recent report published by the Department of Energy estimates that data centers in the United States consume nearly 4.5% of the total 
energy available in the United States.  That same report estimates data center energy  demands will nearly 
triple to as high as 12% in the next three years.  At the current rate of innovation of chips and boards, 


there is a real risk that the energy demands could easily surpass these estimates.  Even with the current 
administration’s focus on increasing energy development and production, there is a critical need to operate at optimal energy efficiency.  With greate r innovation of chips and boards, this need for efficiency 
will only increase.  And, as stated, even if data centers are operating at optimal efficiency, there is still a critical need to ensure that energy is continuously supplied to the data centers.  In critical environments, 
whether its relatively controlled environments like data centers or essential manufacturing facilities,  or in 
the field supporting military or energy mining and production operations, AI cannot perform without a 
continuous supply of energy.  
Pillar 3:  Comprehensive Thermal Management  
The AI  lifecycle, encompassing energy sourcing, data storage, and high -performance computing, relies 
heavily on robust thermal management. Inadequate cooling at any point can trigger chip and server overheating, resulting in system failures and costly data center downtime.  The need for precise 
temperature control extends to all data centers, not just those supporting AI. Maintaining a consistent temperature range is vital for server, chip, and board performance. To achieve this, data centers employ a range  of cooling technologies, from traditional air- cooled systems to cutting -edge direct -to-chip liquid 
cooling. These solutions utilize various components, including indoor air handling units (CRACs, CRAHs, CDUs, rear door heat exchangers) and outdoor units (dry coolers, adiabatic air handlers, chillers) to ensure uptime, optimize performance, and reduce energy consumption.  
Pillar 4:  Reduced Latency & Sufficient Security  
Securin g information is increasingly critical,  especially when it involves personal and/or financial 
information.  The U nited States faces continued threats from domestic and foreign actors  who attack our 
latest technology in an effort to  steal information that compromise the safety and stability of US citizens, 
financial institutions and critical infrastructure, as well as numerous other individuals and institutions .  
Data is the life blood of AI , as we need clean, accurate data to build, train and validate the large language 
models.  As attacks on our data become more prevalent and sophisticated, the United States needs to be 
prepared to detect and contain this threat.  Developing  smaller, more partitioned data center solutions 
that can work “off- line”  is an effective approach that must be explored further.  These siloed , off- line data 
centers limit outside access, while also allowing AI functionality in areas where connectivity to the internet is low or potentially compromised.  Moreover, moving high performance compute closer to the point of use reduces  time to respond to a given set of inputs, also known as  latency.   There has been a rise in 
solutions to move high performance  computing to the rugged edge  (e.g. conflict regions, mine sites, etc .), 
while also allowing for high performance computing to be mobile .  However, there needs to be more  
development and adoption in this area .  The combination  of security needs, offline high performance 
compute and low latency solutions mandates that the United States continue to develo p “edge” data 
center solutions  as an integral part of a more comprehensive AI road map . 
Modine  Solutions  Can Support Growth  
Modine’s  industry leading  core  competency , providing thermal management solutions , can be a critical 
component to help address Pillar 3 .  We have a unique number of data center products that are tied 
together with a controls platform to offer best in class system efficiency and reliability.  For a completely 


optimized solution, we believe all pillars must be  connected .  Specifically , Modine must work closely with 
the chip and board engineers and manufacturers  to understand the characteristics  of the dynamic thermal 
load that needs to be mana ged.  Ensuring proper heat removal from the chips allow them to operate at 
their full potential at the lowest energy usage .  That then ties to power availability and reliability .  Every 
kilowatt of energy that goes into thermal management of high performance compute is a unit of energy 
that cannot be invested into the solution or adjacent need.  For example, imagine high performance 
compute on a electric combat vehicle operating in stealth mode.  The same battery system is needed to propel the vehicle, power the high performance compute needed to achieve success in the overall mission and power the thermal management solution.  T his last example also highlights the need to reduce latency 
and have sufficient security.  A mobile high performance compute example  in a remote conflict region  
cannot afford to be compromised or wait longer than the enemy to get the optimal answer  to a mission 
critical issue .  Modine has traditional data center solutions along with innovative and emerging  edge 
solutions , and has become  a trusted partner in  making the US a leader in  all four pillars. Through this 
synergistic approach, we are positioned to help ensure America’s AI dominance   
Conclu sion  
Modine c ontinues to develop technology through our commercial market channels, but government 
policy could further encourage develo pment of artificial intelligence solutions.  In many areas technology 
has already been developed, but the entire ecosystem has not been developed yet.  Until that ecosystem 
is better defined and the issues addressed herein are linked, there is a risk that other countries could 
create policies that encourage this collaboration and build better solutions that become a very credible  
threat to the United States . 


