3/14/2025  via FDMS  
Ava  Monkelis ,  
My name is Ava Monkelis and I am a member of the graduating class of 2025 at Avonworth 
High S chool. I completed a semester course on AI and Ethics and studied the impacts of 
Generative AI on creativity. EO 14179 will undoubtedly boost AI integration into s ociety as well 
as allow room for companies to develop their training models. However, in doing so without any regulation whatsoever the ethical perspective becomes morally grey. This ambiguity leaves room for error and could harm a lot of people. Creativit y is a broad spectrum and doesn't always have 
to align solely within the arts community, and in fact is present in simple daily life. As a student, oftentimes when given an assignment there isn't one definitive way to complete it, and each individual has their own process that works in their favor. The ability to choose what works and is most efficient greatly improves quality of life. That alone is creativity; the freedom to choose how to complete a task. AI at its core is math and is based on softwares, algorithms etc, and is designed specifically so that an input constitutes an equal and opposite output. This is extremely efficient and a useful tool that I have personally used many times, but the philosophy behind mathematics is directly opposite to creat ivity. This isn't an inherently bad thing, but there is an 
unspoken competition between the two industries creating the idea that only one can exist. I understand the reasoning for wanting to not put regulations on AI development because it is and will con tinue to change the world, and also provides opportunity for economic growth with how 
successful the major technology companies are. I also agree that AI should be encouraged and continue to be developed because it isn't going anywhere so we might as well use it to our 
advantage. However in doing so without any regulations people are not properly educated about how to use it safely, and are therefore prone to deep fake scams, and also their data being compromised by these companies legally because of the al ready slim regulations. There are 
several ongoing instances where artists specifically have their work essentially stolen by companies using it to treat their large language models, and outside of the arts community who knows what the full capabilities are . Regulation is necessary to obtain the full benefits. It's not a 
limit but rather a precaution to protect the general public, and to hopefully lead to flourishing.  
 


