 
 
March  15, 2025 
 
 
Submitted  via electronic  mail  (ostp -ai-rfi@nitrd.gov ) 
AI Action  Plan 
Attn: Faisal  D'Souza,  NCO 
2415 Eisenhower  Avenue  
Alexandria,  VA 22314  
 
Re: Comments  on the OSTPʼs  Development  of an AI Action  Plan,  Document  No. 
2025
 02305, from MX Technologies, Inc.  
 
 
Introduction  
MX Technologies,  Inc. ("MX")  appreciates  the opportunity  to contribute  to the 
OSTP's  development  of an AI Action  Plan. At MX, our mission  is to empower  the 
world  to be financially  strong.  We do this by helping  financial  institutions,  fintechs, 
and businesses  understand  and do more  with consumer -permissioned  financial  
data so that they can better  serve  their consumers.  For the past 13 years,  MX has 
focused  on improving  customer  outcomes  by helping  these  organizations  to 
reliably  connect  to financial  data,  generate  intelligence  that drives  growth  and 
personalized  insights  for consumers,  and deliver  better  money  experiences  to 
consumers.  
As a pioneer company in the financial data and software space, we understand 
how data access can fuel AI innovation in financial services — benefiting both 
consumers and the economy. AI presents immense opportunities across the  
financial services ecosystem. Depository institutions, loan providers, fintechs, and 
payment platforms are already providing AI -powered services that benefit 
consumers today. Overall, the future of AI in finance, including the automated  
management  of financial  activities,  could  revolutionize  the way Americans 
experience  and manage  their financial  lives.  We support  the OSTPʼs  efforts  and 
appreciate  the chance  to provide  recommendations  focusing  on financial  data 
access  and AIʼs role in financial  services,  emphasizing  innovation  while  mitigating 
risks.  


2 As you develop  your AI Action  Plan, we recommend  you consider  modernizing  
financial  data regulations,  improving  coordination  between  regulatory  agencies  to 
ensure  consistency,  and standardizing  risk assessment  and mitigation 
frameworks.  These  areas  are critical  to providing  clear rules of the road for 
companies  to safely  innovate  and serve  their customers  in the AI space,  while 
protecting consumers from potential risks.  
Data  Access  and AI Effectiveness  
AI models  are only as effective  as the data used to train and operate  those  
models.  But, many  AI models  — particularly  in financial  services  — can suffer 
performance  challenges  due to incomplete  datasets.  For instance,  AI models  that 
focus  on delivering  personalized  recommendations  to consumers  based  on their 
spending  and financial  behaviors  may be limited  or inaccurate  if they only see part 
of a consumerʼs  financial  history.  The average  consumer  has at least five or more 
financial  accounts  with various  banks,  credit  unions,  and other  financial 
providers.1 This fragmented  financial  experience  can leave  consumers  — and the 
financial  providers  who serve  them  — with blindspots  that can negatively  impact 
efforts  to improve  consumer  financial  wellbeing.  Without  connecting  those  various  
accounts  and sources  of financial  data together,  organizations  canʼt effectively 
deliver  the products  and services  that best meet consumer  needs.  
Comprehensive access to permissioned consumer financial data (such as 
checking  accounts,  credit,  and investment  history)  can help AI models  to better 
understand  financial  behavior,  leading  to more  accurate  and consumer -centric 
guidance  and outcomes.  Historically,  credit  bureaus  have used data like credit  
utilization,  credit  history  length,  payment  history  and public  records  to determine  a 
consumerʼs  creditworthiness.  Today,  AI models  have the opportunity  to better 
assess  creditworthiness  through  the additional  use of alternative  data to create  a 
more  accurate  picture  of creditworthiness.  For example,  the Consumer  Financial 
Protection Bureau 
 CFPB
  highlighted that cashflow data, in addition to traditional 
credit  scores,  can better  assess  a borrowerʼs  creditworthiness,  improving  access 
to credit for underserved populations.2 
AI models  that do not have access  to this type of alternative  data (such  as rent or 
utility  payment  history)  may unfairly  assess  creditworthiness.3 Models  trained  only 
on traditional  credit  history  may favor  applicants  from historically  credit -approved  
1 MX Blog:  “Artificial  Intelligence:  How to Move  from Science  Project  to Value  Add for Banks”  
2 CFPB  Explores  Impact  of Alternative  Data  on Credit  Access  for Consumers  Who Are Credit  Invisible  
3 CFPB  Explores  Impact  of Alternative  Data  on Credit  Access  for Consumers  Who Are Credit  Invisible ; 
see also Increasing  Access  to Affordable  Mainstream  Credit  Using  Alternative  Data. 


3  groups, depriving those without sufficient credit history — despite their actual 
repayment capability. Such AI models operate based on a limited view of 
consumersʼ financial strength, relying on historical patterns rather than a holistic 
understanding of an individualʼs ability to repay a loan.4 
Limited  data can result  in self-fulfilling  prophecies  in AI predictions.  For example, 
an AI model  facilitating  small -business  lending  might  use county -level 
employment  trends  or regional  economic  indicators  as a proxy  for business  risk. 
While  macro  data can be predictive,  relying  on it in isolation  can unfairly  penalize 
healthy  businesses  in struggling  regions.  If lenders  withdraw  from these  regions 
based  on biased  AI predictions,  the local economy  may worsen,  reinforcing  the 
negative trends.  
With more  comprehensive  data (such  as years  of transaction  data)  AI models  can 
distinguish  traditionally  perceived  credit  concerns  from true default  risk. Research 
shows  that fintech  lenders  using  alternative  data (like real-time cash flows  and 
online  transaction  history)  are able to lend successfully  in areas  that traditional  
models  deemed  too risky,  achieving  more  accurate  risk predictions  that lead to 
both increased  credit  availability  and loan performance.5 
Use of broader,  more  complete  datasets  — reflecting  individual  histories  and 
behaviors  based  on permissioned  data — can break  these  cycles  and improve 
outcomes  when  appropriate  guardrails  are in place.  Important  guardrails  for the 
use of large datasets  should  consider  real-time monitoring  systems  to ensure  data 
security  and privacy,  validation  frameworks  to ensure  data accuracy,  including 
appropriate  levels  of human  review,  and ethical  guidelines  to both protect 
consumers  from risks of bias and to ensure  that data is properly  permissioned  for 
training and use.  
AI, when  implemented  properly  and responsibly,  can enhance  economic  resilience  
by providing  more  accurate,  context -sensitive  risk assessments.  Better  data 
inputs  to AI models  can lead to increased  innovation  and reduced  risk of 
inaccurate decisions.  
Consumer -Centric  AI Development  
MX advocates for AI models in finance that prioritize consumer well -being and 
empowerment. AI models should be designed to improve financial health, helping  
 
4 Brookings  Institute:  “Algorithmic  bias detection  and mitigation:  Best practices  and policies  to reduce  
consumer harms”  
5 See Congressional  Research  Service,  Alternative  Data  in Financial  Services.  


4  individuals  save,  borrow,  and invest  more  efficiently  and effectively.  Future  policy 
decisions  impacting  AI should  keep consumer  benefit  at their center.  For instance, 
such decisions  should  enable  more  equitable  lending  decisions  based  on more 
complete  data sets, including  data inputs  like consistent  on-time payments  or 
seasonal income variations.  
In practice,  we envision  that AI models  in financial  services  will evolve  from 
todayʼs  basic insight  tools into proactive  financial  optimization  services.  Many 
consumers  today  receive  automated  insights  from their financial  services 
providers ( e.g., “You  spent  $300  on dining  out last monthˮ  or “You  could  save  $50 
by refinancing this loan.ˮ), but AI models  with “read  accessˮ  to consumer  financial 
data can make  these  kinds  of insights  even more  targeted  and impactful  for 
consumers.  And, while  these  insights  are indeed  helpful,  the approaching  era of 
“write  accessˮ  for AI models  in financial  services  is going  to be truly 
transformative  for consumersʼ  financial  wellbeing.  The concept  of “self-driving  
financeˮ is now emerging, where AI agents automatically manage routine financial 
tasks and even make optimized decisions on behalf of consumers with their 
consent and guidance.6 
For example, an AI agent could automatically move money from a checking 
account to a high -yield savings account whenever a surplus is detected, pay bills 
at the optimal time to avoid fees, continuously shop for better insurance or loan  
rates,  and seamlessly  switch  providers  for the consumerʼs  benefit.  AI model 
access  to, and use of, complete  financial  datasets  for individuals  and businesses 
becomes  even more  important  in this context.  If AI agents  are to take action  on 
behalf  of consumers  or businesses,  it is essential  that the agent  has a 360-degree 
view of the personʼs  or businessʼs  financial  situation  to ensure  the actions  it takes 
are beneficial.  
We are at a critical  moment  in time, where  AI models  are being  trained  by datasets 
that may be incomplete, inherently biased, or based on only publicly available  
data. This will impact  the long term efficacy  of these  models.  Having  ‘traceabilityʼ 
built into model  assessment  — where  itʼs clear which  datasets  were used to train 
models,  will be a layer of protection  and insight  for consumers,  businesses,  and 
regulatory agencies alike.  
Utilizing  proper  safeguards  and requiring  consumer  consent,  AI agents  can act 
like a personalized  financial  advisor  or money  manager  that works  24/7 in the 
 
6 Andreesen  Horowitz:  “Money  on Autopilot:  The future  of AI and Personal  Finance”  


5 consumerʼs  interest,  significantly  reducing  the mental  load of financial  
management. We believe this consumer -centric vision should inform the AI Action 
Plan. 
Policy  Recommendations  
Policymakers  should  encourage  AI developments  that actively  improve  individual  
financial  health  and promote  innovation,  not just those  that make  backend  
processes  more  efficient.  
●Modernize  Financial  Data  Regulations  for Secure  Data  Access : Support
the recent rulemaking implementing Section 1033 of the Dodd -Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, which allows
consumers to share financial data with trusted third parties. Expand Rule
1033ʼs definition and scope of "data providers" to include other "covered
persons"  who possess  financial  data (such  as cryptocurrency,  investment,
loan, and health  savings  data)  that consumers  need to access.  Strengthen
privacy  and security  safeguards  and encourage  secure  data transfer
protocols  like APIs.  Clarify  and expand  Rule 1033ʼs  definition  of "covered
data"  to permit  the use of de-identified  data by authorized  third parties
(subject,  of course,  to the continuing  prohibition  on selling  such data and
the obligation  to maintain  adequate  data security)  to ensure  that
consumer -beneficial AI innovation can continue.
●Improve  Interagency  Collaboration  on Financial  Data  and AI Oversight :
OSTP should facilitate coordination between agencies ( e.g., CFPB, FDIC,
Federal Reserve, FTC
  to ensure consistent standards on data sharing,
model governance, and consumer protection. A formal task force could
align policies to make sure regulations are not redundant or conflicting
across departments.
●Support  AI Risk Assessment  and Mitigation  Frameworks : Encourage  the
adoption of voluntary best practices like the NIST AI Risk Management
Framework to ensure fairness, transparency, and accountability in AI
models.  Regulatory  frameworks  should  be risk-based  allowing  for continued
flexibility  and innovation  while  addressing  high-risk AI applications  with
appropriate scrutiny.
Conclusion  
MX believes  AI can revolutionize  financial  services  in a significant  and positive 
way by offering  more  personalized,  integrated,  and efficient  solutions.  For AI to 
reach  its full, beneficial  potential  in financial  services,  it must be empowered  by 


6  rich, permissioned  data — and guided  by robust  policy  frameworks  that prioritize 
innovation,  consumer  benefit,  and safety.  We encourage  OSTP  to incorporate  our 
recommendations  into the AI Action  Plan to foster  innovation  while  ensuring 
consumer  protections.  By modernizing  data regulations,  fostering  interagency  
collaboration, and implementing AI governance frameworks, the U.S. can lead the 
way in responsible AI deployment in financial services.  
We look forward  to continued  engagement  with the OSTP  as the AI Action  Plan 
develops.  Please  feel free to contact  us for further  discussion  or clarification.  
Sincerely,  
 
Jane Barratt  
Chief Advocacy  Officer 
MX Technologies  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be 
reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution.  


