1 
14 March 2025  
National Science Foundation  
Networking and Information Tech nology Research and Development National Coordination 
Office  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  
Submitted Electronically
The National Association for Behavioral Healthcare ( NABH ) is pleased to provide 
recommendations on the development of an  artificial intelligence (AI) action plan by responding 
to the request for information issued that the  National Science Foundation  issued and Executive 
Order 14179  required .  
NABH supports the effort to develop a coordinated action plan for AI, and we strongly 
recommend that the plan  consider the needs of behavioral healthcare service providers,  
so they, in turn, can protect patients with mental illness and/or substance use disorders 
and delivery first -rate treatment.   
NABH members provide the full continuum of behavioral healthcare services to children, 
adolescents, adults, and older adults with mental health and substance use disorders in 
inpatient behavioral healthcare hospitals and units, residential treatment facili ties, partial 
hospitalization and IOPs, medication -assisted treatment centers, specialty outpatient behavioral 
healthcare programs, and recovery support services in 49 states and Washington, D.C.  
We recommend strongly that a  national plan recognize behavioral healthcare challenges 
affect every American household either directly or indirectly.  In addition , this letter 
highlights  important contextual issue s that national policymakers must consider.  
America’s  Behavioral Healthcare Crisis Continues  
Deaths due to suicide remain far too frequent . The American Foundation for Suicide Prevention 
reports that nearly 50,000  Americans died by suicide  and 1.6 million  Americans attempted  
suicide1 in 2022. Opioid -related deaths also continue to plague the nation: the Centers for 
Disease Control and Preventions  estimates 90,000 Americans died from an opioid overdose  for 
the 12 -month period ending August 2024. Overuse of  synthetic opioids, in particular fentanyl, 
prescription pain relievers, and heroin continues to end lives. Unfortunately, waitlists for mental 
health and substance use disorder treatments remain common and, often, lengthy. In addition, 
the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health estimated economic costs associated 
with the opioid crisis  exceeded  $1 trillion in 2024 .2 
1 https://afsp.org/suicide -statistics/   
2 https://www.cbsnews.com/news/drug -overdose -deaths -opioid -crisis -substance -use/  


 
 
2 
 
The Behavioral Healthcare Field Uses Outd ated Information Technology (IT)   
The behavioral healthcare field’s IT capacity  continue s to lag a generation behind those  of our 
physical healthcare peers. This gap is largely due to behavioral healthcare providers’ exclusion 
from The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act  (HITECH). As the 
HHS Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy/ Office of the National Coordinator for Health 
Information Technology and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration 
recognized through their joint Behavioral HI T Initiative in January 2024, our field today has 
much lower EHR adoption rates, as well as a lack of EHR developers creating IT systems for 
the behavioral healthcare patient population.  
 
Today, most inpatient psychiatric facilities (IPFs) and other behavioral healthcare providers lack 
the capacity to exchange patient health information interoperably with external clinical partners. 
Also, while some psychiatric hospitals and units have HIT systems that comply with the 
2015 HHS standards for data exchange and other required functionality, most own non -
compliant systems that are used primarily to bill payers electronically, with some 
capability for basic prescription management. However, many lack the capability to send 
or receive interoperable data. In fact, many in our field still rely, at least in part, on faxes, 
emails, and phone calls.  
 
AI in Behavioral Healthcare Is Growing and Will Continue to Become More Important  
This request for information specifically calls for policy recommendations related to multiple AI 
priority areas3. As confirmed by two 2024 AI surveys of our members, we understand traditional 
behavioral health care providers are not leading AI  development . Therefore, rather than 
addressing these technical issues, we submit comments to raise awareness and cautions for AI 
policymakers about what smaller healthcare providers – including rural healthcare providers and 
tribal organizations – require to ensure AI  is implemented effectively at their organizations.    
 
To share what we know so far, we see that our members are focused  presently  on using AI to 
improve care quality by:  
• augmenting the role of diagnostic and other decision -making by clinical practitioners ; 
• raising the  efficiency of business operations such as medical record documentation -
related functions ; and  
• improv ing workforce retention  through related reduction in administrative burden.  
 
With regard to the scope of AI rollout, our AI survey results indicate that one -third or fewer of our 
members are using AI. In addition, we note the growing use of telephone apps and online 
services being used, in part with AI functions, to provide behavioral healthcare services 
 
3 RFI’s Specified AI Topics : Hardware and chips, data centers, energy consumption and efficiency, model 
development, open source development, application and use, explainability and assurance of AI model 
outputs, cybersecurity, data privacy and security throughout the lifecycle of AI system development and 
deployment  relative to cyberattacks , risks, regulation and governance, technical and safety standards, 
national security and defense, research and development, education and workforce, innovation and 
competition, intellectual property, procurement, international collaboration, and export co ntrols.  
 


3 
that appear, at least in part, to fall outside of evidence-based care. These platfor ms can 
be purchased by individu als who want support related to actual an d perceived 
depression, anxiety, PTSD, psychosis an d ADHD. We note that some of these 
prescription digital therapeutics are subject t o FDA review.  
Cybersecurit y Concerns 
On March 7, NABH submitted comments to the U.S. Health and Human Service s Department’s 
Office of Civil Right s about a proposed rule to modernize the provision s in the Health Insurance 
Portabilit y and Accountabilit y Act of 1996 (HIPAA) to strengthe n cybersec urity protection s for 
electroni c protected health information (ePHI). I n general, our comments on thi s rule expressed 
our appreciatio n for the efforts to strengthen protection s against ever-increasing cybersecurity 
threats. In addition, ou r comments cautioned that the proposed rul e did not account for 
the limited HIT capacity in the behavioral healthc are field. For exampl e, the proposal’s 
suggestion s about ri sk assessment, planning for future securit y incidents, an d multiple 
additional technical provisions, all exceed the capacit y of the majority of behavioral healthcare 
providers.  
We note our cybersecurity lette r to highlight o ur strong recommendation, which also is 
equally pertinent to this RFI, that policymaker s consider equally important and less-
resourced stakeholders when building modern infrastructu re for the country. To thi s end, 
NABH is eager t o facilitate communication between behavioral healthcare leader s and your 
office’s effort to develop a national AI plan. 
Than k you for considering NABH’ s recommendations about this pending action plan. We look 
forward to supporting and working with you and your staff to address these issues. Please 
contact me if you have questions.  
Sincerely, 
Shawn Coughlin  
Presiden t and CEO  


