March 15 , 2025 
Re: Request For Information  (90 FR 9088)  
Netw orking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD)  National 
Coordination Office, National Science Foundation  (90 FR 9088)  
To Whom It May Concern,  
On behalf o f America’s 3,069 counties, parishes, and boroughs, the National Association of 
Counties ( NACo ) thanks the W hite House Office of Science and Technology Policy for the 
opportunity to comment on the request for information from public stakeholders on the 
development of a national artiﬁcial intelligence action plan in concert with Executive Order 
14179 titled Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artiﬁcial Intelligence. Counties, 
as direct owners and operators of critical infrastructure and providers of essential local 
government services, have a vested interest in shaping artiﬁcial intelligence policy, resources and intergovernmental information- sharing to ensure responsible adoption of 
the technology in public services, operations and the workforce.  
NACo is the only national organization representing America’s 3,069 county governments. 
Counties provide vital public services to over 300 million residents across the nation, including the administration of the nation’s elections and the provisioning of emerge ncy 
response services. Counties are also major owners of critical physical infrastructure, including 45 percent of public road miles, 38 percent of bridges, more than one -third of 
public airports, and 40 percent of public transportation systems.  
NACo’s Artiﬁcial Intelligence Exploratory Committee produced its seminal  report, the  AI 
County Compass , in July 2024 to further explore the role of generative artiﬁcial intelligence 
for local governments. The comprehensive report serves as a core resource in providing 
education and guidance to counties seeking to learn more about generative artiﬁcial 
intelligence and how to responsibly integrate the technology into different operations and 
services.  
In concert with the ﬁndings of NACo’s Artiﬁcial Intelligence Exploratory Committee and 
other policy priorities, co unties  urge the inclusion of seven key action items listed below in 
the nation’s artiﬁcial intelligence (AI ) action plan to ensure comprehensive and equitable 
implementation .  
1.Esta blish an Intergovernmental Governance Structure : Counties  support
establishing  an intergovernmental governance structure that addresses the various


uses of generative AI across different sectors. This structure will facilitate better 
monitoring and regulation of AI technologies, create  a system for threat monitoring 
and analysis, and ensur e that intergovernmental partners can remain informed and 
abreast of the rapidly burgeoning AI sector.  This governance structure can be  the 
creation of a new advisory committee  or re -purposing of an existing advisory 
committee with required local government participation  dedicated to AI, as well as 
other  public and pr ivate entity  membership . The administration should also 
immediately consider re -instating funding for previously existing intergovernmental 
security information sharing regimes, such as the Multi-State Information Sharing 
Analysis Center  (MS -ISAC)  and the Election Infrastructure Information Sharing 
Analysis Center  (EI-ISAC) , that prove d invaluable for counties across the country . 
The MS-ISAC and EI -ISAC  both offer ed novel content and technical assistance for 
small and rural counties that is essential to fostering a collaborative, intergovernmental approach to cybersecurity.  
2.Support Workforce Development Funding Initiatives Geared T owards Artiﬁcial
Intelligence: Counties  urge the provision of direct funding assistance  or agency
resource development to promote digital literacy  and workforce skills in AI for the
workforce . This funding w ould  support counties, particularly small and rural ones,
and key community anchor institutions in bridging the digital divide and fosteringworkforce development  initiatives that are responsive to the ever -evolving
landscape of technological innovation in the workplace .
3.Impro ve Support Mechanisms for Local Compliance : Counties  are managing an
increased burden with respect to funding technology upgrades and must dedicateincreasing staff and work hours to priorities ranging from  making security
improvements to meet cybersecurity insurance requirements  to corralling critical
infrastructure and utility partners to upgrade existing on-premises infrastructure to
meet security requirements , to name a few. As technology continues to be
integrated into public sector operations and  constituent services and programs,
counties call for the executive branch to consider  developing new programs at the
agency and sub -agency level that can support local agenc y and government entities
and recipients seeking to offer services or enhance operations through AI  by
supporting modernization efforts  and  streamlin ing reporting requirements for
cybersecurity incidents and breaches .
4.Elections Administration Support : As principal administrators of elections,
counties are at risk of fac ing signiﬁcant challenges posed by generative AI. Counties
request increased funding and technical support to mitigate the risks of AI -driven
disinformation and ensure the safe administration of elections , including through
the preservation of technical support programs for counties at the CybersecurityInfrastructure and Security Agency  (CISA)  and the Elections Assistance
Commission  (EAC).


5.Create and Disseminate Consumer Protection Resources : Counties  support
strengthening of funding and oversight authority at independent agencies  which
regulate critical infrastructure areas and oversee consumer protection initiatives ,
such as the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) . Such funding and oversight authority designations can help to
combat negative use cases of AI, such as  AI-generated robocalls or  other consumer
fraud activities. These measures will help protect local governments and residents
by keeping critical inf rastructure secu re and disincentivize bad actors from utilizing
AI to harm consumers .
6.Promote Transparency and Disclosure Requirements for Public Sector Vendors
That Protects Proprietary Information : Counties  advocate for the establishment of
guidelines at the federal, state and local levels that increase transparency in the useof GenAI models for all vendors associated with the public sector, without imposingonerous requirements on developers of AI models. Furthermore, procurement
guidelines for AI solutions in the public sector should be crafted by an
intergovernmental, public and privat e sector committee that seeks to balance
transparency in the use of AI, disclosures on the use of data, and robust securitymeasures to protect services and operations.
7.Support Public Sector Adoption of Data Privacy Standards : Counties  emphasize
the importance of adopting robust data privacy and governance standards across
all levels of government. Counties hold sensitive data and require standards to
minimize security risks.  The federal government should pursue guidelines on data
privacy practices in the public sector that can be disseminated to state and localgovernmental entities, without preempting existing state laws or local guidelines.
In conclusion, we believe that these policy priorities are essential for the responsible and 
ethical use of AI technologies in counties across the nation. We urge you to consider these recommendations and support the necessary legislative and regulatory me asures to 
achieve these goals.  
Thank you for your attention to this important matter.  
Sincerely,  
Matt Ch ase  
CEO/Executive Director  
NOTE: This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or conﬁdential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  


