From: Nadia Akrabawi
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Friday, February 7, 2025 2:15:56 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
To Whom It May Concern:  
Hello! My name is Nadia, I am 44 years old and starting over once again. I recently decided to finish my bachelor's
degree in business management, however, after continuing to hear about AI Technology and how it will be taking usinto the future I decided a few days ago to change my degree to IT with learning as much as I can about AI.
 
Let's talk about the future. A lot of people in and around my age (40's ish) feel lost or unsettled about their future. Indiscussing my degree change with friends, I learned many of us are very curious and also very clueless about AI.We are scared of becoming irrelevant as we lose touch with everchanging technology. We have Ideas however, andlots of them about what we would do with this technology, and where we would like it to go.
 
We are going to be the generation in charge soon. We will have to lead and teach the generations below us about thelatest and greatest technology. We will be the ones that have to sustain the position of being a leader in AItechnology in a safe but also progressive way.
 
SO HERE IS MY PROPOSAL:This may seem wild but I believe if you gave people in this age bracket (35-55 maybe) a few years (4 since that isTrumps Term) to get free Information Technology Degrees, or AI Certifications if they have one already, this willalleviate and elevate this country.IF that is not possible may some stellar tax breaks for those taking initiatives to get these degrees or certifications?
 
HOW THIS WILL HELP:-You will be giving opportunities to a lost generation of people who have been struggling with surviving and stayingrelevant, yet are supposed to be the next leaders and teachers-You will be recruiting into the AI industry many millions of minds that have brilliant ideas mixed with the rightamount of life experience.-You will be setting up the country for generations to come by educating and inspiring people to continue to learnand grow.-You will deter those who are right now looking into learning AI with these fake and BS internet "8 Week" coursesthat could create tons of private citizens who use their ideas and talents for private and corrupt gain. This would helpget people into the industry in a legitimate way through internships and recruitments alike, so we are more unified asa country. Also, all of those degree minded individuals with their brilliant ideas (and it only takes 1 to change theworld) would be working for you, not themselves.
I truly believe there is not much downside to this proposal, the cost of educating the future will pay for itself.Thank You for Your Time and Consideration,
Nadia A.
 
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosurerequirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


