Charles Crain  
Managing Vice President , 
Policy  
1 
March 14, 2025  
Michael Kratsios  David Sacks  
Acting Director  Artificial Intelligence and Crypto Czar  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  Executive Office of the President  
Executive Office of the President  The White House  
The White House  
Re: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
Dear Acting Director Kratsios and Mr. Sacks,  
The National Association of Manufacturers (“NAM”) welcomes the opportunity to provide 
comments to the White House in response to its Request for Information (“RFI”) on the 
development of an artificial intelligence ( “AI”) Action Plan.1 
The NAM is the largest manufacturing association in the United States, representing 
manufacturers of all sizes across all 50 states and in every industrial sector. Manufacturing 
contributes $2.93 trillion to the U.S. economy annually. It employs nearly 13 million people in the 
U.S., who earn on average almost $103,000, i.e., 18.5% more than in all private nonfarm
industries. The NAM advocates for a policy agenda that helps manufacturers compete in the
global economy and create jobs across the United States.2
1.How Manufacturers Are Using AI
In May 2024, the NAM published “Working Smarter: How Manufacturers Are Using Artificial 
Intelligence .”3 This report explains how manufacturers use AI in a myriad ways , which has made 
AI integral to modern manufacturing and put manufacturers at the forefront of developing and 
implementing AI systems.  That is why manufacturers enthusiastically support the President’s 
goal “to sustain and enhance America’s global AI dominance in order to promote human 
flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security.”4 
1 Federal Register Vol. 90, No. 24, Thursday, February 6, 2025, available at https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR -2025 -02-
06/pdf/2025 -02305.pdf   
2 See Facts About Manufacturing, available at https://nam.org/manufacturing -in-the-united -states/facts -about -manufacturing -
expanded/  
3 Available at https://nam.org/wp -content/uploads/2024/05/NAM -AI-Whitepaper -2024 -1.pdf   
4 Section 2 of Executive Order 14179  of January 23, 2025 on Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence , 
available at https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential -actions/2025/01/removing -barriers -to-american -leadership -in-artificial -
intelligence/   


2 The below are examples of how m anufacturers use AI  in their operations and in their products : 
•The impact of AI on the manufacturing shop floor is and will continue to be a game -
changer. The digitalization of the shop floor —the embedding of sensors into
manufacturing equipment and their connection to high -speed communication networks —
enables the collection and transmission of large amounts of data about every aspect of
production operations. AI systems can then pro cess this data to give manufacturers new
insights, which allows these operations to be designed and carried out in an optimal
fashion. This means more efficient shop floor operations, optimal equipment
maintenance, enhanced quality of outputs, better cost control and more sustainable
production processes.
•The use of AI in relation to shop floor operations also yields significant benefits for
operational and worker safety, both by assisting in the design of inherently safer
production processes and in helping prevent accidents by alerting operators in real -time
to mistakes and dangers.  AI systems can also be used to onboard new employees and
train new and existing employees .
•AI augments manufacturers’ product research, development and design, allowing them
to bring better products to market faster and more cheaply.
•Manufacturers use AI systems to optimize how they manage their supply chains. This
makes them more resilient and allows them to prevent production stoppages or
shortages and to efficiently deliver products to customers.
•AI systems can enhance products  by improving their performance  and powering novel
and intelligent product features  that revolutionize the customer/user experience .
•AI can also enabl e manufacturers to provide new levels of after-sale customer support
and product maintenance. Modern, connected products can generate data about their
use and performance, which AI can analyze to predict rather than merely react to
anomalies, alerting the user and preventing costly, inconvenient and potentially
dangerous problems.
The range and importance of uses of AI —transforming every aspect of the core of 
manufacturers’ operations , and the products they create —make it clear that AI has become 
integral to manufacturing. With the right federal policies, U.S. manufacturers will continue to 
devise new and exciting ways to leverage AI to innovate, lead and stay ahead of their global 
competitors.  
2.The Impact of AI on the Manufacturing Workforce
Manufacturers face a shortage of skilled labor. First, the industry had 4 28,000 unfilled 
manufacturing jobs in December 2024. Simply put, manufacturers’ challenge is to find workers 
to fill open jobs to meet customer demand.  
Second, it is critical not to conflate AI and automation: automation is for straightforward and 
highly repeatable processes that do not depend on sophisticated data analytics to be 
performed; by contrast, AI is much more cognitive and depends on extracting  insights from data 
to support decision -making in unique situations.  


3 Manufacturers are keen to maintain the work of people, not computers, at the center of their 
operations. This “human -in-the-loop” approach means that manufacturers most often use AI to 
complement and augment the work of humans in the workplace, to make the m more efficient, 
and to support their decision -making while still prioritizing human experience and ingenuity.  
As a result, AI in manufacturing requires a workforce with improved education and training:  
•Manufacturers need more workers with higher education degrees in data science and
computer science to develop and deploy AI systems.
•Manufacturers need employees with improved, AI -ready knowledge and skills
everywhere, from product designers and developers, to supply chain managers, to the
workers operating on the shop floor. In particular, manufacturers hire most production
workers from career and technical education institutions, like community colleges.
Manufacturers often partner with these institutions to ensure that the curriculum is
regularly updated to fit their workforce needs. When it comes to AI , that means critical
thinking, problem solving and understanding concepts of data input and output.
Manufacturers work closely with career and technical education institutions to ensure
that they graduate workers who have the skills our industry needs.
As manufacturers continue to struggle to fill jobs, they need more workers to fill them —and they 
need more of them to be AI -ready.  
3.The P olicy Implications of the Use of AI by Manufactur ers
Taking a Pro-AI Regulatory Approach  
The growing number and variety of use -cases of AI in manufacturing , on the shop floor and 
throughout manufacturers’ operations , require a regulatory environment that is optimized for the 
development and deployment of these groundbreaking technolog ies. This is why manufacturers 
welcomed and strongly support the Administration’s decision to develop , as Vice President 
Vance put it,  “an AI action plan that avoids an overly precautionary regulatory regime while 
ensuring that all Americans benefit from the technology and its transformative potential.”5 The 
Vice President was entirely correct to set the development and use of innovati ve technology  as 
the paramount objective . In this spirit, we make the following four recommendations.  
First, manufacturers recommend that the AI Action Plan direct federal regulators to review  the 
statutory and regulatory framework s they maintain and enforce. These reviews  would yield two 
types of insights. They would allow regulators to identify regulations, in particular product 
regulations, that were enacted before the advent of AI and that might prevent manufacturers 
from developing and offering AI -enabled products . Regulators should then examine whether the 
policy goals of the regulations in question are appropriate in the AI age, and if so if they can be 
attained without inhibiting the use of AI.  Conversely , these reviews would also identify the 
existing , “pre-AI” regulations that are in fact compatible with AI : most uses of AI correspond to 
tasks and objectives (e.g. operational safety, or after -sale customer support) that industry has 
faced for a long time and that are thus highly likely to have already been addressed by existing 
laws and regulations. This mean s that companies likely can apply existing rules to their uses of 
AI, obviating the need for new, duplicative requirements.  
5 Address by Vice President J.D. Vance to the Paris Artificial Intelligence Action Summit , February 11, 2025 . 


4 Second, AI is context -specific, so “AI regulation ” should be too: the diversity of use -cases of AI 
makes manufacturers particularly sensitive to any policy or regulatory approach to AI that is 
one-size-fits-all. Indeed, an underlying AI model  could be used in a host of applications with 
different purposes and risk profiles. Manufacturers recommend that the AI Action Plan direct 
federal regulators , if and when they have determined that a new regulat ion is indeed necessary  
(see previous paragraph) , to focus not on the AI  technology  itself—be it how it is developed or 
how it operates —but on how that technology is used : a regulation should apply to a specific use 
of AI and be appropriately calibrated  (with clear and narrow definitional language)  for context 
and risk,6 rather than impose inflexible and ill -fitting requirements that would hamper innovation.  
Third, focusing risk-based norms (whether regulation or standards) on specific uses of AI  tends 
to shift  more of the direct compliance burden towards the company that deploy s and uses an AI 
system . To discharge that burden, the deployer needs to scrutinize how it uses the system and 
what the system’s outputs are . But the system’s performance does not depend solely on how it 
is used : it also depends on how it was developed and trained  by its vendor , and the deployer 
therefore has a critical need  for visibility into the system’s development  and training .7 That 
visibility  depends on seamless collaborat ion with the developer . Given that many AI 
technologies and their uses are evolving continuously and rapidly , AI development practices  and 
AI system functionalities  (and transparency and documentation around development and 
functionalities)  and developer -deployer (also known as vendor -customer) relations are also still 
evolving . Manufacturers believe that this is an area that would significantly benefit from industry 
best practices  and recommend that the AI Action Plan direct NIST to work with federal 
regulators , as appropriate,  and industry to develop such best practices and direct NIST to 
promote them within international standards organizations (e.g., ISO/IEC ). Importantly, t his 
would also help the U.S. reach the goal set by the President in E.O. 14179 of AI-fueled 
economic competitiveness , because it would incentivize companies to increase their adoption of 
AI systems  by increasing their trust in these systems and in their own ability to withstand 
regulatory scrutiny . 
Fourth , regulators must right -size any eventual  compliance burden associated with AI 
regulation. The ubiquitous use of AI throughout modern manufacturing, as well as 
manufacturing’s dependence on innovation, underscore the need for rules that enable rather 
than hinder manufacturers’ development and ado ption of AI systems. Notably, the overwhelming 
majority of manufacturers are small and medium -sized companies,8 which are particularly 
affected by regulatory burdens —indeed, smaller companies already bear a disproportionate 
share of the industry’s regulatory burden, with federal compliance costs surpassing $50,000 per 
employee per year for small manufacturers.9 Limiting compliance burdens associated with AI -
specific policies will ensure that small and medium -sized manufacturers are not left behind as AI 
continues to transform manufacturing . Manufacturers recommend that the AI Action Plan include 
two directives to federal regulators  to minimize compliance burden s: allow companies to self -
assess their compliance, rather than requiring that they provide attestations or undergo third -
party audits, other than in exceptional cases; and ensure that regulatory compliance burdens 
6 As an example , the use of AI in research and development (“R&D”) will, in most cases, create little to no risk and thus warrant little 
to no regulatory restraints . 
7 AI development and deployment is of course  often not binary, with one company acting as developer and another as deployer : a 
single company can be both developer and deployer , or a deployer can be also partly a developer (e.g., if it uses an open source  or 
open weights AI system ). Finally, in the case of an open source AI system there may not be a single entity that is the vendor, as the 
system may have been developed and made publicly available by a community of open source developers . That said, the issue 
remains that the company that deploys the AI system needs visibility into the system’s development.  
8 See point 3 of Facts About Manufacturing, available at https://nam.org/manufacturing -in-the-united -states/facts -about -
manufacturing -expanded/   
9 The Cost of Federal Regulation to the U.S. Economy, Manufacturing and Small Business, by Nicole V. and W. Mark Crain, 
October 2023, available at https://nam.org/wp -content/uploads/2023/11/NAM -3731 -Crains -Study -R3-V2-FIN.pdf   


5 can be discharged by implementing consensus -based industry standards and best practices, 
because the y are flexible , adaptive, risk-based , use  case -specific  and technology -neutral.  
Enhanc ing U.S. Global AI Policy Leadership  
Enhanc ing America’s global AI dominance  will also depend on sustaining the effort started by 
the Vice President in Paris to make innovation the cornerstone of the global policy environment 
for AI . This in turn will help manufacturers reap the economies of scale of a globally aligned 
regulatory environment .  
Manufacturers thus recommend that the AI Action Plan direct the appropriate departments and 
agencies to develop and execute a strategy of international engagement  that keeps foreign 
markets open to the use of American AI and supports the development of national policies and 
international industry standards and best practices that accelerate AI innovation  and adoption . 
Developing  the Manufacturing Workforce  of the AI Age  
As explained above, the impact of AI on the manufacturing workforce is twofold . Manufacturers 
therefore recommend that the AI Action Plan endorse a dual workforce strategy.  
First, to develop and deploy AI systems , manufacturers need more workers with higher 
education degrees in data science and computer science . The AI Action plan should make 
enhance d access to , and support for the development of , science, technology, engineering and 
mathematics (STEM) education programs throughout the country , at both the K -12 and higher 
education levels , a national priority . But the AI Action Plan should also recognize that  to become  
the global leader in AI our country did not solely rely on its  U.S.-born STEM graduates —it also 
needed to leverage an influx of foreign -born STEM graduates. Therefore, to remain  that global 
AI leader the U.S. needs to continue to attract and retain these foreign -born STEM graduates by  
expanding high skilled immigration , e.g. by increasing the allowable number of advanced 
degree STEM graduates for employment -based visa categories, in particular among lawful 
permanent residents.  
Second, to understand and use AI systems, manufacturers need employees with improved, AI -
ready knowledge and skills  throughout their companies . The AI Action Plan should commit the 
Administration to  support the development of this AI -ready workforce by work ing with Congress 
to support the career and technical education institutions that train this workforce.  In particular, 
the NAM supports the bipartisan and bicameral Stronger Workforce for America Act, which 
would reauthorize the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and was passed by the House 
of Representatives on a bipartisan basis in the 118th Congress. This bill would increase funding 
available to the manufacturing industry to upskill, recruit and retain its workforce, and supports 
industry working together and with training institutions to cr eate collaborative solutions.  
Addressing Energy and Permitting Reform  
One of the key drivers of the U.S.’s c ontinued progress in the development and adoption of AI is 
the availability  of electricity, and the reliability and resilience of the power grid.  There are 
concerns about  the strain put on the grid from retirements in traditional power -generating units 
and the expansion of data centers, which are highly energy intensive. To address this issue, 
industry  develops, builds and deploys solutions to regularly improve the energy efficiency of 


6 data centers , not only for their computing but also for their cooling .10 Nevertheless, a  resilient, 
modern grid is required to enable the historic growth in data centers —which in turn would 
contribute to growth in the development and adoption of AI . That is why manufacturers 
recommend that the AI Action Plan commit the Administration to work ing with Congress to 
address energy and permitting reform.  
The NAM strongly supports an all -of-the-above approach to the nation’s energy portfolio —one 
that utilizes our abundant, clean and affordable natural gas resources; taps into the nation’s 
significant mineral wealth to drive a responsible energy transition; supports existing baseload 
resources like  nuclear power; and provides pathways to commercialization for nascent 
technologies like hydrogen , advanced nuclear reactors , and geothermal . All these energy 
sources will be critical to ensuring the successful build -out of data centers in America while 
powering the other energy -intensive sectors of the economy.  
Permitting Reform  
There are challenges with permitting the energy generation projects that will harness these 
energy sources, along with building out the transmission and distribution infrastructure to get the 
power to customers. As such, manufacturers recommend that the AI Action Plan endorse the 
following permitting reform principles:  
•Expediting judicial review ;
•Accelerating the permit process for needed energy infrastructure, including more
transmission lines, pipelines and permanent carbon sequestration sites ;
•Providing regulatory certainty ;
•Creating enforceable deadlines ;
•Increasing the use of categorical exclusions to the National Environmental Policy Act
process ;
•Unlocking access to domestic critical materials, including on federal lands ;
•Streamlining the Clean Water Act .
Existing Energy Generation  
Ensuring the continued affordability and reliability  of the nation’s current energy generation mix 
and the existing technologies that make it up is important and closely related to the need for 
comprehensive permitting reform discussed above.  
Data centers and many manufacturing operations require uninterrupted energy sources to 
ensure economic viability and safety. Traditional nuclear -generating stations (in the form of 
large -scale light water reactors) are one source of this baseload energy. T hough the economics 
and permitting of such new nuclear generation have been difficult, manufacturers recommend 
that the AI Action Plan commit the Administration to working with stakeholders to identify ways 
that the projected increase in demand growth can be leveraged to lower the cost curve of 
traditional light-water reactors.  
In addition, the United States continues to add significant amounts of new renewable energy 
generation to the grid, which the NAM welcomes. However, these energy sources do not yet 
10 According to McKinsey & Company, cooling accounts for some 4 0% of a data center’s energy consumption : see Investing in the 
Rising Data Center Economy, available at https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/technology -media -and-telecommunications/our -
insights/investing -in-the-rising -data-center -economy   


7 provide adequate  baseload capacity. As such, manufacturers recommend that the AI Action 
Plan commit the Administration to working with all stakeholders to examine the key role natural 
gas has and must play in meeting growing energy demand in a cost -effective way. Specifically, 
we must examine natural gas’s role as a source of baseload power to the data center industry 
as well as a complement and backup to intermittent renewable generation sources.  
New Generation Technology  
Additionally, newer energy sources  to meet growing demand —these are primarily clean 
hydrogen and small, modular and advanced nuclear reactors —remain prohibitively costly. To 
utilize hydrogen as an affordable energy source, significant work remains on the production side 
of the equation; equally important is the need to have workable guidance for hydrogen 
production incentives and to address the nation’s pipeline and storage systems.  
Manufacturers recommend that the AI Action Plan direct the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to 
expeditiously and safely license small, modular and advanced nuclear reactors, to allow the 
best of these new energy generation sources and technologies to come to market and be 
commercialized to bring down their cost curve.  In this respect, the NAM support ed the 
enactment of the ADVANCE Act  which accelerate s the development and commercialization of 
advanced nuclear reactor technologies.  
Transmission Policy  
Given the issues raised by c ost allocation and transmission siting policies , manufacturers 
recommend that the AI Action Plan commit the Administration to working with all relevant 
stakeholders, including state and local governments, utilities, consumers, generators and others 
within the manufacturing industry , to develop a robust understanding of the needs of data 
centers for additional  transmission capacity, while ensuring appropriate fairness in allocating the 
associated project and operational costs.  
Protecting Personal Data  
Data continues to be a critical input into, and biproduct of, modern manufacturing , and while 
many uses of AI in manufacturing do not implicate personally identifiable information, some do. 
Maintaining the privacy and security of personal data is thus important to manufacturers . 
That is why manufacturers recommend that the AI Action Plan commit the Administration to 
working with Congress to pass a national privacy law that fully preempts the growing patchwork 
of state laws , protects individuals’ privacy, and provide s much needed legal clarity to support 
continued innovation and competitiveness. Any such standard should take a risk -based 
approach to data privacy while also protecting manufacturers from frivolous litigation . Most 
importantly, in the contex t of AI, such a national privacy law can and must  enable innovation and 
commerce by enshrining the right of innovators and entrepreneurs to use personal data to 
improve existing products and services  and develop new ones.11 
11 For more details on such a federal law , see the letter sent by the NAM and other trade associations to the House Energy and 
Commerce and Senate Commerce Committees, available at 
https://documents.nam.org/tech/20250128%20Coalition_PrivacyDay_SenateCommerceHouseEC.pdf   


8 Supporting U.S. Manufacturing of AI Chips  
President Trump has rightly recognized the geostrategic importance of increas ing the U.S. 
share of the global design and manufacturing of semiconductors, which is also o ne of the key 
drivers of its continued progress in the development and adoption of AI , and of its continued 
global dominance in AI . Leading -edge logic chips, as well as high bandwidth memory chips, are 
the essential microelectronic foundation for AI. Onshore manufacturing capacity in both is 
therefore needed to secure U.S. AI leadership and continued innovation : as Vice President 
Vance put it , “The U.S. possesses all components across the full AI stack, including advanced 
semiconductor design, frontier algorithms, and, of course, transformational applications. Now 
the computin g power this stack requires is integral to advancing AI technology, and to safeguard 
America’s advantage, the Trump administration will ensure the most powerful AI systems are 
built in the U.S. with American -designed and manufactured chips.”12 
In his first term, the President led the way by convincing key U.S. and foreign chip 
manufacturers to increase their U.S. production capacity , and his Administration worked closely 
with Congress to craft the CHIPS for America Act . The President’s leadership  and the federal 
programs he initiated  have spurred hundreds of billions of dollars of private sector investment in 
U.S. semiconductor manufacturing and innovation, which strengthen s our national security by 
onshor ing and secur ing the supply of semiconductors that are a key input for U.S. AI  leadership . 
This will deliver broad and long -term benefits to the economy and people of the U.S. That is why 
manufacturers recommend that the AI Action Plan urge the Commerce Department to 
implement in a timely manner  the agreements it has reached with various chip manufacturers 
and commit the Administration to working with Congress to renew Section 48D of the Internal 
Revenue Code, which establishes the Advanced Manufacturing Investment Credit  and is set to 
expire at the end of 2026.  
Providing Federal Support for Domestic AI Innovation  
Manufacturing is the most innovation -dependent sector of the economy, accounting for 53% of 
private -sector R&D .13 That makes manufacturers particularly sensitive to effective  federal laws 
and policies  that support America’s innovation ecosystem .  
First among these is the tax treatment of industry’s R&D  investments. For 70 years and u ntil 
2022, the  federal tax code allowed companies to immediately expense their R&D spending. The 
expiration of this provision has forced companies to amortize  it, i.e. claim fractions of their R&D 
tax deduction each year over several years . This negatively impacts companies’ cash flow , 
making R&D spending more expensive : after growing at 6.6% per year on average over the five 
years before the amortization requirement took effect, R&D  spending in the U.S. increased only 
3.5% over the course of 2022 and decreased 0.1% in 2023 , while in 2022 the European Union’s 
R&D growth surpassed America’s R&D growth for the first time in nearly a decade and, even 
more worrisome, China’s R&D growth tripled that of the United States.14 Manufacturers 
recommend that the AI Action Plan call on Congress to reinstate the longstanding, pro -
innovation policy of immediate R&D expensing.  
12 Address by Vice President J.D. Vance to the Paris Artificial Intelligence Action Summit, February 11, 2025.  
13 See Facts About Manufacturing, available at https://nam.org/manufacturing -in-the-united -states/facts -about -manufacturing -
expanded/  
14 See EU Industrial R&D Investment Scoreboard (2023), available at https://op.europa.eu/en/publication -detail/ -
/publication/1e5c204f -9da6 -11ee -b164 -01aa75ed71a1/language -en 


9 Manufacturers also recommend that the AI Action Plan ensure that the U.S. does not again find 
itself in a position of overwhelming dependence on offshore design and manufacturing of critical 
inputs of the AI ecosystem , as it has with semiconductors .15 This could be done by directing the 
appropriate federal agencies to regularly review the  evolution of the supply of these inputs and 
anticipate when the U.S. might reach problematic levels of dependence on foreign suppliers.  
Maintain ing a Level -Playing Field Between Open  and Proprietary AI Solutions  
Manufacturers have long called for policy approaches that promote their continued access to 
the widest possible choice of technologies , including AI technologies .  
In this context, access to AI models that are open source and /or have  open weights (hereafter 
referred to together as “open AI models ”) enables manufacturers’ development of new AI 
capabilities and use of a wide range of AI innovations . The cost of developing and training an AI 
model can be considerable, if not prohibitive. The availability of open AI models allows any 
interested party to develop new AI capabilities without having to incur these costs. This lowers 
barriers to entry in AI development by providing new opportunities for AI innovation. This means 
greater competition among, and choice between, deve lopers of AI systems.  Critically, enhanced 
access to open AI models will benefit not just tech entrepreneurs, but also companies 
throughout the manufacturing sector.  This advances the goal set by the President  for his 
Administration’s AI Action Plan. As such, manufacturers recommend that the Action Plan 
support access to both open and proprietary AI solutions . 
* * * * * *  
As AI has become integral to modern manufacturing , manufacturers were heartened that the 
President made the sustainment and enhance ment of  America’s global AI dominance  a priority 
of his Administration in his first week in office.  The NAM looks forward to continuing to support 
the Administration’s championing of American AI and manufacturing  in America . 
Sincerely,  
Charles Crain  
Managing Vice President, Policy  
15 While AI systems can operate on a variety of computing environments, they are most often found in data centers  that are 
designed to handle the unique demands of AI workloads  and whose key components include: servers that feature AI chips ; AI-
optimized storage ; high-bandwidth and low -latency networking  and cabling , in particular fiber optics ; high performance , energy -
efficient cooling systems;  and AI software (models and applications) and AI -specific software frameworks . 


