1 March 11, 2025 
Suzanne H. Plimpton  
Reports Clearance Officer  
National Science Foundation  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue   
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Re: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence 
(AI) Action Plan  FR Doc. 2025 -02305  
Dear Ms. Plimpton, 
On February 6th, 2025, on behalf of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, Networking 
and Information Technology Research and Development and the National Coordination Office in 
the National Science Foundation published in the Federal Register, a Request for Information 
[RFI] seeking public input on priority policy actions that should be included in the 
Administration’s new Artificial Intelligence Action Plan. The responses could be on topics such 
as explainability  and assurance of AI model outputs, cybersecurity, data priv acy and security 
throughout the lifecycle of AI system development and deployment, risks, in addition to 
regulation and governance .  
The National Association of Mutual Insurance Companies (“NAMIC”)  is the largest 
property/casualty insurance trade group with a diverse membership consisting of over 1,300  
member companies, including six of the top ten property/casualty insurers in the United States. 
The association supports local and regional mutual insurance companies on main streets across 
America as well as many of the country’s largest national insurers. NAMIC member companies 
write $391 billion in annual premiums and represent 6 1 percent of homeowners, 48 percent of 
automobile, and 25 percent of the business insurance markets. Through its advocacy programs 
NAMIC promotes public policy solutions that benefit member companies and the policyholders 
they serve and fosters greater understanding and recognition of the unique alignment of inte rests 
between management and policyholders of mutual companies.  
Support Innovation and Development of AI  
NAMIC fully supports the innovation and development of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and data 
usage that has the potential to benefit consumers and the industry alike and believes any laws or 
regulations governing AI in insurance should promote such benefit. Artificial intelligence 
technology is another tool in the insurer’s toolbox to be leveraged to increase efficiency,  


 
2 
  
 
accuracy, and benefit to insurance consumers.  As a result, NAMIC encourages policy actions that 
support such innovation and development of AI to benefit consumers , and to avoid overly 
burdensome regulatory regimes that stifle such innovation and subsequent benefit.  
Avoid Dual and Conflicting Regulation for Industry  
Speaking for the insurance industry specifically, NAMIC requests that policy actions avoid dual 
and conflicting regulation for industry. NAMIC believes that regulatory proposals, activity, and 
directives toward the insurance industry’s use of AI should stem from and factor in existing state 
insurance law and not advance novel concepts or interpretations that expand such laws  or may 
conflict with  such laws. Particularly relative to explainability and assurance of AI model outputs, 
the insurance industry is already stringently regulated at the state level on these matters, 
regardless of whether a human is doing the work, or whether the work is AI -assisted.  
Insurance is unique among financial services products in that the actual cost of providing 
insurance is unknown at the time it is offered. Instead, insurers price prospectively based on a 
proposed policyholder’s risk. This prospective nature of pricing req uires that insurers rely on 
actuarial science to fairly ascertain and better measure future risk predictors, then match pricing 
to the risk of loss as accurately as possible. These efforts help ensure that less risky policyholders 
are not overcharged to su bsidize riskier policyholders. Correlating price to risk also protects 
insurer solvency, a fundamental principal underlying insurers’ ability to meet its commitment to 
policyholders in the event of future claims.  
The appropriate metric for insurance pricing and risk rating is a standard of “unfair 
discrimination,” as recognized by state insurance codes, which prohibit classifying and rating 
similar risk characteristics differently , and prohibits using certain factors such as race or 
ethnicity. These laws apply regardless of whether a human completes the work and pricing , or 
whether the work is AI -assisted.  
To reinforce the fact that existing insurance law applies to the use of AI in insurance, the 
National Association of Insurance Commissioners  (NAIC) adopted the Model Bulletin on the 
Use of Artificial Intelligence by Insurers in December 2023. At the outset, the NAIC Model 
Bulletin states that it is intended to “remind all insurers . . . that decisions or actions impacting 
consumers that are made or s upported by advanced analytical and computational technologies . . 
. must comply with all applicable insurance laws and regulations. This includes those laws that 
address unfair trade practices and unfair discrimination.”   
Due to its nature as a regulatory bulletin, the NAIC Model Bulletin explains how state insurance 
regulators expect to apply  existing state insurance law. Therefore, even in states where the NAIC 
Model Bulletin has not been adopted, the legal framework already exists for the insurance 
regulators to ensure consumer protection and guard against unfair discrimination, regardless of 
the tool or method being used .  


3 State insurance departments have consistently implemented unfair discrimination standards 
(based on state laws) which insurers have been dutifully in compliance for decades and continue 
to do so in the advent of AI technology. To create further regulatory regimes for AI and insurance 
that do not stem directly from state insurance codes would be to crea te a layered and conflicting 
regulatory framework, which in turn, would stifle innovation and the benefit that insurance 
consumers might receive from the use of AI in the insurance industry. 
If you have any questions or require further information, please contact me. Thank you for your 
time and consideration.  
Thomas J. Karol  
General Counsel – Federal     
National Association of Mutual Insurance Companies 


