1 
Uploaded via http://www.regulations.gov at docket number 2025 -02305  (90 FR 8741 ) 
Sent via email to   on March 1 5, 2025 . 
March 15 , 202 5 
Faisal D ’Souza  
Office of Science and Technology  Policy 
NCO, 2415 Eisenhower Avenue,  
Alexandria, VA 22314, USA  
Re: Comments of the National Center for the A dvancement of Semic onductor Technology 
(Natcast)  to Request for Information  “Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action 
Plan ,” 90  Fed. Reg. 9088  (February 6 , 2025)  
Ref: Docket No. 2025 -02305  (90 FR 8741 ) 
Dear Mr. D ’Souza,  
On behalf of the National Center for the Advancement of Semiconductor Technology ( Natcast ), 
we are pleased  to submit our response to the federal solicitation for the AI Action Plan.   
Natcast is a purpose -built, non -profit entity designated to operate the National Semiconductor 
Technology Center (NSTC) . Established by the bipartisan CHIPS and Science Act of the U.S. 
government, the NSTC is a public -private consortium dedicated to semiconductor R&D in the 
United States. The NSTC reflects a once -in-a-generation opportunity for the U.S. to drive the pace 
of innovation, set standards, and secure global leadership in semiconductor design and 
manufacturing.  
The mission of the NSTC is to serve as the focal point for research and engineering throughout 
the semiconductor ecosystem, advancing and enabling disruptive innovation to provide U.S. 
leadership in the industries of the future.  


2 
We at Natcast recognize the critical importance of advancing  artificial intelligence as a 
cornerston e of U S technology leadership , national security, and economic competitiveness.   
Central to this mission is the work being done at the National Semicond uctor Technology Center , 
which is pivotal to the Uni ted States ’ position in the global AI landscape  and semiconductor  
technology . 
The rapid growth of AI technologies r elies heavily on robust semiconductor innovations - 
whichever nation leads in semiconduct ors is best positioned t o lead in  AI.  As the President state d 
on Marc h 3, 2025, “Semiconductors  are the  backbone  of the 21st century economy …powering 
everything from AI to automobiles to advanced manufacturing. ”1 Therefore, the NSTC play s an 
essential role in fostering transformative , high -risk/high -reward semiconductor R& D, on-shore in 
the United States , and will be critical in ushering in a “Second Bold Era  in S&T ,”2 in this case, in 
artificial  intelligence  and semiconductors .   
Over the past decades, as the semiconductor industry moved many operations out of the United 
States , much of this research  and d evelopment  moved offshore  to other countries . To combat 
this, the NSTC is playing a n essential role in onshoring  semiconductor  R&D,  fostering new 
collaborative public -private p rojects that are d riving needed  advancements  in semicon ductor 
technology , which , in turn, fuels the development  of cutting -edge AI technologies and 
applications  here in the United States .  
Further, by investing in semiconductor research  and developmen t, in partnership with America ’s 
leading experts, private industry,  and academic centers of excellence , we are not only addressi ng 
current technological and infrastructure challenges  but also paving the way for future  
breakthroughs that  could lead to  US pre-emin ence  in AI.  
Finally,  the NSTC provides  a tremendous return on investment  for the taxp ayer, who will benefit 
from US AI leadership . For every dollar the US government  spends on semiconductor R&D , that 
dollar results in  at least  $15 in economic growt h3 in the United States . There fore, the NSTC 
prom ises to secure significant economic growth in the United States for the AI industr ies of the 
future . 
1 Remarks by President Trump on Investment Announcement – The White House  
2 M-19-25, FY 2021 Administration Research and Development Budget Priorities  
3 Sparking Innovation - Semiconductor Industry Association  


   
3 
 
 
Our submission includes the  National Semiconductor Technology  Center Strategi c Plan4, outli ning 
the NSTC vision and o bjectives to enhance semiconductor . The plan outlines a comprehensive 
strategy for building the NSTC as an enduring institution that will strengthen and extend U.S. 
leadership in semiconductor technology. It outlines the NSTC’s three primary goals:  
1. Extend U.S. technology leadership  
2. Reduce the time and cost to prototype  
3. Build and sustain a semiconductor workforce ecosystem  
Based on the NSTC Strategic Plan , we shar e the following  specific  efforts , addressing specific 
challenges  essential to the AI Action Plan : 
1. Hardware Innovat ions have Historically High Development Costs , High Research 
Infrastructure Costs, Expensive and Specialized Expertise,  and Long   Timelines:  
Com panies, startups, and venture capital firms are often hesitant to invest in 
semiconductor technologies that are capital -intensive and have lengthy development 
cycles. Consequently, many promising semiconductor start -ups, including those focused 
on manufacturing process innovatio n such as wafer foundry, metrology, and equipment, 
face difficulties attracting private investment.  
o NSTC  Strategic Initiatives :  
▪ The NSTC  is moving quickly to estab lish a best -in-globe set of research 
infrastructure assets that lower the barriers to semiconductor prototyping, 
experimentation, and other R&D activities.  The facilities will allow 
innovators to collaborate and accelerat e solving the most challenging 
problems in  semiconductors related to AI and next generation computing.  
The facilities will offer  unparalleled value to stakeholders across the 
semiconductor  and AI  value chain. The facilities announced  to date are the  
following :  
1. NSTC Prototyping and NAPMP Advanced Packaging Piloting Facility 
in Ph oenix, Arizona . 
2. NSTC Administrative and Design Facility (ADF) in Sunnyvale, 
California . 
3. NSTC Extreme Ultraviolet (EUV) Accelerator in Alban y, New York . 
 
 
4 NSTC Strategic Plan | Natcast  


4 
▪Natcast has created  an NSTC investment fund to support promising
semiconductor ecosystem start -ups in the United States , including  in the AI
and datacenter space .
1.The NSTC investment fund will fill this market gap by  strategically
investing in start -ups that align with the research agenda or have
true breakthrough potential. The fund’s objective is to provide
capital and a n ecosystem that enables start -ups to achieve
milestones and positions them to attract private capital.
2.Natcast will also provide start -ups with access to prototyping and
advanced packaging facilities, design tool s, and silicon aggregation
servic es.
2.Hardware is a Key Bottleneck and Enabler of  AI Competitiveness  and Energy Efficiency :
Absolute performance  is essential for frontier model leadership, while energy efficiency
is crucial for commercial adoption. The U.S. supply chain must continue to provide
processors, communications, and memory solutions with leading -edge technology.  This
requires  best -in-the-world , new , R&D paradig ms and research infrastructure , which the
NSTC is po ised to suppl y here in the Un ited St ates.
oNSTC Strategic  Initiatives :
▪Supporting this infrastructure investment , the NSTC ’s R&D Technology
Advisory Board and research agenda will have the world ’s leading
semiconductor experts an d AI innovators  providing input  on focus areas
that pr omise to result in  trans formative, high -risk/high -reward R&D.  These
projects have the potential to generate breakthrough innovations  onshore ,
in the United States .
1.NSTC’s  research agenda will ensure that U.S. -
originated  AI datacenter and edge system technologies lead in
absolute performance (e.g., with beyond -Complementary Field -
Effect Transistor (CFET) logic devices, integrated silicon photonics
and chip -to-chip communications, new high -performance universal
storage).
2.NSTC will also support computing performance per watt through
system -level optimizations across logic, connectivity, and memory.


5 
3.Resilience of Domestic Semiconductor Supply Chains : Domestic semiconductor supply
chains , and the resulting AI supply chain, need to be immune from nation -state
disruption, and the U.S. needs to be able to deploy U.S. -based semiconductor  and AI
innovations.
oNSTC Strategic  Initiatives :
▪NSTC’s research into cost -effective manufacturing techniques and waste
treatment technologies will address the economics of fab/factory
construction and enable the economically viable onshoring of the currently
global semiconductor supply chain, avoiding p otential costly disruptions.
▪NSTC’s research administration policies - emphasizing research security,
domestic production, intellectual property  - combine to enable onshore
capacity for leading technologies critical to  AI, while simultaneously
building in security and U .S. sourcing fro m the ground -up.
4.Whole -of-Sector Response for Effective  AI Leadership : Effective  AI leadership requires a
whole -of-sector response across the U.S. semiconductor industry.
oNSTC Strategic  Initiatives :
▪NSTC’s growing membership , currently 113+ members5, comprises the full
spectrum of participants and stakeholders in the semiconductor industry,
from academic institutions to tool vendors to design companies to
manufacturers and even end users.
▪By convening a whole -of-sector R&D capability, the NSTC will facilitate
faster adoption of  key semiconductor and  AI technologies,  and foster
coordination on approaches and standards in areas ranging from chiplets
to supply chain integrity .
5 NSTC Members | Natcast  


6 
5.Workforce Preparation : To be competitive, the U.S. nee ds to p repare the workforce
for AI-related jobs  in the semiconductor  industry .
oNSTC Strategic  Initiatives :
▪Through the NSTC Workforce Center of Excellence, the NSTC is develop ing
and fund ing training and education programs for  the semiconductor
industry  and foster ing partnerships between educational institutions
and AI companies to ensure relevant and up -to-date training .
▪Over the next ten years, the WCoE aims to enable over 35,000 individuals
for roles in the semiconductor industry. During its first year of operation,
the WCoE expects to:
1. Enable training of 2,000 individuals for roles in the industry
2.Serve more than 30 stakeholder institutions, including all leading -
edge manufacturing employers
Thank you for the opportunity to comm ent. 
We look forward to the opportunity to contribute to t he AI Actio n Plan and further the important 
work of the NSTC  in driving US AI leadership.  
Sincerely,  
_______________________  
Maryam Cope  
Vice Pres ident, Govern mental Affairs  
Natcast, Operator of the NSTC  


