From: Nathaniel Klein
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 10:09:40 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
I, Nathaniel Klein ensure this document is approved for public dissemination. The document
contains no business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may bereused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents withoutattribution.
I saw this AI Action Plan coming into effect recently and believe that restrictions that are there
should be left in place. While working in the technological field I understand deeply that AI ishelpful to my current working position, there are some very important quirks in it to take noteof. Allowing the AI to grab from sources online or even in training centers for it everywhereeven going through current copyright laws is not only inefficient but infringes on privatesectors rights and will hurt them just as much as this could potentially be of use.
AI needs be finely tuned by a trained induvial hand as weird as that sounds. I work in the
healthcare technological field and while we have AI in some elements of our products byCisco, even if its trained outside by a professional before being implemented. It needs to gothrough a series of "tuning" by each individual institute.
 An example of this could be that a
new AI trained elsewhere and not by the individual at the institute could cause a block on aFirewall sending MRI scans to our approved remote radiologist or even the opposite ofallowing the MRI stuff to be sent to someone who has no business looking at it thus becominga breach of HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act).
 
I also feel as this might tread on Copyright Laws in the Entertainment/Artistic field. Imagine ifthis goes through, I feel as if this would inadvertently allow the AI to train itself on sourcesthat are protected by copyright laws such as Characters from Disney to name an example. Ifthis goes through, I could imagine Disney wouldn't be able to protect its copyright if the AI isstealing/using their existing media to create its own artistry of it and potentially could be soldby the people creating this and because of the restrictions being lessened from this AI actionplan.
 
I wholeheartedly believe there is another way to advance our AI action plan in a differentmore competitive/ethical way that would lead to the development of even bettertechnologies as it would have to be aware of the current laws in practice as part of itslearning/development which will help sustain and put America's AI innovation a step abovethe rest of the AI's being developed.


All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


