By Electr onic Submission     March  14, 202 5 
Michael Kratsios  
Director  
Office of Science and Technology Policy  
1650 Pennsylvania Avenue N .W. 
Washington, DC 20 502 Sethuraman Panchanathan  
Director  
U.S. National Science Foundation 
2415 Eisenhower Ave.  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Re: “Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan ” (90 Fed.  Reg. 9088, Feb. 6, 2025)  
Dear Mr. Kratsios and Mr. Panchanathan, 
The National Association of Wholesaler -Distributors (“NAW”) respectfully submit these 
comments in response to the Networking and Information Technology Research and 
Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office’s  Request for Information on the 
development  of an artificial intelligence (AI) action plan.  This document is approved for public 
dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. 
Document contents may be  reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and 
associated documents without attribution.  
About NAW a nd the Wholesale Distribution Industry  
As the “national voice of wholesale distribution”, NAW is an association comprised of 
employers of all sizes and national, regional, state, and local line -of-trade associations spanning 
the $8 trillion wholesale distribution industry that employs over 6 million workers in the United 
States. In total, NAW represents an industry comprised of 19 sectors with 250,000 places of 
business in all 50 states and the District of Columbia.  
Wholesale distribution is a business -to-business i ndustry: wholesaler -distributors purchase 
inventory, generally from manufacturers, and sell it to their customers, generally retailers or professional installers. Wholesaler- distributors buy inventory in la rge quantities, warehouse it, 
break it down into the quantities their customers want (called “breaking bulk”), and ship to those customers. Distinct from warehouse logistics companies, which move someone else’s 
product from seller to buyer, wholesaler- distributors purchase inventory, take title to it, then 
re-sell it to customers.  


Most whol esaler -distributors are small- to mid -sized private companies, and, except for the 
largest companies, few have recognized name brands like the manufacturers and retailers 
which are supply chain partners. The role of the wholesale distribution industry in the economy 
is often underestimated, but the industry contributes approximately one -third of U.S. gross 
domestic product and is essential to our economic supply chain.  
Artificial Intelligence and the Wholesale Distribution Industry  
As a critical part of the supply chain, the wholesale distribution industry  consistently leverages 
new, developing technologies to improve  the efficiency of our services in supplying goods 
throughout the country and internationally . Today’s w holesaler-distributors are integrating  
artificial intelligence (AI), automation , and machine learning into their daily operations.  
NAW’s comments provide an overview of how the  industry uses this  technology in nearly every 
facet of the business, such as inventory management, purchasing, order fulfillment, sales and marketing, and customer service. The comments also provide recommendations on how a federal AI Action Plan could support wholesaler -distributors and the larger U.S. economy.  
Application and Use of Artificial Intelligence 
Invent ory Management  
The proce ss of tracking and maintaining the entire stock of goods a wholesaler -distributor holds 
in its warehouse (s) is one of the most tedious, complex aspects of running a successful 
operation. A distributor will often carry thousands of stock keeping units (SKUs) and some of 
the larger companies stock  several million separate products. As such, the industry is always in 
search of innovative, cost -effective tools to protect against inaccurate counts, lost inventory, 
overstock or shortages.   
The eme rgence and availability of AI h elp solve many of these challenges  and provide 
wholesaler- distributors with new, efficient- achieving capabilities. For example, AI technology 
allows companies to  analyz e sales patterns and inventory turnover rates to optimize stock 
levels across different locations.  The se AI tool s can  collect data from sensors and connected 
devices, analyze usage patterns, and forecast demand to optimize stock levels.  In doing so, this 
technology a lso reduces excess inventory and ensures critical supplies are available when 
needed, improving overall supply chain efficiency.  
This technol ogy has also been leveraged to improve preventative maintenance for tools and 
machinery critical to inventory management. For example, the integration of AI systems into 
existing equipment can predict when equipment such as forklifts and conveyor belts  are 
slowing down, prior to an actual breakdown. With this information, wholesaler -distributors can 
better account for timely maintenance, reduce machine downtime and ensure smooth operations of distribution centers.   


Purchasing 
Unlike retailers and online marketplace s, wholesaler-distributors purchase and own all of the 
goods and products they sell from their warehouses and distribution centers. Given the 
importance and  inherent risk of  this process, a thorough and efficient purchasing process is 
crucial for the industry.  Similar to the adoption of  web platforms and email correspondence 
towards the end of the 20th century, wholesaler -distributors have  begun to implement  AI 
technology to  enhance today’s purchasing operations.  
In leverag ing AI, wholesaler-distributors can incorporate their  historic sales data with predictive 
analytics to  identify purchasing patterns and trends . This enables purchasers to make more 
informed decisions about stock replenishment and supplier selection, smoothing out supply 
chain disruptions and transportation bottlenecks . Wholesaler- distributors also employ 
predictive analytics to  forecast demand, which provides an additional data point to help 
optimize inventory levels.  
Wholesal er-distributors ha ve also deployed  advanced machine learning models and other AI 
tools to enhance their inventory planning and purchasing. These models help business es 
optimize product depth and availability across various markets. In turn, wholesaler-distributors are equipped with a  better understanding of supply chains and improved service levels and 
operational efficiency.  
Industry le aders have also  partnered with and invested in AI technology firm s to enhance  their 
businesses and, in many cases, their  purchasing operations. In one such partnership, tools were 
implemented to improve demand forecasting and supplier decision -making by providing deeper 
insights into procurement patterns, inventory needs, and market risks. By integrating AI -driven 
forecasting, wholesaler- distributors can work to optimize procurement efficiency and minimize 
supply chain disruptions.  
AI has also allo wed companies to automate routine purchasing tasks such as order processing 
and correspondence with suppliers.  Deploying technology in this manner reduces manual 
errors and frees up staff for more strategic activities. By processing purchases in a more 
efficient and less error- prone manner, wholesaler- distributors have been able to redirect 
resources to benefit their workforce and the growth of their business.  
Order Fulfillment  
Alongside  the efficient purchasing of goods from manufacturers, the timely fulfillment of 
customer orders is critical to our businesses’ operations.  Much of this work has historically 
been manual with assistance from tools such as forklifts and order management systems.  Now, 
the industry can leverage AI, automation , and other technologies to improve their order 
fulfillment systems.  


For examp le, automated order processing  and AI -driven order optimization tools  are two 
notable enhancements of order fulfillment operations. Automated order processing is a 
method in which AI systems automate the creation of orders from emails, PDFs or other online 
documentation without user intervention. This significantly reduces the amount of time needed 
to configure orders  into formats ready for fulfillment, allowing employees to focus on more 
strategic tasks.   
The wholesa le-distribution industry has also  used AI systems to optimize their inventory and 
fulfillment by identifying the closest substitute for a stock- out or back- ordered item.  This 
involves the predictive analysis of past vendor performance and trends in pricing and delivery 
which would be virtually impossible without the availability of AI.  
To this end,  some distributors ha ve implemented their own AI-powered tools to enhance their 
order fulfillment process. For example, one industry leader  deployed  an internal  chatbot that 
helps employees quickly retrieve product information, check inventory levels, and assist with sourcing alternative items when needed. By leveraging AI  in this manner , companies can reduce 
manual workloads, optimize procurement, and improve response times for customer orders.   
Sales and Marketing  
Although the i mage most consumers have of the wholesale distribution industry is a vast 
warehouse or distribution center, the work of sales and marketing teams play an essential  role. 
Made up of both in- house and outside representatives, these teams are tasked with identifying 
potential customers, establishing strong relationships with current customers, and creating and broadcast ing communications  that highlight business offerings  to the communities they service. 
As technology evolves, these teams continue to adopt new strategies and techniques to best achieve their mission to attract  new business and retain existing business . 
The practi ce of price optimization has seen major improvements with the emergence of AI. By 
using historical data and analytics, sales representatives can  customize pricing to meet the 
demand of specific , existing  customers. AI can also analyze buying patterns, margin changes, 
and cart behavior of their existing customers to make highly segmented pricing 
recommendations that are likely to influence customer decision making.   
For example , wholesaler -distributors have  implemented  AI-powered pricing platform s to 
improve their sales process by centralizing and automating pricing data. The se system s process  
billions of pricing values in real time, ensuring accuracy and consistency across multiple 
channels. By unifying pricing across multiple systems , pricing c an be  dynamically adjust ed based 
on customer agreements, market conditions, and business rules, allowing sales teams to respond quickly with optimized pric es. 
Partnering  with digital ordering platform developers , companies  have also  utilized AI -powered 
platforms to enable customers to create digital storefronts . With this technology, c ustomers 
have more op portunities to streamlin e how they place orders and discover new products. This 


advanc ement has helped  enhance efficiency, drive business growth and digitalized a sector that 
has hist orically  been slower to innovate . 
To help ad vertise, marketing teams have employed strategies such as personalized marketing 
and content creation powered by generative AI. Although marketers have always been able to 
tailor their messaging to a specific audience, AI has provided the tools for these teams to 
deliver personalized marketing experiences  unique to each customer. To do so, AI systems can 
analyze customer data to recommend products and promotions tailored to individual preferences. This approach aims to increase customer satisfaction and brand loyalty.  
Large langu age models (LLMs) and AI i mage generators are another new tool  that marketing 
teams use to promote their company. Now, wholesaler- distributors can leverage these 
generative AI resources  to assist in creating personalized marketing content, such as product 
descriptions and promotional materials. In turn, these tools  help to streamline the content 
creation process , and can result in a more personalized experience for new, existing and future 
customers.  
Customer Service  
The wholes ale distribution industry prides itself on delivering exceptional service with the goal 
of creating a family of customers for life.  Historically, businesses have made significant 
investments in physical and human infrastructure to achieve this mission. Advancements in AI , 
such a s data analytics and chatbots, have  provided  new tools to  improve customer experience 
while easing mundane, repetitive tasks for companies and their employees . 
To avoid the  hours’ worth of analyzing data, AI has the capability to quickly provide employees 
with an overview of an individual customer. In doing so, these tools can provide customer 
service representatives with actionable insights into customer behavior, helping them identify 
at-risk accounts and recommend targeted actions to retain customers.  In the case of a 
customer service call center, this technology can elevate customer relationship management (CRM) software to equip representatives with a host of information on a customer and provide 
helpful context for the questions or assistance they may be seeking.  
For questi ons or tasks that may be more generic and frequent, the wholesale distribution 
industry has started to deploy LLMs and AI-driven voice agents . These tools can provid e 
immediate responses to inquiries 24/7, and drastically reduce wait times and enh ance 
customer experience.  
In lever aging this technology, some wholesaler-distributors ha ve integrated AI -driven voice 
agents to streamline their customer service operations. These AI tools automate procedural 
calls historically made by human  representatives , significantly reducing customer wait times . 
The technology also minimizes delays, decreases reliance on seasonal staffing, and improves 
accuracy in verifying patient benefits. This automation allows staff to focus on more complex support tasks, enhancing overall service efficiency.   


AI Action Plan Recommendations that Support the Wholesale Distribution Industry  
To ensure  that the industry can continue to leverage AI in the manner described above and 
explore additional uses to benefit its employees  and customers in the future, the federal 
government should prioritize the following in its action plan:  
Secure Opportunities for Further Innovation  
The wholes ale-distribution industry has  only been able to deploy the AI tools available because 
of the pro -innovation environment that empowered entrepreneurs and visionarie s to develop 
this technology. To ensure the industry can continue to benefit from future innovatio n, the 
federal government should: 
• Regulate  in a m anner that promotes the future growth of AI.  When establishing new
guardrails , the federal government must  give companies the flexibility to deploy new
AI-driven tools without burdensome compliance requirements. Agencies should also
avoid overregulation that would make it cost prohibitive for wholesaler-distributors to
install new technology .
• Promote tax incentives that reward research and development . For decades, research
and development (R&D) expenses  have qualified for immediate federal tax deduction
for businesses. However, effective January 2022, businesses must amortize or deduct
R&D costs over five years  under Section 174 of the tax code, increasing the cost of new
investments and raising taxes.  Congress should reintroduce and pass legislation to
repeal Section 174 R&D amortization and make it easier for companies to deduct theseexpenses.
• Combat  dangerous uses that tarnish the benefits  AI can provide. Federal laws and
regulations should clearly prohibit and punish AI use for illicit and illegal activities.
Mistrust in AI  is a major hurdle to its adoption and clear parameters around prohibited
uses would help both individuals and companies feel more comfortable with its usage.
Cultivate Public -Private Collaboration  
Although go vernment should allow the private sector space  to innovate and grow, it can be an 
important partner to help fund and develop new technologies. It is also crucial that private sector developers and users have a seat at the table when AI -related regulations are being 
developed. As such, a successful AI Action Plan would encourage the federal government to:  
•Include deve lopers and users to participate on AI task forces  and advisory boards.
Both private sector developers and users have valuable, unique perspectives on therealities of AI use that federal stakeholders may lack. Both developers and users shouldhave a consistent presence in these conversations at the federal level, serving as
members of any task force s or board s that may be considering AI use.  As influential
adopters of AI tools, wholesaler- distributors should especially be consult ed on issues


related  to AI and data privacy, cybersecurity , supply chain management, and small 
business implications.  
• Engage in meaningful consultation with private sector stakeholders when developing 
AI guidance and regulations . Consistent public -private collaboration will be key to the 
successful growth of AI, particularly  during the federal rulemaking process. Federal 
agenci es should ensure stakeholders, such as  private sector  AI developers and users , 
have ample time to provide robust information and feedback  during the rulemaking 
process and in the development of any federal guidance . Regulators should also reach 
out to these stakeholders  to solicit feedback directly when appropriate.  
 
Protect Data Privacy and Security  
 
A major barrier for the wholesal e distribution industry to adopt AI is the fear around data 
privacy and security. In today’s digital world, companies hold an abundance of valuable, 
proprietary data that may provide them with advantages over their competitors. To ease these 
concerns and promote the use of AI tools more broadly,  the federal government should:  
 
• Identify privacy rights of c ustomers  and businesses using AI.  The creation of a federal 
data privacy policy would make it clearer for c ustomer s and businesses to understand 
the national legal parameters required when utilizing AI. One, national standard would 
also establish much -need ed legal consistency  critical for wholesaler-distributors with 
operations ac ross states to continue to leverage this technology . Specifically , companies 
would support legislation and regulations with the flexibility to use their collected data  
to enhance their business while protecting the rights and privacy of its customers.    
• Address areas of ambiguity on the ownership rights of AI -produced resources.  Similar 
to federal privacy rights, federal stakeholders should also resolve the uncertainty AI 
users have with ownership rights of the tools and resources they use. Such legislation or 
regulations should provide companies with reassurance that their data is secure and  any 
generated outputs are owned by the user, not an external product developer.  
 Enhance Critical Supply Chain Efficiency  
 Recent labor disruptions, natural disasters , and the COVID- 19 pandemic  have amplified the 
fragility of our nation’s supply chains. As such, t he whol esale distribution industry has invested 
significant resources  to map, monitor, and make our supply chains more resilient.  Our industry 
also understands the opportunity AI provides to continue to improve these efforts, and requests that an AI Action Plan direct federal agencies to:  
 
• Examine the use of AI for supply chain mapping and monitoring . Federal entities, such 
as the Department of Commerce’s Supply Chain Center, should leverage AI tools in its efforts to  map and monitor critical supply chains. Resources should also be made 
publicly available to  businesses, such as wholesaler-distributors, on how they can 
leverage AI to better understand their supply chains.  


•Unders tand the role of supply chain stakeholders in building AI infrastructure. The
wholesale distribution industry has a major role to play in the construction of data
centers needed to power the growth of AI. As such, federal agencies of jurisdiction, like
the Department of Commerce and National Telecommunications and InformationAdministration (NTIA) , should consult with companies to better understand the needs of
our industry to support these efforts.
Promot e Workforce Development  
AI allows emp loyers to upskill workers and create well- paid , safe jobs.  The introduction of AI 
into the industry has created a demand for upskilling and workforce development. To aid these efforts, the federal government should:  
•Establis h tax incentives to promote  upskilling . Currently, employers can deduct or
access tax credits for investments in worker education and training.  The Federal
Government should preserve these tax benefits, such as  the Lifetime Learning Credit,
that can help employees gain valuable technical skills . Legislation should also be
adopted that would expand the tax credit  and cover a broader array of tools and
technology, such as computer equipment, software  and licensure fees or materials.
•Provide additional resources to advance upskilling and workforce developmentefforts.  As technology, including AI, reshapes industries, federal stakeholders should
continue to support and modernize workforce initiatives . AI education should be
included in upskilling and reskilling  efforts to better prepare workers to develop,
manage, and use emerging technologies. Investing in these strategies will not only
support economic growth but also ensure a resilient and adaptable workforce for thefuture.
Consider the Impact and Utilization for Small Business es 
In creating regulations and guidance, the federal government has made a concerted effort in ensuring compliance is feasible for small businesses. Such efforts should be no different in the 
development of an AI Action Plan, as this technology can revolutionize small business operations for the better. To ensure this is the case, the federal government should:  
•Consult wi th small business AI users to understand compliance abilities for any new
regulation. Federal agencies should ensure that regulations and policies support small
businesses by making compliance clear and manageable. Beyond formal analyses,regulators should engage directly with small businesses using or planning to use  AI to
better understand their challenges and opportunities. Streamlining regulatoryprocesses, particularly for AI -related policies, will help reduce burdens, foster
innovation, and enable businesses to remain competitive.
•Provide resources  on the risks and opportunities associated with AI adoption.
Agencies tasked with AI research and regulations, such as the White House Office of
Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), the National Institute of Standards andTechnology (NIST), and the National Science Foundation (NSF) should create resources


and ho st programming focused on AI adoption for small businesses. Lack of knowledge 
or expertise can be a major hurdle for small businesses to use  AI, and federal 
stakeholders should prioritize  investments in AI education so companies can understand 
if and how AI might be beneficial for them.       
Conclusi on 
As outline d, the wholesale distribution industry has been an early  adopter of  AI technology in 
the private sector. AI products and tools have helped our businesses  drive operational 
efficiencies, improve customer service, and enhance workforce productivity.  
As the industr y continues to integrate AI tools in key areas such as inventory management, 
purchasing, and order fulfillment, it is crucial that federal policies foster an environment 
conducive to innovation and growth. I t is equally important for the federal government to 
recognize the unique needs of small businesses in the AI landscape. To ensure our labor force is prepared for the age of AI, the federal government should prioritize initiatives that advance workforce development and upskilling . By promoting flexible regulations, encouraging public -
private collaboration, and safeguarding data of companies and their customers, the federal 
government can ensure that our industry and other supply chain partners  can harness the full 
potential of AI to improve operations and strengthen our economy.  
We appreci ate the opportunity to provide information on the role of AI in wholesale 
distribution, and welcome the opportunity to continue to engage with OSTP and NSF as it 
considers the development of an AI Action Plan.  
Respectful ly submitted, 
Brian Wild  
Chief G overnment Relations Officer  
National Association of Wholesaler-Distributors 


