National  Congress  of American  Indians  | 1516  P St NW, Washington,  DC 20005  | (202)   | www.ncai.org  
1 March  15, 2025  
Dr. Sethuraman  Panchanathan 
Director  
National  Science  Foundation 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria,  VA 22314  
Submitted  electronically  
RE: Response to Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence  (AI) Action  Plan,  90 Fed. Reg. 9,088  (Feb.  6, 2025)  (Docket  No. NSF- 
2025 -02305)  
Dear  Dr. Panchanathan,  
The Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National 
Coordination Office (NCO), National Science Foundation (NSF), on behalf of the Office of 
Science  and Technology  Policy  (OSTP),  solicited  input  specifically  from  Tribal  Nations  on the 
Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan.1 We applaud NSF and OSTP for 
proactively seeking the input of Tribal Nations and recognizing that the 574 federally 
recognized Tribal Nations can both benefit from AI and play a vital role in advancing 
America's leadership in this field.  
Founded in 1944, the National Congress of American Indians (NCAI) is the oldest, largest, 
and most representative organization dedicated to advancing the interests of American 
Indian/Alaska  Native  (AI/AN)  Tribal  Nations  and communities.  NCAI  established  the Institute 
for Environmental Sovereignty (IES) to, among other things, safeguard Indigenous cultural 
heritage and advance innovative Indigenous -led approaches to environmental protection. 
Along  with other  units  of NCAI  that address  AI issues  in Indian  Country,  IES investigates  how 
critical technologies like artificial intelligence (AI) can enhance Tribal environmental 
management, addressing both the opportunities and challenges related to sovereignty and 
cultural relevance. The Center for Tribal Digital Sovereignty (the Center) is the nation’s first  
1 90 Fed. Reg. 9,088 (Feb. 6, 2025) (“OSTP and NITRD NCO seek input from the public, including from academia, industry 
groups, private sector organizations, state, local , and tribal governments , and any other interested parties, on priority actions 
that should be included in the Plan.”) (emphasis added).  


National  Congress  of American  Indians  | 1516  P St NW, Washington,  DC 20005  | (202)   | www.ncai.org  
2 center dedicated to helping Tribal governments navigate digital sovereignty, offering resources and expertise to 
assert Tribal rights in the digital age.2 The NCAI Technology Task Force plays a key role in shaping AI policies 
by advocating for solutions that make AI technologies accessible and beneficial to Tribal communities while 
upholding and respecting their sovereignty.  
NCAI’s Tribal government members established a clear position on Tribal digital sovereignty through multiple 
resolutions, including NC -24-0083 "Supporting Tribal Digital Sovereignty as an Exercise of Self -Determination," 
which builds upon previous resolutions PDX -11-0344, ANC -22-0105, SAC -22-0166, and SAC -22-0267. These 
resolutions collectively assert:  
1.Tribal Nations possess inherent sovereign rights to enforce their digital sovereignty standards on AI data
usage.
2.AI technologies must not circumvent Tribal Nation data collection protocols or violate Tribal sovereignty
principles.
3.All data collection,  management,  and ownership  regarding  Tribal  communities  must  comply  with standards
established by Tribal laws and policies, including safety, security, and resiliency requirements.
4.Tribal  Nations  maintain  authority  to:
●Determine  parameters  and scope  of data collection
●Assert  ultimate  ownership  over data collected  from  their citizens
●Require  non-Tribal  entities  to comply  with Tribal  law, protocols,  and digital  standards
5.As sovereigns, Tribal Nations have rights to determine ownership, access, use, and management of data
derived  from  their citizens,  including  demographic,  anthropological,  archaeological,  environmental,  public
2 The Center  for Tribal  Digital  Sovereignty  is a collaborative  partnership  entity  of the National  Congress  of American  Indians 
and the American Indian Policy Institute at the Sandra Day O'Connor College of Law at Arizona State University, 
https://aipi.asu.edu/ctds  (last visited March 10, 2025).  
3 See NCAI Resolution #NC -24-008 (June, 2024), https://ncai.assetbank -server.com/assetbank - 
ncai/action/viewAsset?id=5502&index=0&total=534&view=viewSearchItem  (“calling upon Federal, State, and local 
governments to recognize Tribal Digital Sovereignty and its crucial role in modern Tribal self -governance”)  
4See NCAI Resolution #PDX -11-034 (November, 2011), https://ncai.assetbank -server.com/assetbank - 
ncai/action/viewAsset?id=1129  (“supporting  federal  communications  policy  reform  to strengthen  American  Indian  and Alaska 
Native self -determination”).  
5See NCAI Resolution #ANC -22-010 (June, 2022), https://ncai.assetbank -server.com/assetbank - 
ncai/action/viewAsset?id=1976  (“calling on the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to respect Tribal data 
sovereignty regarding broadband data in the Broadband Data Collection Portal”).  
6See NCAI Resolution #SAC -22-016 (November, 2022), https://ncai.assetbank -server.com/assetbank - 
ncai/action/viewAsset?id=3141&index=0&total=1000&view=viewSearchItem  (“supporting Tribes exercising their inherent 
sovereign  authority  over the activities  and data of their businesses,  citizens,  and jurisdiction  online;  and recognizing  Tribal  data 
sovereignty and jurisdiction online”).  
7NCAI Resolution #SAC -22-026 (November, 2022), https://ncai.assetbank -server.com/assetbank - 
ncai/action/viewAsset?id=3150&index=0&total=1000&view=viewSearchItem  (Stating that “all decisions involving the 
collection, management, and ownership of data taken from Tribal communities must adhere to standards, including those 
ensuring safety, security, and resiliency needs, set forth by Tribal laws and policies”).  


National  Congress  of American  Indians  | 1516  P St NW, Washington,  DC 20005  | (202)   | www.ncai.org  
3 health,  genomic,  medical,  and traditional  knowledge  data,  as well as proxy  data and data obtained  through 
third -party AI tools.  
6.When  a Tribal  Nation  lacks  specific  data governance  laws,  non-Tribal  entities  must:
●Obtain  formal,  enforceable  Tribal  consent  early  in the research  process
●Provide  ongoing  opportunities  for Tribal  input  throughout  data collection  efforts
●Respect  Tribal  authority  throughout  the applicable  data lifecycle
●Uphold  Tribal  rights  to refuse/withdraw  consent  and participation  (including  data removal)
In response  to NSF’s  solicitation  for input  on the AI Action  Plan,  we identify  several  opportunities  for federal  policy 
on AI to leverage  Tribal  Nations’  unique  contributions  while  fulfilling  the U.S. government's  trust responsibility  to 
Tribal  Nations.  The unique  political  and legal  relationship  that Tribal  Nations  share  with the United  States  is rooted 
in the inherent  sovereignty  of Tribal  Nations,  recognized  in the U.S. Constitution,  treaties,  and many  federal  statutes, 
regulations, and policies.8 The U.S. Supreme Court has consistently recognized and upheld the distinct legal and 
political status of Tribal Nations and their citizens and communities.  This important and enduring federal trust 
relationship and responsibility, also based in federal Indian law, treaties, statutes, and court decisions, forms the 
basis of the following recommendations in support of advancing U.S. interest in and dominance of AI and other 
emerging technologies so critical to our national security and economic prosperity.1 NCAI offers the following 
recommendations in response to NSF's request and stated commitment to respect the sovereignty and self - 
governance of American Indian/Alaska Native Tribal Nations .1 
8 Morton v. Mancari , 417 U.S. 535, 553, n. 24 (1974) (BIA employment preference for qualified Indians “is political, rather 
than racial  in nature”).  Any misclassification  of AI policies  and programs  as “DEI”  would  severely  undermine  the federal  trust 
responsibility and have a wide -ranging negative impacts both on Tribal Nations and those programs.  


National  Congress  of American  Indians  | 1516  P St NW, Washington,  DC 20005  | (202)   | www.ncai.org  
4 Table of Contents  
Overarching  Recommendations  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 5 
A. Recognize  Tribal  Digital  Sovereignty  to Protect  Tribal  Rights  in AI Policy  ................................ ................  5 
B. Address  Limited  Tribal  Data  Representation  to Improve  AI Systems  ................................ ..........................  6 
C. Strengthen  Tribal  Consent  Processes  for Efficient  Data  Utilization ................................ ..............................  7 
D. Enhancing  and Prioritizing  Government -to-Government  Consultation  with Tribal  Nations  ........................  8 
E. Overcome Barriers to AI Adoption by Investing in Strategic Infrastructure Development in Indian
Country  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 8 
F. Implement  Efficient  Cultural  Protection  Mechanisms  ................................ ................................ ..................  9 
G. Support  Strategic  Tribal  Workforce  Development  ................................ ................................ ......................  10 
H. Develop  Balanced  Regulatory  Approaches  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 10 
I. Incorporate  Tribal  Security  Considerations  in National  Defense  ................................ ................................  10 
Conclusion  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................  11 


National  Congress  of American  Indians  | 1516  P St NW, Washington,  DC 20005  | (202)   | www.ncai.org  
5  
 Overarching  Recommendations:  
In alignment with Executive Order 14179’s goal of removing barriers to American leadership in AI, NCAI offers 
recommendations that will ensure AI policies recognize and uphold Tribal Nations' digital sovereignty, self - 
determination, and data governance rights.  The Center for Tribal Digital Sovereignty is poised to serve as a vital 
resource  for the Office  of Science  and Technology  Policy  (OSTP)  and the National  Science  Foundation,  should  our 
goals  align  in implementing  these  recommendations.  To further  advance  these  goals,  NCAI  proposes  the following 
nine actionable policy recommendations for the AI Action Plan:  
 
A. Recognize  Tribal  Digital  Sovereignty  to Protect  Tribal  Rights  in AI Policy  
"Digital Sovereignty" refers to Tribal Nations' inherent right to control their digital assets, data, and technological 
infrastructure.  The amicus brief of NCAI and the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes in the Alario case 
(attached) provides an expert and comprehensive expression of Tribal Digital Sovereignty, highlighting how 
Montana's TikTok ban infringed upon Tribal sovereignty and jurisdiction.9 This case emphasizes the importance 
of clear legal recognition of Tribal data governance rights.  As summarized on page 2 of these Comments, NCAI 
has adopted formal resolutions that both recognize Tribal sovereignty over data in digital spaces and protect data 
sovereignty against irresponsibly designed AI tools that bypass Tribal Nations' established data protocols.10 
 
The collection and use of data from Indian Country through administrative processes, such as federal grant 
applications,  raises  significant  concerns.  Routine  data collection —like mapping  and household  demographics —can 
lead to intrusive surveillance of Tribal communities when processed by AI systems.  Federal agencies, as well as 
any associated  parties  such as grantees  and contractors,  must  be mandated  to obtain  explicit  Tribal  consent  for any 
data utilized  in AI development.  Policies  should  absolutely  prohibit  the secondary  use of administratively  collected 
Tribal data for AI training without the prior informed and obtained consent from affected and involved Tribal 
Nations.  
Furthermore, Resolution #NC -24-00811 supports the recognition of this sovereignty, which would remove barriers 
such as legal complexities, data misuse concerns, and limited resources hindering Tribal participation in AI 
development.  Strengthening data sovereignty protections builds trust and enhances the AI ecosystem.  We see a 
powerful example in the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which fosters 
accountability and promotes a secure, transparent AI landscape. Policy actions include:  
 
 
9 Searle, J., & Wright, B. M. (2024). Brief of amici curiae Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes, a federally recognized 
Indian  Tribe,  and the National  Congress  of American  Indians  in support  of plaintiff -appellees  (No. 24-34). United  States  Court 
of  Appeals   for  the  Ninth   Circuit.   Native   American   Rights   Fund.   Retrieved   from   https://narf.org  
/nill/documents/20240507alario -knudsen -amicus -brief.pdf  (last visited  March  10, 2025)  
10 See NCAI Resolution #ANC -14-015 (October, 2014), https://ncai.assetbank -server.com/assetbank - 
ncai/action/viewAsset?id=2386&index=0&total=534&view=viewSearchItem  (“calling on Congress to establish formal 
recognition of Tribal sovereignty and Tribal consultation in the Communications Act”)  
11 See NCAI  Resolution  #NC-24-008 (June,  2024), 
https://ncai.assetbank -server.com/assetbank -ncai/action  
/viewAsset?id=5502&index=0&total=534&view=viewSearchItem  (“calling upon Federal, State, and local governments to 
recognize Tribal Digital Sovereignty and its crucial role in modern Tribal self -governance”)  


National  Congress  of American  Indians  | 1516  P St NW, Washington,  DC 20005  | (202)   | www.ncai.org  
6 1.Establishing  clear  federal  guidelines  recognizing  Tribal  data governance  rights
2.Establishing  clear,  consent -driven  processes  for Tribal  governments  to manage  how their data is used in AI
development,  ensuring  robust  protections  against  unauthorized  use and upholding  Tribal  Nations'  authority
over their digital assets
3.Providing  legal  clarity  on intellectual  property  protections  for Tribal  data and knowledge12,13
B.Address  Limited  Tribal  Data  Representation  to Improve  AI Systems
Each Tribal Nation possesses unique characteristics, with inherent dissimilarities between and among the 574 
federally  recognized  Tribal  Nations.  While  AI systems  learn  from  massive  amounts  of data,  the contribution  of data 
from Indian Country is markedly small, limiting the accuracy and effectiveness of AI applications.14 An analogy 
would  be extrapolating  from  a limited  dataset  on the seventeenth - and eighteenth -century  Dutch  Republic  to make 
broad assumptions that modern European culture, from Norway to Greece, is characterized by windmills, tulip 
fields, and klompen . 
The use of AI is fundamentally suspect when representing Native peoples, consistently misrepresenting Tribal 
Nations' rich cultural patrimony without proper context or consent.15 Google Gemini's high -profile failures 
demonstrate how even well -meaning companies go catastrophically wrong without Tribal Nations' active 
involvement  in AI development.16 These  failures  harm  America's  cultural  heritage  and lead to significant  economic 
costs.  For example, project delays can result in millions of dollars in lost revenue and hinder technological 
advancements.  Additionally, consumer backlash —such as negative public reactions to companies that mishandle 
sensitive data —can damage a company’s reputation and lead to stock devaluation.  These effects extend to all 
Americans, causing market inefficiency, eroding trust in technology, and burdening taxpayers with the cost of 
remediation efforts.  Policy actions include:  
1.Supporting  data collection  initiatives  that properly  represent  Tribal  diversity17,18
2.Establishing  standards  for detecting  and mitigating  AI misrepresentations  of Tribal  communities
12 Anderson,  J. (2016). Indigenous knowledge and intellectual property rights. In C. Lennox & D. Short (Eds.), Handbook of 
indigenous peoples' rights (pp. 171 –183). Routledge.  
13 First Nations  Information  Governance  Centre.  (2016).  The First Nations  principles  of OCAP®.  Journal  of Aboriginal  Health, 
23(1), 53 –56. 
14 Couldry,  N., & Mejias,  U. A. (2019).  Data  colonialism:  Rethinking  big data's  relation  to the contemporary  subject.  Television 
& New Media, 20(4), 336 –349. https://doi.org/10.1177/1527476418796632  
15 Asia Indigenous  Peoples  Pact (AIPP).  (2023,  May 29). Indigenous  Peoples:  AI is inherently  ridden  with algorithm  bias and 
poisoned data. Forus. Retrieved March 11, 2025, from https:// www.aippnet.org/indigenous -peoples -ai-algorithm -bias- 
poisoned -data 
16 Titcomb, J. (2024, February 21). Google chatbot ridiculed for ethnically diverse images of Vikings and knights. The Daily 
Telegraph. Retrieved March 11, 2025, from https:// www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2024/02/21/google -chatbot -ethnically - 
diverse -images -vikings -knights/  
17 Rodriguez -Lonebear,  D. (2016).  Building  a data revolution  in Indian  Country.  In T. Kukutai  & J. Taylor  (Eds.),  Indigenous 
data sovereignty: Toward an agenda (pp. 253 –260). University of Arizona Press.  
18 Rainie, S. C., et al. (2019). Indigenous data sovereignty. In T. Davies, et al. (Eds.), The state of open data: Histories and  
horizons (pp. 300 –307). African Minds.  


National  Congress  of American  Indians  | 1516  P St NW, Washington,  DC 20005  | (202)   | www.ncai.org  
7 3.Developing  frameworks  for ethically  incorporating  Tribal  perspectives  in AI training  data19
4.Creating  oversight  mechanisms  to evaluate  AI systems  that purport  to represent  Native  peoples
5.Requiring  Tribal  experts  to review  AI applications  to verify  historical  accuracy,  proper  context,  and
appropriate representation before deployment in systems affecting Tribal communities20
C.Strengthen  Tribal  Consent  Processes  for Efficient  Data  Utilization
Uncertainty around proper Tribal data usage by researchers, companies, and agencies hinders innovation while 
risking unauthorized access to sensitive information. Clear authorization processes would accelerate AI 
development  while  protecting  Tribal  rights.  NCAI  Resolution  #SAC -22-02621 specifically  addresses  how emerging 
technologies like AI can "circumvent Tribal data collection protocols" without proper consent.  The Resolution 
highlights  concern  about  automated  systems  extracting  data from  Tribal  citizens  without  ensuring  they have  a clear 
understanding of future uses of that data —directly violating fundamental American principles of property rights, 
informed consent, and self -determination.  
There are valid concerns about federal agencies or private entities developing AI systems that appropriate data 
belonging to Tribal Nations.  This is an abomination and should be expressly prohibited.  These practices can 
constitute copyright infringement or unauthorized collection. Unauthorized harvesting of Tribal data —such as 
traditional knowledge, cultural expressions, and community -generated content —violates Tribal sovereignty and 
intellectual property rights.  NCAI wishes to inform the federal partners involved in AI that Tribal Nations would 
likely treat such actions like any other violative theft, and would likely avail themselves of all governmental and 
legal means of protecting themselves, their communities, and citizens in such situations.  
Thus,  the AI Action  Plan should  include  strong  provisions  prohibiting  the scraping,  mining,  or other  non-consensual 
extraction of Tribal data for AI development, along with effective enforcement mechanisms that impose civil and 
criminal penalties for violations.  Policy actions include:  
1.Developing standardized, efficient consent protocols grounded in best practices for Indigenous Data
Governance
2.Establishing clear prohibitions against repurposing data collected from Tribal communities intended for
grant administration or determining program eligibility, for AI training or development without explicit,
informed consent from relevant Tribal governments
3.Developing secure data sharing frameworks that protect sensitive information while enabling innovation,
such as the National Institutes of Health’s (NIH) All of Us secure data enclave model (which NCAI
Resolution  #ABQ -19-06122 identified  as requiring  Tribal  oversight)  and monitored  computing
19 Whittaker, M., et al. (2018). AI Now Report 2018. AI Now Institute. https://ainowinstitute.org/wp - 
content/uploads/2023/04/AI_Now_2018_Report.pdf  
20 Harding, A., et al. (2012). Conducting research with tribal communities: Sovereignty, ethics, and data -sharing issues. 
Environmental Health Perspectives, 120(6), 6 –11. https://doi.org/10.1289/ehp.1103904  
21See NCAI Resolution #SAC -22-026 (June, 2022), https://ncai.assetbank -server.com/assetbank - 
ncai/action/viewAsset?id=266&index=0&total=721&view=viewSearchItem  (“Preventing Evasion of Tribal Nation Data 
Sovereignty in the Health Research Sector by Means of Technological Modernization in an Unsettled Regulatory Frontier”).  
22See NCAI Resolution #ABQ -10-061 (October, 2019), https://ncai.assetbank -server.com/assetbank - 
ncai/action/viewAsset?id=266&index=0&total=721&view=viewSearchItem  (“Calling on the National Institutes of Health to  


National  Congress  of American  Indians  | 1516  P St NW, Washington,  DC 20005  | (202)   | www.ncai.org  
8 environments like those described in the AI Now Report that restrict data extraction while enabling 
collaborative research  
4.Establishing expedited review processes for AI projects with Tribal data components that respect tribe -
specific protocols while utilizing common frameworks developed by the Center for Tribal Digital
Sovereignty to accelerate responsible innovation
D.Enhancing and Prioritizing Government -to-Government Consultation with Tribal
Nations
Slow -moving,  inefficient,  and often  stonewalling  federal  bureaucracies  create  significant  barriers  for Tribal  Nations 
to engage in meaningful consultation, leading to delays and poorly planned projects that often end in litigation. 
Enhancing and providing top prioritization of these processes would accelerate AI deployment, respect Tribal 
sovereignty, and reduce costly legal disputes.  Policy actions include:  
1.Creating  dedicated  fast-track  consultation  channels  for AI initiatives  that build  upon  established
consultation frameworks23
2.Establishing  clear  timelines  for Tribal  input  on AI policies  consistent  with government -to-government
relationship principles
3.Developing  efficient  dispute  resolution  mechanisms  for AI-related  concerns,  inspired  by models  like the
Native American Rights Fund’s (NARF) integration of traditional practices with legal frameworks and
the GDPR, ensuring culturally relevant, sovereign solutions to technology conflicts24
E.Overcome  Barriers  to AI Adoption  by Investing  in Strategic  Infrastructure
Development in Indian Country
Investing in AI infrastructure in Indian Country offers a transformative opportunity to empower Tribal Nations 
while  strengthening  U.S. AI competitiveness.  With  one in three  Native  Americans  lacking  reliable  internet  access 
and Tribal  businesses  serving  as some  of the largest  employers  in rural  areas,  AI infrastructure  can bridge  significant 
gaps in connectivity,  job creation,  and economic  growth.25 However,  it is critical  to prioritize  responsible  siting  of 
data centers  and AI-related  facilities,  as these  can have  negative  environmental  impacts, including  excessive  water  
Consult with Tribal Nations and Establish Policies and Guidance for Tribal Oversight of Data on Tribal Citizens Enrolled in 
the All of Us Research Program”).  
23 Carroll, S. R., Rodriguez -Lonebear, D., & Martinez, A. (2019). Indigenous data governance: Strategies from United States 
Native Nations. Data Science Journal, 18 , 31–43. https://doi.org/10.5334/dsj -2019 -031 
24 European Parliament & Council of the European Union. (2016). Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on the protection of natural 
persons  with regard  to the processing  of personal  data and on the free movement  of such data. Official  Journal  of the European 
Union, L 119, 1 –88. https://gdpr -info.eu/  
25 Mejía, D. (2024, June 18). American Indian and Alaska Natives in Tribal Areas Have Among the Lowest Rates of High - 
Speed Internet Access. U.S. Census Bureau. https:// www.census.gov/library/stories/2024/06/american -indian -and-alaska - 
natives -in-tribal -areas -have-among -lowest -rates-of-high-speed -internet -access.html  


National  Congress  of American  Indians  | 1516  P St NW, Washington,  DC 20005  | (202)   | www.ncai.org  
9 and land use, and high energy consumption, which could place unnecessary strain on Tribal resources.26 Early 
Tribal  input  in planning  is essential  to address  these  concerns  and prevent  legal  delays.  By integrating  sustainable 
practices from the outset and aligning with Tribal values and long -term stewardship of natural resources, these 
projects can minimize negative impacts and ensure these resources are safeguarded.  
Like the many internet and technology -based economies in our nation and worldwide, AI -driven businesses could 
be a “game changer” in the maze of geopolitical and socioeconomic challenges of Tribal economies.  Tribal 
governments are often hampered by limited taxing authority, reducing revenue that could be reinvested to support 
aspiring  entrepreneurs  and Tribal  start-ups. By fostering  AI-driven  industries,  Tribal  Nations  can gain control  over 
their own data and resources, creating jobs, stimulating local economies, and unlocking significant economic 
potential.  This approach can help establish a sustainable path to economic self -sufficiency, benefiting both Tribal 
Nations and the broader national AI ecosystem. Policy actions include:  
1.Allocating resources for high -speed connectivity in Tribal communities, addressing documented
connectivity gaps27
2.Creating  public -private  partnerships  for AI computing  infrastructure  in underserved  Tribal  areas
3.Establishing Tribal data centers that contribute to national AI capabilities while preserving Tribal control
over data, with enhanced consent framework, respect for sovereignty, and public -private partnership
support
F.Implement  Efficient  Cultural  Protection  Mechanisms
The widespread  and comical  technological  cultural  appropriation  and stereotyping  of American  Indian  and Alaska 
Native cultures, traditions, and knowledge is simply shameful.  Protecting Indigenous Knowledge (IK) enhances 
the integrity and distinctiveness of American AI innovation by integrating diverse cultural perspectives, ethical 
principles, and sustainable practices deeply rooted in Indigenous traditions.  This approach not only enriches AI 
development  but also ensures  that technologies  are more  holistic  and inclusive,  reflecting  the strength  of America’s 
diverse history and culture.  By weaving together Indigenous wisdom with cutting -edge technology, we promote 
both cultural preservation and a more robust, innovative AI ecosystem. Policy actions include:  
1.Developing guidelines for classifying sensitive cultural information based on research protocols, aligned
with the American Indian Religious Freedom Act (AIRFA) to protect Indigenous knowledge and uphold
values of freedom, cultural heritage, and religious rights in AI innovation
2.Creating  secure  repositories  for authorized  cultural  data that follow  sovereignty  principles
3.Establishing protocols for cultural attribution in AI that uphold Indigenous knowledge ownership, ensure
proper compensation, and treat IK as intellectual property, preventing exploitation and theft by the less
scrupulous tech companies while encouraging those that follow these ethical principles
26 Luccioni,  S. (2024,  December  18). Generative  AI and climate  change  are on a collision  course.  WIRED. 
https:// www.wired.com/story/true -cost-generative -ai-data-centers -energy/  
27 Federal  Communications  Commission.  (2019).  Report  on broadband  deployment  in Indian  country,  pursuant  to the Repack 
Airwaves Yielding Better Access for Users of Modern Services Act of 2018 . Federal Communications Commission.  


National  Congress  of American  Indians  | 1516  P St NW, Washington,  DC 20005  | (202)   | www.ncai.org  
10  
  
G. Support  Strategic  Tribal  Workforce  Development  
Expanding the AI -skilled workforce is critical to American competitiveness. Tribal communities represent a 
valuable  talent  resource,  with Native  leaders  such as Mason  Grimshaw  and Michael  Running  Wolf  already  making 
strides in fields like computer science and artificial intelligence.  This demonstrates the immense potential for 
American AI dominance.28 Indian gaming operations have developed and platformed a skilled professional class 
with expertise  in cybersecurity  and IT infrastructure  who possess  valuable  skills  in network  security,  data protection, 
and regulatory compliance.29 There is a significant opportunity to enhance these capabilities to address broader 
Tribal Digital Sovereignty issues, such as AI implementation and data governance.  Investing in upskilling this 
talent  pool could  strengthen  Tribal  Nations'  digital  sovereignty  and contribute  to technological  advancement  in the 
U.S. Policy  actions  include:  
1. Investing  in targeted  STEM  education  in Tribal  communities,  addressing  documented  technology  gaps 
2. Creating  apprenticeship  programs  connecting  Tribal  citizens  with AI industries  to build  capacity  
3. Developing  specialized  training  programs  to expand  the expertise  of existing  Indian  gaming  IT 
professionals into broader digital sovereignty applications  
4. Establishing  pathways  for Tribal  AI entrepreneurs  to access  capital  and markets  based  on successful  models 
in Tribal technology development  
 
H. Develop  Balanced  Regulatory  Approaches  
Overly restrictive regulations on AI development risk hampering innovation.  A balanced approach would protect 
legitimate Tribal interests while enabling technological advancement.  Policy actions include:  
 
1. Creating  regulatory  zoning  or “sandboxes”  for AI projects  led by Tribal  Nations,  utilizing  Tribal  data and 
addressing community needs to foster innovation, support Tribal businesses with grants, stimulate 
economic growth, and increase federal funding for Tribal Nations and Tribal Colleges and Universities, 
ensuring high return of investment (ROI)  
2. Establishing  clear  safe harbors  for responsible  AI development  that safeguards  Tribal  data sovereignty  
3. Developing proportional enforcement mechanisms that protect innovation while addressing documented 
AI risks  
I. Incorporate  Tribal  Security  Considerations  in National  Defense  
Tribal lands and data represent strategic national assets, including resources like energy, critical minerals, water 
rights, biodiversity, and unique cultural knowledge.  Incorporating them into security frameworks strengthens 
America's overall AI resilience.  Policy actions include:  
 
 
28 Grimshaw, M., Running Wolf, M., & IndigiGenius Team. (2023). Lakota AI Code Camp. IndigiGenius. Retrieved March 
11, 2024, from https:// www.lakotaai.org  
29 Thompson,  O. (2019).  Tribal  gaming  and educational  outcomes  in the next generation.  Journal  of Policy  Analysis  and 
Management, 38(3), 629 -652. https://doi.org/10.1002/pam.22129  


National  Congress  of American  Indians  | 1516  P St NW, Washington,  DC 20005  | (202)   | www.ncai.org  
11 1.Establishing  government -to-government  partnerships  that respect  Tribal  sovereignty  while  addressing
shared security concerns
2.Developing  collaborative  cybersecurity  initiatives  with Tribal  governments30
3.Creating  information -sharing  protocols  for threat  detection  and response  consistent  with Tribal  data
governance strategies31
Conclusion:  
These approaches will help the federal government meet its trust responsibility while promoting technological 
advancement and economic competitiveness as outlined in Executive Order 14179.  The recommended policy 
actions aim to enhance America's global leadership in AI by removing barriers to Tribal Nation participation, 
expanding the nation's AI capabilities, and unlocking innovations that draw on the talents of a bright Native 
workforce and Indigenous knowledge.  
We do not support  unchecked  AI development;  rather,  we insist  that Tribal  Nations  must  have  meaningful  influence 
in shaping  and governing  AI technologies.  This is not about  compromise,  but about  ensuring  that any technological 
advancement  fully  respects  and protects  tribal  sovereignty,  cultural  heritage,  and data rights.  Such  protection  fulfills 
the United States' non -negotiable obligations under federal trust responsibility and treaty commitments. By 
eliminating  participation  barriers,  we enable  Tribal  Nations  to engage  with AI according  to their values,  advancing 
innovation while preserving their sovereign rights.  
NCAI, through its Center for Digital Sovereignty and Institute for Environmental Sovereignty, is committed and 
ready to  work  with the Trump  Administration  to develop  an AI Action  Plan that strengthens America's position  as 
the global AI leader while ensuring that the 574 federally recognized Tribal Nations, and their institutions, 
communities, and citizens can fully participate in and benefit from AI innovation.  
Respectfully,  
Larry Wright, Jr. 
Executive  Director  
National  Congress  of American  Indians  
NOTE:  This document is approved for public dissemination.  The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information.  Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan 
and associated documents without attribution.  
30 See NCAI Resolution #DEN -18-012 (December, 2018), https://archive.ncai.org/resources/resolutions/support -for-tribal - 
nations -access -to-cyber -security -services -and-funding  (“Support for Tribal Nations’ Access to Cyber Security Services and 
Funding”).  
31 First Nations Information Governance Centre. (2014). Ownership, control, access and possession (OCAP ™): The path to 
First Nations information governance . The First Nations Information Governance Centre.  


