1100 13th Street NW , Third Floor  
Washington , DC 20005  
phone  
fax 
www. ncqa.org  
Better health  care. Better choices. Better health.  
March 15, 2025  
AI Action Plan  
Attn: Faisal D’Souza, NCO  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA, 22314  
Dear Faisal D’Souza : 
The National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) thanks you for the opportunity to 
provide feedback on the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development 
(NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO), National Science Foundation AI Action Plan 
request for information.  
NCQA is a private, 501(c)(3) not -for-profit, independent organization dedicated to improving 
health care quality through our Accreditation and measurement programs. We are a national 
leader in quality oversight and a pioneer in quality measurement. Leverag ing our strengths as a 
trusted third party, we are committed to helping organizations navigate the challenges 
associated with  transitioning to a digital future . Our mission to improve the quality of health for 
all Americans  propels our daily work.  
NCQA is pleased to provide the following comments on AI governance and  standards -based AI 
models  for effective outputs  in health  care in response to the  AI Action Plan request for 
information.  
NCQA has been at the forefront of  digital  enhancements in the health  care industry by enabling 
organization s to move towards digital quality measure ment ; defining and driving adoption of 
national digital health data standards ; improving data quality for actionable quality initiatives  and 
encouraging health plans  and care delivery organizations to adopt practices that accelerate 
health data exchange. NCQA sees artificial intelligence  (AI) as a crucial tool in the advancement 
of these  health  care processes. Through our rigorous, expert -based process  for developing 
standards and measures , NCQA is currently seeking public comment  from industry partners on 
topics relating to AI that include auditing, monitoring, validation , error handling and incident 
management , bias mitigation  and t ransparency.  As a leader in accreditation and standards 
innovation , NCQA aims  to promote the adoption of AI best practices  by health plans and 
providers . 
AI Governance  and Accountability  
NCQA recognizes the potential for AI technologies to improve health care delivery and augment 
the work of practitioners and patients seeking to achieve better health outcomes. As these 
technologies are introduced, AI Governance is essential to ensure AI systems are being applied 
responsibly and effectively.  Organizations should aim to have an effective AI governance 
structure and process that is accountable for tracking  AI use -cases, assess ing the risks of AI 


www. ncqa.org  
 Better health  care. Better choices. Better healt h. 2 
systems  and monitor ing the impact of AI tools  on practitioners  and patients . Through improved 
AI governance  and accountability , organizations can reduce the risk to patients as AI systems 
are implemen ted and monitor for desired AI outputs  and quality care  delivery . With proper 
governance, AI systems will lead to efficient care delivery, reduce administrative burden and 
promote better patient experience at the point of care.  
Effective  Standards -based AI Models 
NCQA’s Accreditation programs help health organizations  across the nation  by meeting 
standards that ensure  their processes  meet industry best practices , protect patients  and 
promote better care deliver y. AI models should be built based on standards that organizations 
rely on to  enhance current processes , reduce administrative burden and meet the standard for 
high quality care delivery  – without reinventing the workflow . Standards -based  AI models allow 
organizations to be confident in AI model outputs because they are applicable to established 
processes, produce real-time feedback and improvements and help organizations achieve 
quality goals . Standards -based AI models will also improve quality measure ment workflows by 
automating processes, improving accuracy and supporting  clinician decisions with advance 
analytics . Through the use of s tandards -based AI model s, organizations will establish the 
foundation to conti nuously  evolve and adapt their AI systems , streamline current operations and  
meet emerging health  care challenges.  
Thank you for the opportunity to comment. We remain committed to working with the  NITRD, 
NCO , the federal government and the Administration  to build a more efficient  and responsible 
American health care system. We welcome a discussion on our experience and our 
recommendations to continue to strengthen government  proposals for an AI-enabled future . If 
you have any questions, please contact me at  or at 
Sincerely,  
Eric J. Musser   
Vice Pr esident , Federal Affairs  
National Committee for Quality Assurance  


