ncsl.org  | @NCSLorg  
Denver 7700 East First Place, Denver CO 80230  | Washington D.C.  444 North Capitol Street, N.W. Suite 515, Washington, D.C. 20001  
1 
Wayne A. Harper
John Snyder
Tim StoreyMarch 14, 2025  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development  
National Coordination Office,  National Science Foundation 
Attn: Faisal D'Souza, NCO  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
Re: AI Action Plan  
To Whom It May Concern:  
Thank you for the opportunity to submit t hese  comments on behalf of the National Conference of State 
Legislatures (NCSL), the bipartisan organization representing the legislatures of our nation’s states, territories , 
commonwealths  and the District of Columbia . This document is approved for public dissemination. The 
document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
State legislatures are America’s laboratories of democracy and are the bodies willing and able to tackle 
emerging challenges. Currently , legislatures are wrestling with the most complex new technology  issues and 
testing innovative solutions.  Regarding AI, our bipartisan organization is  working with  all levels of governments 
and private industry to better understand A I and the myriad  of opportunities and challenges surrounding its 
use. NCSL strongly believes intergovernmental  collaboration  is essential to develo ping a strong AI action plan 
to ensure this new technology is being used to enhance America’s leadership and support and advance our 
citizens,  businesses and communities.  
Provided below are several resources  NCSL  has created  to help states  understand the basics of AI , learn its 
limitations , decide whether and when regulation may be necessary, and  how it might be used across all 
sectors to encourage and advance innovation. NCSL ’s best asset s, however, are our members : state legislators 
and legislative staff. As representatives closer to the people, t hese policymakers have been working across 
aisles in their states with the goal of fully realizing the  benefits  AI brings, mitigat ing its potential  risks  and 
educat ing our citi zens to help  build trust in this  nascent technology.  The vast expertise developed by state 
legislators and their staff across all areas of  AI, as well as in the areas of privacy and cybersecurity, is nothing 
short of  remarkable , having studied, drafted, introduced and enacted hundreds of state bills over the past 
several years.  NCSL  encourage s the administration  to solicit input from a bipartisan group of  legislators  as it 
begin s and continues  any stakeholder conversations and meetings  to develo p an AI action plan  for America. 
NCSL and its members stand ready to work across party lines and with all stakeholders  to help facilitate such 

2 exchanges , to develop a  meaningful plan  that unlocks the full potential of AI for America while identifying and 
mitigating  any potential  dangers . 
NCSL’s work in the AI arena has taken many shapes. Our organization  has a  longstanding  Task Force on Artiﬁcial 
Intelligence, Cybersecurity and Privacy  compr i sed  of a bipartisan group of legislators from around the country  
with expertise in these important areas . The goal of the task force is to facilitate  the exchange of ideas  among 
legislators and private sector partners and  to discuss and unpack practical solutions  and legislative 
recommendations  related to  how AI can  unlock potential while protecting consumer safety. This includes  
improving  eﬃciency, decision -making and the delivery of government services, help ing to upskill workers to 
take advantage of new job opportunities  without compromising privacy and safety,  enabl ing law enforcement 
to better detect, investigate and solve crimes, and improv ing health outcomes, to name a few areas of 
discussion and focus . Additional information about NCSL’s Task Force on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, Cybersecurity 
and Privacy can be accessed through the link above.  The task force has produced several recent publications  
highlighting  state  and federal legislative initiatives related to AI, as well as government and private sector 
collaborations. 
AI Reports  and Articles:  
AI Policy Toolkit  
AI Primer  
Government Use  
Elections  
Workplace  
Law Enforcement  
AI Trends  
In addition to the work of our task force, NCSL  maintains a comprehensive database on all state -level  AI work, 
including legislation across all 50 states that has been introduced and enacted, as well as corresponding 
databases on cybersecurity  and privacy . During  the 2024 state legislative session s, most U.S.  states and 
Washington, D.C.  introduced AI bills and at least 31 states adopted resolutions or enacted legislatio n. Thus far 
in 2025,  46 states have introduced over 600 pieces of AI legislation  on topics ranging from the use of AI in 
housing , health care, e mployment, criminal justice and education,  to name a few areas . 
State Legislation  
AI State Legislation  
Ar tiﬁcial Intelligence 2024 Legislation  
Artiﬁcial Intelligence 2023 Legislation  
Deepfake State Legislation  
Deceptive Audio or Visual Media (‘Deepfakes’) 2024 Legislation  
Cybersecurity State Legislation  
2024  Cybersecurity Legislation  
2023  Cybersecurity Legislation  
Privacy State  Legislation  
2024  Consumer Data Privacy Legislation  
2023  Consumer Data Privacy Legislation  

3 NCSL relies on its 11 standing committees , compr ised of bipartisan legislators from around the country,  to 
develop  policy on state -federal issues that guide  our organization ’s advocacy work in Washington, D.C . NCSL 
does not engage in state -level advocacy. The NCSL Standing Committee on Technology and Communications  
developed a  policy resolution on AI in 2024, which was approved by the full NCSL membership . The resolution 
supports intergovernmental collaboration and a  public awareness and education campaign to help Americans 
better understand AI technology . NCSL’s AI policy also calls for thorough  and ongoing  research on AI 
technologies with the National Science Foundation, the National Institute of Standards and Technology and  
other agencies  for use by all levels of governments  and federal laws that set a strong baseline of rights while 
preserving  states’ ability to adopt their own laws to keep pace with  rapid AI technological advances.  
NCSL AI Resolution : Policies for the Jurisdiction of the Technology and Communications Standing Committee  
AI is transforming our economy, how citizens live and work and how countries interact with each other. Much 
has been written and said about the “patchwork ” of state laws that have appeared over the years legislating 
on AI and privacy and the diﬃculty this governing approach creates for those working in this space. To the 
contrary, NCSL believes state legislative leadership has created expertise where little  existed  in government , 
bipartisan innovative regulatory frameworks to review and model at the federal level, consumer education and 
awareness  to build trust in something new, complex  and unfamiliar , and collaboration across states a s well as  
with civic organizations and private industry.  State lawmakers are keenly aware that the ir window of 
opportunity is short, and the sense of urgency is high , and they plan  to continue focus ing on their mission to 
study and manage this powerful technology responsib ly while  not stiﬂing the beneﬁts  and opportunities it 
brings . 
We look forward to working closely with the a dministration and others to bring state policymakers’  expertise 
to bear as you develo p a pl an to solidify America ’s positio n as the leader i n AI and secure a brighter future for 
all Americans. For additional information or questions,  you may contact us directly or NCSL’s legislative 
director, Technology and Communications,  Barrie Tabin. 
Thank y ou. 
Sincerel y, 
Wayne Harper  
NCSL President   
President Pro Tempore  
Utah Senate  Marcus C. Evans, Jr.  
NCSL President Elect  
Assistant Majority Leader 
Illinois General Assembly  

