This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  Before the 
OFFICE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY  
THE WHITE HOUSE  
Washington,  D.C. 20502 
Request for Information on the Development 
of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  ) 
) 
) 
) OSTP-TECH-2025-02305 
COMMENTS  OF NCTA – THE INTERNET  & TELEVISION  ASSOCIATION  
Rick Chessen  
Loretta Polk  
Traci Biswese 
NCTA – The Internet & Television Association  
25 Massachusetts  Avenue, NW  
Suite 100  
Washington, DC  20001 
March 14, 2025 


This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  TABLE OF CONTENTS  
I.INTRODUCTION  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............. 1 
II.NCTA MEMBERS ARE RESPONSIBLY DEPLOYING AI TECHNOLOGY  ............... 3 
III.MAXIMIZING THE DEVELOPMENT AND DEPLOYMENT OF AI IN
THE U.S. REQUIRES A SINGULAR, PRO -INNOVATION APPROACH  ....................  4 
A.The U.S. Should Develop a Uniform National Framework to Displace
the Discordant Patchwork of State Regulations ................................ ......................  4 
B.Any National Framework Should Actually Target the Needs of AI  ......................  6 
C.The Framework Should Be Risk -Based and Avoid Undue Prescriptions
of Activities  ................................ ................................ ................................ ............. 7 
D.The Framework Should Emphasize Industry -Led Transparency and
Security Practices  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 9 
IV.FOSTERING WIDESPREAD ADOPTION OF AI IN THE U.S. REQUIRES
CONCERTED EFFORTS TO ENSURE ACCESS AND TRAINING, AND
INCREASE INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION  ................................ ........................  10 
A.The U.S. Should Prioritize Increased Access to Broadband and
Increasing Network Capacity  ................................ ................................ ................  10 
B.The Framework Should Also Ensure U.S. End -Users Are Well -Versed
in How to Use AI Tools  ................................ ................................ ........................  11 
C.International Cooperation Is Urgent and Necessary to Protect National
Security ................................ ................................ ................................ .................  12 
V.INTRODUCING NEW IP OR COPYRIGHT REGULATIONS RELATED
TO GENERATIVE AI IS PREMATURE AT THE PRESENT MOMENT  ....................  13 
VI.CONCLUSION  ................................ ................................ ................................ .................  14 


This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  I.INTRODUCTION
NCTA – The Internet & Television Association (NCTA) welcomes the opportunity to
participate in this Request for Information to assist in the development of a national Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (Plan).1  The Administration’s initiatives to remove barriers to 
American leadership in AI are admirable, and particularly relevant to our members.2  NCTA 
members are among the world’s largest and most advanced broadband network providers.  They 
provide cutting -edge video, voice, and data services nationwide .  As developers3 of customized AI 
systems and deployers of AI technology, NCTA members use AI to improve customers’ 
experiences by improving customer service and offerings, and enhancing network operations and 
security.  Simultaneously, NCTA members provide the backbone infrastructure necessary to 
support AI infrastructure, including data centers and cloud infrastructure , developer training of AI 
systems, and widespread user access to AI applications .  NCTA members also constitute some of 
the largest content creators that inform and entertain milli ons across the globe.   In that capacity, 
they are both creators of copyrighted materials for consumers and users of AI to generate and 
enhance content .  NCTA members’ multifaceted roles in the AI ecosystem give NCTA both a 
vested interest in , and a broad perspective on,  the discussion of policy needs to ensure continued 
American leadership in the AI sector.  
In his first term, President Trump established a pro -innovation, light -touch regulatory 
environment for AI .  The President has renewed and extended his vision by committing to fostering 
1 Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan , 90 Fed. Reg. 9088 (Feb. 
6, 2025 ), https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/02/06/2025 -02305/request -for-information -on-the-
development -of-an-artificial-intelligence -ai-action-plan. 
2See Exec. Order No. 14179, , § 1, 90 Fed. Reg. 8741  (Jan. 23, 2025), 
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/01/31/2025 -02172/removing -barriers-to-american-leadership -in-
artificial-intelligence  (“2025 AI Executive Order ”) (“With the right Government policies, we can solidify our position 
as the global leader in AI and secure a brighter future for all Americans.”) . 
3 NCTA members are generally deployers  of AI, but in some cases will use foundation models developed by others 
as inputs to  their own customized AI systems. 


2 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  innovation and “ensuring that all Americans benefit from the technology and its transformational 
potential.”4  NCTA supports the development of a Plan to establish risk -based, non -prescriptive 
federal principles, prioritize responsible development and deployment of AI, and ensure  the safety 
and security of Americans by prioritizing the protection of national security interests.  To this end, 
NCTA encourages the Administration to work with Congress to enact legislation in the 119 th 
Session that builds on Congress’ s bicameral and bipartisan legislative efforts on AI and advanc e 
the important AI work by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) .  Urgently, 
this federal framework should entirely preempt the already growing patchwork of state AI laws.  
Alongside a light -touch, pro -growth, and pro -innovation framework, NCTA advocates for 
encouraging continued expansion of the nation’s broadband infrastructure necessary for 
widespread access to AI at a faster pace.  The Plan should continue to support investment in the 
digital infrastructure buildout and workforce development necessary to ensure Americans can 
harness the powers of AI .  Officials should also work with academia, business, community -based 
organizations , and state and local governments to ensure that America’s job training programs are 
well-suited to handle the robust needs of the AI -powered future .  Additionally, the U.S. must 
protect its interests by working collaboratively with allies globally to ensure level playing fields 
and protect its national security interests .  
Finally, it is premature to regulate the thorny IP and copyright issues that presently face 
AI.  While the  courts address nascent legal questions  involving AI and IP , policymak ers should 
hold off on taking any action to let the courts do their work.  This will provide the time and space 
4 James David Vance, Vice President of the United States, Keynote Address at the Paris AI Summit , YouTube , at 5:11 
(Feb. 11, 2025), https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=64E9O1Gv99o .  


3 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  for all to understand how the current law applies rather than imp rudently and hastily advancing  
new polic ies with unknown repercussions.  
II.NCTA MEMBERS ARE RESPONSIBLY DEPLOYING AI TECHNOLOGY
AI is a versatile technology that has a broad range of applications across industries.   NCTA
members responsibly deploy AI technologies to optimize customer experiences, enhance 
operations, and deliver seamless and secure connectivity.   
Customer Experience.  Comcast uses AI to improve consumer accessibility and 
interactivity using voice recognition and speech -to-text technologies.  Charter Communications  
uses AI systems to improve customer service calls and responses, including providing proactive 
responses to assist with customer inquiries.  Both companies use AI digital assistants to help 
troubleshoot customer concerns.   Cox uses AI to help manage contact centers and predict customer 
inquiries to allow the company to address concerns proa ctively and efficiently.  
Enhanced Operations.  Charter uses AI to improve operations by, among other things, 
providing AI -generated call summaries to field agents to respond more effectively on house calls.  
Comcast has AI tools to monitor, analyze, and enhance operations in real time, identifying 
potential network issues well in advance of any possible failure, and has  automated 99  percent of 
its routing and back -end processing functions using AI  to increase efficiency  in managing network 
traffic. Cox, similarly, uses AI in its so ftware development lifecycle  – improving  product usability 
and accelerat ing feature delivery while enhancing development efficiency through AI -assisted 
coding and automation.  
Enhanced Security.  AI is also a vital tool for NCTA members’ efforts to securely manage 
connectivity for customers  as they deploy innovative AI tools to defend their networks, and their 
customers ’ networks, against cybersecurity threats.   AI tools allow consumers to identify and block 


4 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  potential threats before they cause harm, address security gaps in real time, and decrease downtime 
after an attack.  As bad actors grow more savvy and technically advanced, AI is providing an 
important bulwark against increasing threats.   
These are just some examples of how NCTA’s broadband network operating members use 
AI to improve the product for consumers.   NCTA members continue to innovate, deploy, and use 
AI in new ways to ensure optimal customer satisfaction.  
III.MAXIMIZING THE DEVELOPMENT AND DEPLOYMENT OF AI IN THE U.S.
REQUIRES A SINGULAR, PRO -INNOVATION APPROACH
To maximize continued American leadership in AI, t he Plan should encourage the
deployment of AI by  adopting clear, non -prescriptive standards that broadly preempt disparate 
state regulations on AI .  This framework should continue the work done by bipartisan commissions 
in the House5 and Senate6 on this subject and  empower NIST to set neutral standards to unlock 
AI’s power . 
A.The U.S. Should Develop a Uniform National Framework to Displace a
Discordant Patchwork of State Regulations
To foster the growth of the nascent AI industry and  ensure that the United States  remains 
at the forefront  of AI development, deployment, and adoption, the Administration should work 
with Congress to create a unified federal approach to AI comprised of a set of neutral standards 
for AI developers and deployers that would preempt the myriad of state laws currently being 
introduced and enacted around the country.  A uniform national framework for AI is necessary to 
5 Bipartisan Artificial Intelligence Task Force , Bipartisan House Task Force Report on Artificial Intelligence , 118th 
Cong. (Dec. 2024), https://republicans -science.house.gov/_cache/files/a/a/aa2ee12f -8f0c-46a3-8ff8-8e4215d6a72b/
A163BDB F496ADA 741F831E5BEBBCA06699B6AFF8CC34F4FDC4065BDA298295DF.ai -task-force-report-
final.pdf (AI Task Force Report) . 
6 Bipartisan Senate AI Working Group , Driving U.S. Innovation in Artificial Intelligence, a Roadmap for Artificial 
Intelligence Policy in the United States Senate  (May 2024), t https://www.schumer.senate.gov/ imo/media/doc/
Roadmap_Electronic1.32pm.pdf .  


5 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  bolster national security and American leadership and to avoid the unenviable developments 
plaguing data privacy policy, which has seen states fill the void left by the absence of a federal 
framework by creating a patchwork of differing – sometimes contradictory – state-level standards, 
restrictions, qualificati ons, and penalties.   
There is increasing  need for a national AI framework with strong preemption .  As with data 
privacy, t he state-by-state patchwork scenario will play out with AI .  States have begun  taking 
steps to regulate the technology in ways that will create conflict and inconsistency  between states .7  
Varying state AI laws will create uncertainty that will stifle innovation and investment  by forcing 
companies to make national investment decisions under several different regulatory regimes at 
once.  As the Bipartisan U.S. House Task Force on AI report recently found, “[a]bsent a uniform 
approach, different states can adopt different, ambiguous, or even conflicting regulatory 
requirements that are enforced by disparate state agencies   [and which] create obstacles that 
businesses across the country struggle to comply with as they are forced to engage with numerous 
state legislators and agencie s.”8  This leaves industry with two options: play regulatory hopscotch 
and provide different services and use different technology based only on geography , or conduct 
a “race to the bottom” to comply with the most onerous state -level regulations .  Consumers lose 
in both instances because the patchwork approach jeopardizes  investment in developing innovative 
new technologies and drastically increases regulatory compliance costs .  Further, states with higher 
levels of “consumer protection” may  deprive their citizens access to the most  efficient services 
because. As described above , AI has been implemented in ways to enhance the consumer 
experience , and more stringent consumer protection laws could prohibit consumer access to 
7 See, e.g., Colo. Rev. Stat. § 6-1-1701. Colorado passed the first comp rehensive state legislation . Other states have 
used this approach but with divergent requirements . 
8 AI Task Force Report at 27.  


6 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  services from which they would otherwise benefit.  However, federal preemption could “benefit 
businesses and individuals operating in multiple states since it [would] establish[] one consistent 
approach to compliance.”9 
Existing laws of general applicability at the state and local level such as anti-fraud, anti -
discrimination, and consumer protection laws would still apply  to AI.  As such, states and localities 
will continue to have strong tools against misuse of AI without forcing AI developers or deployers 
to operate within a patchwork regulatory environment .  However, the current cacophony of state 
data privacy laws may undermine any preemptive , pro-innovation AI framework .  Without 
preemption  of state data privacy laws , regardless of federal rules, states may inadvertently regulate 
AI models by regulating the underlying data used to train models or tools .  
B.Any National Framework Should Actually Target the Needs of AI
An AI regulatory framework should also target the unique risks and opportunities 
associated with AI technology and applications .  As just one example, “there is no universal legal 
definition of AI ,”10 which means that each new law creates substantial costs for developers and 
deployers and may confuse consumers as to what their protections and rights are .  Further, many 
definitions currently being considered in legislation and regulations around the country – including 
the definition  used in the Executive Order giving rise to this RFI11 – are so broad that they arguably 
incorporate activities and technologies NCTA members have deployed prior to the development 
of Large Language Models .  For example, some  AI definitions are so broad as to arguably include 
9 AI Task Force Report at 27.  
10 AI Task Force Report at 26. 
11 See 2025 AI Executive Order, § 3, referencing 15 U.S.C. § 9401(3) (defining AI as “a machine -based system that 
can, for a given set of human -defined objectives, make predictions, recommendations [,] or decisions influencing real 
or virtual environments” and which “perceive real and virtual environments ,” “abstract such perceptions into models 
through analysis in an automated manner ,” and “use model inference[s] to formulate options for information or 
action.”). 


7 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  Excel Spreadsheets that have automated functions programmed into them or routers that direct 
internet traffic.  By working with industry to set definitions and standards that are pro-innovation, 
this Administration can ensure that American ingenuity is unlocked to its fullest . 
C.The Framework Should Be Risk-Based and Avoid Undue Prescriptions of
Activities
Risk allocation is an important factor in the development and deployment of AI 
technology.12  The Plan should adopt a risk -based framework  that avoids prescriptive regulation 
in favor of standards developers and deployers can understand  and use to make informed decisions 
about benefits, potential harms, and appropriate mitigation measures.13   
In a number of contexts, including AI , NIST has served as a productive venue for industry 
to collaborate on common technical issues and concerns and create objective standards without 
relying on prescriptive regulations which need regular, onerous updates as technology progresses. 
NIST “promote[s] U.S. innovation and industrial competitiveness by advancing … standards [] … 
in ways that enhance economic security and improve[s]” quality of life.14  Under the leadership of 
this Administration , NIST can work with industry to create a common understanding and 
framework for AI best -practices and standards .  
The NIST AI Risk Management Framework is a good starting point.   The current NIST 
framework provides resource guides for organizations to identify, evaluate, and manage risks 
throughout the AI lifecycle, and these resources can be improved with a pro -innovation mandate. 
12 As noted by the NIST , AI Risk Management Framework, “Risk” should be identified as “the composite measure of 
an event’s probability of occurring and the magnitude (or degree) of the consequences of the corresponding events.”  
NIST, AI Risk Management Framework: Second Draft , at 7 (Aug. 18, 2022), https://www.nist.gov/system/files/
documents/2022/08/ 18/AI_RMF_2nd_draft.pdf  (“NIST Framework ”). 
13 This includes when irresponsible use of AI could lead to harms to civil liberties or civil rights .  However, NCTA 
focuses these comments on areas where it has the most experience and understands the risk factors best: data privacy, 
cybersecurity, and fraud detection.  
14 NIST, “About NIST ,” https://www.nist.gov/about -nist (updated Jan. 11, 2022).  


8 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  Public-private partnerships are essential for developing consensus -based technical and safety 
standards to address challenges related to open -source development and interoperability .  The 
more stakeholders involved in the development of these standards;  the more parties can ensure that 
AI technology is deployed responsibly.  
The AI Action Plan and any federal framework should recognize that AI is not a monolith 
and take a risk -based approach to regulation with high -risk AI subject to appropriately calibrated 
regulation.   High-risk AI includes AI systems and applications that pose a serious risk to economic 
security, public health , or safety, or is used to make a consequential decision based on lawfully 
protected characteristics without human oversight.   The types of data collected, and the data 
collection practices, should determine the necessary practices .  Creating a framework that allows 
creators and developers to “understand and account for the inherent uncertainties and inaccuracies 
in their models and systems”15 and adopt context -specific strategies is superior to a one -size-fits-
all regulation in a rapidly developing field with evolving opportunities and threats .  A national 
strategy on AI and related ly, a national strategy on  data privacy , should set basic minimum 
expectations of protections without prescribing the best or only means of satisfying them . 
Moreover, considering the rapid pace of development of AI technologies,  prescriptive government 
regulations  may be obsolete by the time they finish OMB review .  Developers that create high-risk 
AI should shoulder responsibility for ensuring that deployers can understand how the AI systems 
work and can help preven t fraud and ensure sensitive information remains safe.  
15 NIST Framework at 7. 


9 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  D.The Framework Should Emphasize Industry -Led Transparency and Security
Practices
Commensurate with a risk -based liability system, the national framework should 
emphasize transparency and security practices based on industry -set standards and encourage 
innovation .  The NIST Vision for Trustworthy AI16 emphasizes the need for “diverse stakeholder 
involvement” to build trustworthy AI technology .  Moreover, as the AI Task Force Report found, 
“private sector engagement in[,] and the development of[,] industry -led technical standards could 
help provide a rigorous technical basis to guide the proper use of AI systems in decision -making.”17  
Greater transparency involving industry, academia, community -based organizations, and 
government can “help ensure effective oversight of AI by the public and private sectors.”18  
Beyond ensuring that all stakeholders are well -represented during the standard -setting 
process, transparency into the underlying model is also singularly important for deployers of AI 
technology .  Any framework must ensure transparency for “high -risk” uses of consumer -facing 
products and products from developers to deployers.   Otherwise, those who interact with high-risk 
models will be left without sufficient understanding of the system or recourse to ensure compliance 
with any applicable standards and protect their own interests.  This is especially true where the 
data collector is the same as the developer .  Even where the developer is not the same entity that 
collects data, without transparency between  all parties, deployers and consumers will b e left 
without insights into how foundational models have been developed, what data is in them, and 
how those factors impact the outputs of those models.  
16 NIST, Trustworthy and Responsible AI , https://www.nist.gov/trustworthy -and-responsible -ai (last visited Mar. 14, 
2025). 
17 AI Task Force Report at 87.  
18 AI Task Force Repo rt at 87. 


10 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  Similarly, the Plan should incorporate security -by-design principles and best practices 
through multistakeholder, public -private collaborations .  The increasing reliance on vast datasets 
makes it essential to ensure privacy and security protections from design through deployment and 
use.  As the AI Task Force Report explained, AI “is inherently linked to issues of data: how to 
obtain large amounts of data, how to analyze data for patterns, and how to use those patterns to 
make predications” which can “inten tionally or unintentionally cause or exacerbate data privacy 
harms related to each of these facets.”19  NCTA members, which constitute the nation’s largest 
broadband providers, routinely deploy advanced measures like Resource Public Key Infrastructure 
(RPKI) and adhere to industry standards  on data protection .  NCTA members also participate in 
NIST processes to collaboratively develop cybersecurity guidelines.  These guidelines are 
collaboratively developed to ensure technology -agnostic principles and standards .  Under a pro -
innovation regime, NIST guidelines can go further in helping the industry self -govern. 
IV.FOSTERING WIDESPREAD ADOPTION OF AI IN THE U.S. REQUIRES
CONCERTED EFFORTS TO ENSURE ACCESS AND TRAINING, AND
INCREASE INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION
The creation of a pro -development and deployment Plan is necessary, but not sufficient, to
ensure American leadership in AI .  The United States  must also increase access to AI technologies 
by ensuring that America’s digital infrastructure is robust and invest in education and training to 
make sure America’s workforce can utilize AI .  
A.The U.S. Should Prioritize Increased Access to Broadband and Increasing
Network Capacity
NCTA members constitute the backbone of America’s broadband internet system and serve 
as access points for every actor within the AI ecosystem .  For successful AI research and 
19 AI Task Force Report at 38.  


11 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  deployment, high -capacity, secure, and energy -efficient broadband networks and data centers are 
essential.  Without high -speed, reliable internet infrastructure, AI cannot and will not reach its full 
potential in the United States .  Consumers and digital assistants  need robust internet connectivity 
to interact with one another .  Relatedly, many AI developers require the internet to access the 
Cloud where the tranches of data used to train AI models reside.20  Any framework adopted by the 
federal government should both encourage pro -consumer uses of AI like those adopted (and 
currently under development) by NCTA members, as well as promote the necessary development 
and upgrades to America’s infrastructure to e nsure that every American can access and harness 
the powers of AI.  Policymakers must incentivize investment in reliable, sustainable, energy -
efficient networks and hardware to drive innovation and deliver broad economic and 
environmental benefits .  
B.The Framework Should Also Ensure U.S. End -Users Are Well -Versed in How
to Use AI Tools
Beyond the physical infrastructure, the U nited States  must also invest in its human capital 
capabilities related to AI .  NCTA supports initiatives that address technical challenges like model 
explainability and safety standards along with education and workforce training programs .  Data 
from the National Skills Coalition (NSC) highlights the critical need for such investments.21  In its 
February 2023 report, the NSC found that “92 percent of all job ads require [] definitely digital or 
likely digital skills” but “nearly one -third of U.S. workers do not have foundational digital skills.”22  
To close this gap, the NSC Report stated that action is required by “both private employers and 
20 See, e.g., Off. of Tech. Staff, FTC Partnerships Between Cloud Service Providers and AI Developers: FTC Staff 
Report on AI Partnerships & Investments 6(b) Study , Section 5, at 29 -37 (Jan. 2025), 
https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/ p246201_aipartnerships6breport_redacted_0.pdf . 
21 Amanda Bergson -Shilcock & Roderick Taylor, Closing the Digital Skill Divide , Nat’l Skill Coal. (Feb. 2023) , 
https://nationalskillscoalition.org/wp -content/uploads/2023/02/NSC -DigitalDivide_report_Feb2023.pdf  (“NSC 
Research Report ”). 
22 NSC Research Report at 4.  


12 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  public policymakers.”23  This imperative will only increase as AI becomes an ever -more-important 
factor in the economic development policies and business’ s bottom lines.   
The Bipartisan AI Task Force Report also found that “[a]ddressing the future needs of the 
domestic AI industry must start with fostering  AI talent.  However, one of the major challenges to 
[that goal] is the lack of  widespread basic literacy in STEM concepts.”24  The Bipartisan Task 
Force Report also highlighted the importance of public -private partnerships, as “American 
leadership in many critical and emerging technologies has historically been rooted in the U.S. 
government -university -industry R&D ecosystem and workforce pipelines.”25  NCTA supports the 
Bipartisan Report’s conclusion that “AI literacy is crucial not only for developing a skilled 
workforce and positioning our nation as a leader in this critical field but also for mitigating ethical 
and other challenges associated with A I.”26  As NCTA members have begun deploying AI tools 
and technology to supplement their own workforces, ensuring adequate knowledge and 
understanding has been instrumental.  
C.International Cooperation Is Urgent and Necessary to Protect National
Security
While the U nited States  builds its AI systems, improves the necessary infrastructure, and 
expands workforce development for the AI -powered 21 st century, it must also ensure that it 
remains internationally competitive .  This will require international collaboration and cooperation 
with allies .  Increased cooperation, along with appropriate import and export controls to prevent 
technology transfers that would harm American interests, will ensure that American AI products 
23 NSC Research Report at 7. 
24 Bipartisan AI Task Force Report at 89. 
25 Bipartisan AI Task Force Report at 95. 
26 Bipartisan AI Task Force Report at 96. 


13 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  and tools remain cutting -edge and competitive .  Further, encouraging global norms and agreements 
enshrining AI oversight will help keep the playing field level.  
At the same time, although AI has immense potential for improving efficiency and quality 
of life, “[l]ike any major dual -use technology, AI has the potential to both bolster and undermine 
national security.”27  The Bipartisan AI Task Force Report found that AI is a critical component 
of national security, and that U.S. adversaries are “developing extremely advanced AI models, 
tools, and applications” which pose threats to U.S. interests.28  The U.S. Government is investing 
in both offensive and defensive AI capabilities , but any adopted national Plan must also prioritize 
protection of privately owned and operated systems, including the broadband infrastructure NCTA 
members build, maintain, and protect.  As noted above, NCTA members are using AI -powered 
security tools, which can learn and adjust in real -time, to guard their networks from attacks . 
However, as AI has the power to multiply the attacks against accessible systems in severity and 
number, any national framework should also prioritize protecting U.S. critical infrastructure.  
V.INTRODUCING NEW IP OR COPYRIGHT REGULATIONS RELATED TO
GENERATIVE AI IS PREMATURE AT THE PRESENT MOMENT
NCTA represents companies that produce and deliver engaging content to the American
people, help drive human creativity and ensure it flourishes in this country, and contribute 
significantly to the nation’s economic output.29  The AI Plan should ensure the intellectual property 
rights that are so important to these great American enterprises, and make America’s creative 
industries the envy of the world, are not undermined.  NCTA agrees with the Motion Picture 
Association’s rec ent Congressional testimony “that there is no need for legislation or special rules 
27 Bipartisan AI Task Force Report at 40. 
28 Bipartisan AI Task Force Report at 53. 
29 2025 AI Executive Order, § 2 (“It is the policy of the United States to sustain and enhance America ’s global AI 
dominance in order to promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security. ”) 


14 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  to apply copyright law in the context of AI” at present.30  With the advent of generative AI, courts 
have begun examining the scope of current IP and copyright laws in the United States.  Although 
AI technologies raise novel questions of human authorship and infringement, NCTA has seen little 
evidence they implicate anything beyond well -settled doctrines and principles of law.31   
Policymakers should leave the courts to apply existing copyright laws, which are robust 
and well-litigated.  Presently, courts are entertaining challenges to the Copyright Office’s decisions 
related to AI-generated or supplemented content32 and whether AI models trained on copyrighted 
materials infringe on those copyrights.33  NCTA has confidence that the nation’s copyright  laws 
are flexible enough to apply to new technologies.  This is not the time to short circuit or rethink a 
well-honed and well -operating system .  Policymakers should only engage in narrow, targeted, and 
informed ways to alter these laws if it becomes clear that the existing system has material gaps 
related to AI .  
VI.CONCLUSION
NCTA’s member companies are at the forefront of delivering high -speed, reliable internet
services underpinning AI -enabled applications  and creating the content which inspires billions.  
It cannot be overstated that a pro -innovation, light -touch regulatory environment based on 
flexible, risk -based standards, transparent development, and the establishment of a coherent and 
consistent national framework are vital for the continued developmen t of America’s AI future . 
30 Artificial Intelligence and Intellectual Property: Part III – IP Protection for AI -Assisted Inventions and Creative 
Works: Hearing Before the Subcomm. on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet of the H. Comm. on the 
Judiciary , 118th Cong. (statement of The Motion Picture Association, Inc.),  
https://www.congress.gov/118/meeting/house/117077/documents/HHRG -118-JU03-20240410 -SD001.pdf  (MPA 
Statement.  
31 MPA Statement  at 2; see also, compare , Burrow-Giles Lithographic Co. v. Sarony , 111 U.S. 53, 58 (1884) 
(explaining human authorship requirements for copyright protection) with Copyright Registration Guidance: Works 
Containing Material Generated by Artificial Intelligence , 88 Fed. Reg. 16190 (Mar. 16, 2023).  
32 See, e.g., Thaler v. Perlmutter , 687 F. Supp. 3d 140  (D.D.C. 2023); appeal docketed , No. 23-5233 (D.C. Cir. Oct. 
18, 2023).  
33 See, e.g., N.Y. Times Co. v. Microsoft Corp. , No. 1:23 -cv-11195 (S.D.N.Y. filed Dec. 27, 2023).  


15 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document 
contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  Broadly preempting state patchwork regulations are vital to maintain ing American 
competitiveness .  Beyond regulatory environments, continued investment in digital infrastructure 
and workforce development will be key to ensuring that the AI models developed and deployed in 
the United States supplement, rather than replace, workers in America’s economy .  Finally, 
policymakers should not preemptively amend IP protections without evidence current law is 
inadequate.  
NCTA looks forward to continuing dialogue with OSTP and all stakeholders to shape 
policies which support an innovative and secure AI future.  
Respectfully  submitted,  
/s/ Rick Chessen  
Rick Chessen 
Loretta Polk  
Traci Biswese 
NCTA – The Internet & Television Association  
25 Massachusetts  Avenue, NW  
Suite 100  
Washington, DC  20001 
March 14,  2025 


