March 14,  2025  
Mr. Faisal D’Souza 
National Coordination Oﬃce 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
Email Submission:  Document N umber: 2 025-02305  
Re: NDIA Comments on Development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence Action Plan1 
Dear Mr. D’Souza: 
The National Defense  Industrial Association (NDIA) appreciates the opportunity to provide comments 
on the request for information on the Development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
(“Plan”) by the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National 
Coordination Oﬃce (NCO) . 
NDIA is the nation's largest defense industry association , representing over 1 ,700 corporate  and over 
67,000 individual members from small, medium, and large contractors,  a majority of which are small 
businesses. NDIA members design, manufacture,  appl y, and maintain the cutting -edge technologies,  
systems,  and platforms that our armed forces rely upon to deter aggression and defend our nation 
and its interests. As such, our members' professional a nd informed views on this propose d rule reﬂect 
the c omplexity and nuance of the issue s under discussion. 
AI and Machine Learning (ML) are general- purpose technologies that can be leveraged across a wide 
range of use cases and offer tremendous benefits to society and nation al security. Today, major 
industries are utilizing AI to improve their product and service offerings to consumers, including 
everything from email spam filters to auton omous vehicles.  
The U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) identifies AI as a te chnology with disruptive potential for 
defense capabilities and highlights it as a critical technology area for enhance d attention and 
investment. AI, ML, and autonomy are all poise d to drive the military technologic al innovation needed 
to equi p our warfighters with AI-enabled systems to improve the speed,  quality, and accuracy of 
decisions in the field, whic h can provide the decisive advantage neede d to deter or win a fight. 
Winning the race  to maintain the U.S.’ techn ologic al competitive advantage requires deeper analysis 
of debates around the policies and authorities for these technologies. Getting the balance right will 
make or break whethe r the U.S. government (USG) ca n successfully buy and integrate  new technology 
at speed and scale fast enou gh to preserve and,  where necessary, expand the U.S.’ technological 
competitive advantage.  
1 This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or conﬁdential information. 
Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attributi on. 


NDIA offers the following  areas for consideration for the AI Action Plan:  
Promoting  Government Use of AI  
The opportunities for applying AI technologies are effectively limitless , and the government should 
prioritize making  AI technologies easier to procure and deploy across all government missions , 
including  the acquisition of commercial AI solutions using commercial purchasing authorities, terms, 
and conditions . The U.S. needs  reliable AI that provides trusted and relevant answers to mission -
specific questions. The Administration must prioritize data investments to coincide with AI tool 
procurement and deployment across government.  To help industry tailor its  recommendations for AI 
investments that will most effectively meet agency mission needs, the government  should focus on 
the following areas :  
•Defin ing AI: Artificial intelligence is a broad category that ranges from relatively
straightforward data analysis and search functions to highly complex  threat prediction
capabilities. Setting a clear, common definition for how the government views  AI as a
technology enabler will allow businesses to provide clearer guidance for AI investments. The
government  should leverage existing work at the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST) to ensure harmonization across the AI landscape.
•Utilizing existing laws:  It is essential to leverage  existing technology -neutral laws and sector-
specific regulations that already govern  AI in the context of government procurement and
cybersecurity policy. The Administration should reemphasize these  frameworks, legal
definitions, and agency authorities related to government procurement. AI is an evolving
technology, but the application of statutory definitions to new technologies has been a
constant practice. Existing legal definitions and implementing regulations  in agency -specific
legislation  continue to apply to federal government IT systems.
•Setting clear direction on which mission areas are the highest priority for leveraging AI:  Given
the broad range of AI applications, it is crucial for agencies to provide clear guidance anddemand signals on priority mission areas for AI investment. Indicating which areas are mostimportant and ready for AI implementation will allow companies to  direct their efforts towards
solving critical national challenges. Agencies should incentivize innovation with AI in existingprograms that require AI -driven processes and standards for acceptable AI system deliverables
under contracts.
•Ensuring  access to commercial cloud resources : Agencies  should seek  to leverage existing
discount programs to  ensure  low cost for  compute and inference services in future years.
Comput ing power is essential for AI. Once the DIB  and non -defense contractors  integrate AI
into their  functions and process es, they  cannot proceed without the higher  level of computing .
As airlines have done with fuel prices, the government  should consider investing upfront and
locking  in today’s price for computing. Further, the government  should assess its access to
commercial cloud computing capacity at all classification levels and ensure it has access to therequisite level of processing capacity at the unclassified, secret, and top -secret levels to handle
mission -critical training and inference workloads.


•Leverag ing commercial terms and conditions:  Accepting commercial data rights and customer -
generated IP rights are the future of faster innovation. The Administration  should encourage
widespread adoption of standard commercial terms as much as possible  and direct agencies to
leverage commercial licensing terms of service for AI  in harmonization with existing terms used
across U.S. federal public sector commercial contracting  of computer software  (See FAR
12.212.)  and standard commercial practices.
•Focus ing on buying solutions, not just AI:  The USG will not see a meaningful return on its AI
investments buying discrete AI tools. Instead, the USG should buy integrated solutions tied to
clear mission outcomes.  These solutions may include many different AI components, but none
of them will achieve mission outcomes on their own. The distinction between solutions and
tools is important . Every AI component will require significant updates to maintain its
usefulness – or need to be swapped out altogether for a different component – while the
broader solution may achieve successful mission outcomes for years. Shifting to an outcomes -
focused posture will provide three key benefits. It will: (1) simplify the USG’s requirements; (2)
increase optionality in the selection of tools and partners; and (3) reduce mission risk by
focusing on pre -integrated solutions that can be deployed quickly and securely.
•Provide  accessibility to high- quality, curated training data:  Robust, high- quality data is a
necessity for AI developers. Publicly  available training data has the potential to create issues
including IP infringement, prompt injection, or other concerns. The government should create arepository of such data and create initiatives to share such data responsibly while maintainingsecuri ty and privacy standards.
Removing Barriers to Expand the Use of AI  
Meeting the needs of our national imperatives depends  upon a diverse set of industry partners with 
access to critical technology.  The government should work with industry to identify and remediate 
roadblocks where government policies and regulations unnecessarily slow the adoption of AI. Government acquisition processes must be modernized to match the pace of technological change and enable more efficient procurement of commercial AI solutions. Areas where barriers should be removed  include the following:  
•Shorten and simplify the ATO process:  One of the largest barriers  to efficiently introducing new
AI capabilities to the USG  is the Authorization and Accreditation process to receive an Authority
to Operate (ATO). Getting a traditional  ATO can take over a year at a substantial cost,  which can
be very burdensome to small businesses  and a barrier to rapidly delivering relevant software
capabilities to agencies . Two very prominent examples are FedRAMP and IL4/5. To be clear,
these certifications are necessary and important. But they are unnecessarily long and laborious,often preventing innovative startups from adding value to the USG , if they even try. The two
principal reasons to reform these processes are: (1) they can take a year or more to complete,stifling progress and dissuading new companies from serving the U.S. Government; and (2) they
arbitrarily require an agency to sponsor a certification before the process can even begin,
despite the cost and burden borne almost exclusively by the company seeking the certification.


To address these issues, it will be necessary to deeply reevaluate the ATO process and identify 
where improvements can be made. Initially, however, NDIA propose s three  key changes: (1) all 
certifications can be initiated and undertaken by the company seeking one without agency 
sponsorship (but agencies will still be responsible for the final certification); (2) authorizing officials should be measured on how effectively  they support requirement sets and incentivized 
accordingly ; and (3) agencies should continue to push for greater utilization of reciprocity 
within the ATO process . The result of these changes will be a net increase in the critical AI 
companies that are ready and able to serve the USG  with  fast and efficient delivery of 
innovative capabilities critical to our national security.  
•Do not unne cessarily block AI applications by default:  To win the AI competition with the
People’s Republic of China, the USG  must avoid reactively banning new AI models when they
are released. This prevents the USG from doing two key things: (1) understanding , and if
necessary , defending against their true risk factors, which cannot be accomplished without
directly engaging with the models; and (2) leveraging the most advanced capabilities available
when even incremental performance gains in a frontier model can make a national securit y
mission more successful or secure. Put simply, reflexively banning AI models by default puts the
U.S. at a competitive disadvantage.
NDIA  reco mmend s a policy that emphasizes broad AI use and security. There is no doubt that
certain foreign -developed AI models present security challenges , and some may not make
sense to use in, or for, USG systems at all. But there are known – and proven – tools and
methods to manage AI security risks while still leveraging a model's capabilities. Therefore, thedefault policy of the USG , including all agencies , should be to use all available AI models to
address mission requirements, while taking prudent steps to deploy  those models securely and
protect U.S. intellectual property. To that end, the USG may consider standing up a function to
rapidly recreate open -source models with standard security controls, enabling the trusted
deployment of AI solutions across missions of national importance. This approach would befurther enhanced with the participation of select international partners.  In addition, the full
assessment of new AI models would enable the ability to recognize and develop counter -AI.
Like the Intelligence C ommunity shifted their posture from "Need to Know" to "Need to Share"
after 9/11, we recommend an analogous shift from "AI Can't Be Trusted" to "AI Must Be Used."The USG must use every AI tool at its disposal without security being an unnecessary
impediment.
•Increase access to chips and other technologies:  The ever -greater reliance on computing
power to operate complex systems depends on access to chips and other key components.Large -scale commercial entities have the resources and buying power to monopolize this
market if they choose  or if, at any point, supplies become  substantially limited. The Department
should work to ensure that these technologies remain available to the defense industrial baseto help meet mission needs as required.
•Promote open-source and AI:  NDIA members find the lack of open  models that enable free and
permissive use concerning. All current major commercial open models contain significant


license restrictions that explicitly deny the use of their models for defense applications , and 
NDIA  recommend s DoD negotiate with the model creators to remove the “defense application” 
restriction.  This is a major issue for the DIB and D oD equities.  In addition, most models 
advertised as ‘open -source’ models are merely ‘open -weight’ models (e.g., the model weights 
are available, but the data and source code used for training these models are not visible), 
which makes it more difficult to investigate the in tegrity of the models themselves. The 
government should work with model developers to provide truly open -source, secure models 
to allow for innovation and AI -enabled system development.  
• Protect the hardware supply chain:  The future of the government’s  computing supply chain is 
vulnerable due to the sheer amount of training compute  resources.  Given the private sector’s 
rapid adoption of t his technology, the government may compete for scarce  hardware resources 
in the future. To ensure the government’s  ability to deploy real- time AI capabilities, particularly 
Gen AI capabilities, we must increase investment in Gen AI computing capacity . Further, the 
government  should also increase its access to this critical hardware by leveraging commercial 
cloud capabilities at all classification levels.  Additional investments in tactical (3U, 6U , etc.) 
compute resources beyond the GPU architecture  may  also be necessary to take advantage of 
the proliferation of Gen AI solutions across the DIB  and non- defense contractors . 
Supporting Partnerships , the AI Workforce, and New Entrants  
• Leverage mentor -protégé programs:  The USG  should creat e mentor -protégé programs that 
allow existing contractors to bring expertise in meeting agency  customer expectations while 
leveraging small and innovative company capabilities. To be impactful at scale, such programs must allow mentor companies to have a number of protégés concurrently, and that number should take into consideration the size/scope of the mentor company. The current blanket 
limit of three protégés per mentor for some programs greatly reduces the potential impact of 
the program.    
• Foster partnerships:  Given the broad range of AI applications, it is crucial for agencies to 
provide clear guidance and demand signals on priority mission areas for AI investment. 
Indicating which areas are most important and ready for AI implementation will allow companies to  direct their efforts towards solving critical national challenges. Agencies should 
incentivize innovation with AI in existing programs that require AI -driven processes and 
standards for acceptable AI system deliverables under contracts.  
 
• Consider new c onsortiums:  The establishment of agency -industry consortiums will enable 
relationship development and collaboration on relevant issues. The Artificial Intelligence Safety Institute Consortium (AISIC) housed under NIST is a good example that unites AI creators and 
users, academics, government and industry researchers, and civil society organizations in 
support of the development and deployment of safe and trustworthy AI.  
 


•Increase use of SBIRs , OTAs, and BAAs for AI: The USG  should provide resources for new
entrants to understand how to work with federal agencies  and provide access to training data
for AI developers. Smaller companies, particularly small and sophisticated software companies,
may avoid partnering with the USG because of the antiquated data rights rules in the FAR and
DFARS. Such resources  should be made more flexible for the acquisition  of AI tools in order to
attract these new entrants . Additionally, contracting and agreements officers using flexible
contracting vehicles for AI should be trained in adopting commercial business practices andcontract terms to ease the barriers for all companies  seeking to offer their AI solutions to the
government.
•Ensure transparency  in contracting costs and assistance for small businesses:  Without
knowing the full costs  of contracting , it can be difficult for industry partners, especially small
businesses and nontraditionals, to make a fully informed business decision of whether toconduct business with the USG, which can become a large barrier to entry.  For example, the
existing requirement for DoD contractors to meet cybersecurity standards under NIST SP 800 -
171 a nd the coming requirement for non- defense contractors under the proposed FAR rule for
Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) impose high initial costs and annual recurring costs on
contractors. DoD contractors must expend additional funds for third- party assessment and
certification under the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification (CMMC) program. Besides
providing transparency  to new entrants of what it costs to contract with the government,
Congress and the Administration should consider providing a ssistance through the form of tax
credits and loan guarantees  to help attract small businesses with innovative solutions.
•Enabl e flexible  facility security clearance on -ramps : The USG should p rovide security
clearances for AI developers who work across multiple programs at various classification levels.As we work to stand up AI infrastructure capabilities to serve the USG in classified
environments, we are often limited in our ability to provide services in classified domains dueto limited cleared staff billets. Once the agency  tests a capability at the unclassified level,
having more cleared personnel across the DIB will enable agencies  to move the solution to a
classified fabric mission use.
•Build the AI workforce  pipeline : Establishing priority lists of AI subspecialties to share with
academia and industry would help accelerate research focus and academic development tosupport a sustainable AI knowledgeable workforce.
Expanding  Access to Innovation by Respecting Private Industry IP and Data Rights  
Developing and deploying AI -enabled defense systems often involves collaboration between multiple 
entities, including government agencies, defense contractors, new entrants, and research institutions. Determining ownership, sharing intellectual property (IP) rights, and addressing copyright, trademark, and patent issues in collaborative projects is highly complex. NDIA recommends that the government establish a collaborative process to work with industry to develop contracting mechanisms and acquisition strategies that respect and protect privately developed IP to the greatest extent possible and focus on acquiring only those technical data deliverables and license rights necessary to 


accomplish the specific definitive goals of the government at hand. Respecting the private sector’s IP 
rights and more closely aligning with commercial practices will incentivize investment and provide the government with greater access to the most advance d technological innovations.  
Utilizing AI to Improve  Acquisition and Procurement Processes  
AI, specifically Gen AI, has demonstrated its ability to accelerate productivity in nearly all industries. Acquisitions will benefit from accelerated insights, while supply chain management will benefit from integrated data insights and analytics that prov ide efficiencies.  The following are several considerations 
for utilizing AI to improve the acquisition and procurement processes:  
• AI has the potential to augment the entire acquisition cycle. AI -enabled proposal writing, cost 
estimating, schedule planning, supplier control, compliance planning, model development, and artifact generation for regulatory compliance are all areas where having agency  standards 
and/or example models in place that could be shared with the DIB could have a dramatic positive impact.  The use of AI in this process could fundamentally change acquisition products 
and evaluation activities.  User training will also be critical to ensure that AI users understand 
the capabilities and reliability of their AI tools and remain responsible for the accuracy of AI -
generated content.  
• Contractors  should be informed if AI products were used in the creation of RFP materials or if 
they will be planned for use in the evaluation.  The government should also disclose when it’s 
using AI for source selection or another way in the market research or other proposal 
process es.    
• To promote more accurate models and build new AI tools, DoD will need to improve its data infrastructure and overall data collection efforts. Insufficient data collection, labeling, and 
storage is a critical barrier to exploring how AI capabilities could p romote efficiency within the 
acquisition lifecycle. DoD must continue to encourage the electronic collection of data and 
emphasize that an agile architecture will allow it to rapidly adapt to changing requirements and user needs.  
• AI can assess and identify correlations and insights in large data sets that can support more effective decision -making, identify compliance hot spots,  and allow for a more efficient 
allocation of resources.  
• The government  should s upport innovative  advancements while leveraging  existing 
commercial technologies .  
• The government should focus on leveraging cloud -based solutions at all classification levels.  
• Streamline the FedRAMP authorization process by leveraging tools that automate evaluation 
and risk identification. For example, AI can be used in tools that enable true continuous 
monitoring, reporting, and threat mitigation , thus enhancing cybersecurity across the 
enterprise . 


Conclusion  
NDIA and its membership appreciate the government’s desire to promote a strong, dynamic, and 
robust defense  industrial base. If you have any questions related to these comments, please contact 
Michael Seeds at 
Sincerely , 
National D efense Industrial Association  


