  
1 
 BY ELECTRONIC FILING  
 
03.15.2025  
 
Faisal D’ Souza 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD)  
National Coordination Office  
National Science Foundation 2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA  22314  
Email: ostp-ai -rfi@nitrd.gov  
 
Subject:  NEMA Comments- “AI Action Plan”  
 
The National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) respectfully submits the 
following comments in response to the request for information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  (the Plan) , as directed by Executive Order 14179, 
signed January 23, 2025.   
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  
 
About NEMA 
NEMA represents over 300 electrical equipment manufacturers that make safe, reliable, 
and efficient products and systems. Together, our members contribute 1% of U.S. GDP 
and directly provide nearly 460,000 American jobs, contributing more than $250 billion  to 
the U.S. economy. Our members produce goods for the grid, industrial, built environment, and mobility sectors. The electroindustry is a key driver of infrastructure development and 
future economic growth.
1 
 
 
1 Additional information about NEMA may be found at https://www.nema.org/ . 

  
2 
 Comments  
The electroindustry has been rapidly evolving  to meet the tremendous market demand for 
electric good s and components, driven by factors such as e lectrification, digitalized 
connectivi ty throughout the grid and built environment, the rise of the data center  and 
quantum computing industries , and the  growth of domestic manufacturing. These 
conditions , combined with the rapid advancement and implementation of sensory 
technologies and chip-centric  management and operational systems, present  both 
production  opportunities and supply chain challenges for electrical manufacturers. AI is 
one of those technologies.   
 
The use of AI across the electroindustry is not novel, having been used in production 
processes in some form since the 1950s.2 As such, the industry has been at the forefront of 
developing safe and mature data processing models which have led the world in algorithmic production.  Current day market factors  are enabling the use of AI  well  beyond 
the closed environments of production floors  and laboratories to the consuming public  
through the exponential digitalization of data, the development of Internet of Things (IoT) 
networks, and the steady improvements in m achine learning (ML) and d eep learning 
algorithms  for generative purposes .  
 In the most general sense, AI  technology applications in manufacturing  introduces scale 
and efficiency and is best applied to two types of scenarios: data analysis and subsequent 
predictive recommendations and actions; and routine redundant tasks. In that context, 
NEMA ’s comments and recommendations on the Plan are provided below.  
 
AI in Manufacturing  
 Electromanufacturing  companies incorporate  connected sensors, devices and systems  
within their operational environments which generate vast amounts of machine data. AI 
algorithms are  used to derive understanding from concept machine data in aspects such 
as complexity, quality, and labeling. These ML algorithms can then improve upon the data 
 
2 National Electrical Manufacturers Association. (n.d.). AI in the Electroindustry and Medical 
Imaging Sectors. Retrieved from https://www.nema.org/docs/default- source/council-
documents -library/documents/ai- electroindustry -ebook.pdf?sfvrsn=d89e2244_0  

  
3 
 and knowledge gained  to subsequently improve operational processes , enabling 
efficiencies which boost capacity output for products needed to advance the AI revolution .    
 
Furthermore, AI can help optimize workflows, predict maintenance needs, and increase 
workplace safety.  It can also increase the reliability and resiliency of the supply chain by 
enabling manufacturers to proactively  and accurately  react to potential and identified 
disruptions and challenges. All of these are an imperative as the electroindustry leads the charge in revitalizing domestic manufacturing and production to achieve American policy 
goals.   
 
Enhanced manufacturing efficiency  provides numerous societal benefits, including 
environmental sustainability, increased product quality and safety, economic growth and job satisfaction, and improved supply chain resilience. The  Plan needs to recognize  these 
benefits as being essential to a modern economy and society; it is extremely important 
that routine and constructive  collaboration between the private and public sectors occurs 
to create a supportive ecosystem for AI adoption and use in the advanced manufacturing 
sector.   
 
AI in Energy 
 
AI in the energy  sector is twofold: it is a tool that allows for the optimalization of load 
management throughout the grid; simultaneously , AI is only enabled by a resilient  
backbone of electrical grid hardware and software components. AI plays a pivotal role in 
enabling a smart electric  grid by enhancing efficiency, reliability, and resilience. But it can 
only be made smart  (intelligent)  with the  availability and proper implementation of a 
combinatio n of new-age and legacy components and products.  
 AI provides for a whole suite of cutting-edge possibilities to enhance the grid, including but 
not limited to  real -time monitoring and automation systems (predictive maintenance, real -
time response), demand response and predictive analytics (distributive energy demand 
management; load forecasting) energy storage optimization, and cybersecurity . These 
features empower  grid owners and operators to dramatically enhance resilience and 
ensure load reliability.   
 

  
4 
 Smart grid technologies and sensors can capture information such as the amount of power 
consumed, the duration of peak use, customer location, and other use signatures which 
can determine where on the grid power is being drawn . AI can identify specific patterns of 
energy use by location, customer type, or other criteria . These determinations lead to 
generation use predictions which can be fed to power production systems,  allowing energy 
producers to balance electricity supply and demand.   
 
The Plan should recognize the importance of AI’s role of energy management through 
innovation and modernization of the electric grid.  E nacting manufacturing tax friendly 
policies can help to spur this.  
 
The ability of AI to scale and provide immense benefits are directly dependent on an 
electrical component supply chain to facilitate and consistently deliver the overwhelming power needed for the technology to function. This is especially true for data centers, which are integral to AI development. A mple and sustained investment in the data center supply 
chai n is needed to ensure that the demand for vital components, including transformers, 
switchgears, circuit breakers, panel boards, wires, substations, and other  elements , can 
be met with a consistent and predictable supply.   
Additionally, supply chain capacity investment must be complemented by sound public 
policies and reasonable regulatory processes to maintain such investment  and further 
global leadership. As mentioned above, the electroindustry  has pioneered the use of AI in 
American manufacturing and currently contributes to the United States being at the forefront  in AI d evelopment and implementation. Federal policies m ust prioritize  America ’s 
leadership in the AI space; existing policies should be modernized,  and new policies must 
bolster  and maintain this position .  
 As the supply chain is critical to both data center and AI development , NEMA strongly 
recommends that the Plan include  considerations to ensure market certainty for  
manufacturers and other supply chain entities who support and promote  industries driving 
AI innovation.   
 
 

  
5 
 Not all AI is Created Equal  
 
AI is an umbrella term covering numerous computing systems. As referenced above,  most 
AI used in the manufacturing process utilize ML models , which are  trained on large data 
sets with human input, conversations, user queries and responses. These models operate 
in controlled processing environments, where the data collected and analyzed maintains a 
high standard of integrity to ensure that statist ical outcomes are valid and supported.  
 The growing popularity of g enerative AI  uses in consumer -facing products should not be 
confused with ML or other models which are deployed in controlled and monitored 
settings. Generative AI models are trained on different sets of data to learn predictive 
patterns to produce various types of content, including text, imagery, audio, and synthetic data.   
 
Governance frameworks for AI need to consider who the end users are and the inte grity of 
data that is being analyzed when being developed . The Plan should understand the  know n 
and perceived  end -uses of the various AI models so lawmakers and regulators can create 
appropriate and specific guardrails which further innovation and American leadership 
while  avoid ing harmful or illegal outcomes .   
 
Role of AI Standards & Frameworks  
 AI standards promote the interoperability between different systems and devices to  
facilitate seamless integration of digital solutions into existing infrastructure, both within 
and throughout the manufacturing sector, as well as across economic  sectors. They are 
also critical to ensure the reliable and safe interface of connected systems.   
 
The Plan can encourage AI standards development and participation by endorsing and 
elevating existing  internationally recognized s tandards development organization  (SDO) 
initiatives intended to boost participation in standards- setting activities . This includ es 
award programs, such as those from the American National Standards Institute  and the 
Society for Standardization Professionals, that recognize individuals and organizations for 
contributions to standards development, which encourage mentorship or career 
development in standards development, and foster collaboration with small and medium 
size companies to elevate their voice, needs, and strengths in standards development.  

  
6 
  
Additionally, the electroindustry recommends that the Plan encourage the voluntary 
adoption of public, consensus-based, well -respected and -sourced governance, AI risk 
management frameworks, and other public documents including:  
• The NIST AI Risk Management Framework (RMF)
3;  
• Playbooks stemming from the RMF 4; 
• The use of advanced threat assessment models, including the MITRE Atlas5 which 
can help the industry develop and securely operate resilient and trustworthy AI -
enabled systems. 
• The Internet of Things (IoT) Advisory Board Report which includes several sections on the growing importance of AI within IoT (AIoT)
6 
 
Importantly , protecting the intellectual property (IP) and copyrights of  SDOs is paramount.  
The Plan needs to  clearly recognize appropriate and legal safeguards and guardrails for 
existing  IP accessed by A I systems.   
 
AI Governance Aspects  
 AI is a tool to amplify human capabilities, particularly the processing of information to 
make decisions. In the end, a human ultimately is the recipient of an AI recommendation, and it is a human that is responsible for the outcome of any decision made fr om that 
recommendation. In proper governance of AI, to enhance trust and accountability and effectively manage risk, a human in-loop is fundamental.  
 
Additionally, electromanufacturers rely on the integrity of data inputs to  trust the 
recommendations and actions AI systems produce; where data originates from and is sourced matters.  In general applications, ML in manufacturing is used in unadulterated 
 
3 https://www.nist.gov/itl/ai-risk -management -framework  
4 https://airc.nist.gov/airmf -resources/playbook/ 
5 https://atlas.mitre.org/ 
6 https://www.nist.gov/system/files/documents/2024/10/21/IoT Advisory Board Report  
 

7 and non-public environments , where data inputs and outputs are controlled for system 
integrity. However, as the use of data sets by AI evolves to address new and unforeseen 
opportunities and challenges in manufacturing, regulatory and legal rules around the 
collection, handling, and utilization of data need to be clearly defined. The Plan needs to 
consider these aspects when considering appropriate AI governance models.  
Conclusion  
NEMA respectfully requests consideration of our comments, and we look forward to working with the NITRD NCO CEC in the development and implementation of the “AI 
Action Plan .”  Should you have any questions or need additional information, please do not 
hesitate to contact  me.  
Sincerely,  
Spencer Pederson  
Senior  Vice President, Public Affairs  

