Patrick Hedger 
Director of Policy 
NetChoice 
Protecting Free Speech and Free Enterprise Online
Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) 
Request for Information on an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
90 Fed. Reg. 9088 (Feb. 6, 2025) 
Docket No. NSF_FRDOC_0001 COMMENT FOR THE RECORD  
March 14, 2025 
NetChoice is a trade association of leading internet businesses that promotes the value, 
convenience, and choice that internet business models provide American consumers. Our 
mission is to make the internet safe for free enterprise and for free expression. We also work to 
promote the integrity and availability of the internet on a global stage, and are engaged on issues 
in the states, in Washington, DC, and in international internet governance organizations. 
NetChoice appreciates the opportunity to submit comments to the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy (OSTP) regarding this Request for Information on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan.  
NetChoice is delighted that President Trump and his administration have demonstrated such a 
strong interest from the outset in “sustaining and enhancing America's AI dominance in order to 
promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security.”1  
NetChoice shares President Trump’s view that the United States faces “an emergency” related to 
AI, prompted by competition from China.2 While America has historically led the world in 
technology development–particulary of and for the Internet–our present position as the leader in 
AI is tenuous. President Trump’s assessment of the release of DeepSeek, a Chinese AI model, as 
a “wakeup call” is entirely correct.3 Regardless of how Chinese interests behind DeepSeek 
3 “Trump: DeepSeek's AI should be a 'wakeup call' to US industry,” Reuters, January 28, 2025. 
https://www.reuters.com/world/us/trump-deepseeks-ai-should-be-wakeup-call-us-industry-2025-01-27/  2 “Announcing the Stargate Project,” OpenAI, January 21, 2025. 
https://openai.com/index/announcing-the-stargate-project/  1 90 FR 9088; 2025-02305 
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/02/06/2025-02305/request-for-information-on-the-development-of-
an-artificial-intelligence-ai-action-plan  
1 


produced their model, it demonstrates that China has rapidly closed the gap with the United 
States on AI. 
The United States must rise to this challenge. Internet pioneer and venture capitalist Marc 
Andreessen’s assessment of the criticality of AI is spot-on:  
“Artificial intelligence is the most consequential innovation we have seen in a 
generation, with the transformative power to address society’s most complex 
problems and create a whole new economy—much like what we saw with the 
advent of the printing press, electricity, and the internet.”4 
Despite the novelty of AI and the historic inflection point it presents, America does not need a 
radical new approach to ensure global leadership in all things AI. The blueprint for success is 
evident in our history and our national DNA, as demonstrated by America’s current economic 
dominance, and the global internet built and shaped by Americans, such as Google, Amazon, 
Meta, and X.  Global rivals lack our powerful legacy of tech innovation.  
Some policy changes at the margins will help, on which these comments will elaborate. 
However, the overarching theme for policymakers addressing AI should reinforce what works 
about the historical American approach to technology and innovation: permissionless 
innovation and regulatory humility , as explained next. 
Permissionless innovation means, “Experimentation with new technologies and business 
models should generally be permitted by default . Unless a compelling case can be made that a 
new invention will bring serious harm to society, innovation should be allowed to continue 
unabated, and problems, if they develop at all, can be addressed later.”5  
Regulatory humility means regulators should avoid trying to predict the future or address the 
myriad ways a technology can be misused, only to stifle beneficial development and deployment 
of a technology. If problems develop then regulation should be targeted, incremental, and 
sectoral. For example, it is highly unlikely that the automobile industry as we know it today 
would exist in a world where all of the regulations that apply to automobiles today were applied 
to the Ford Model T.  
An additional aspect of regulatory humility is regulatory stability and certainty. Rapid changes 
and other instability in underlying policy, including general policy areas such as tax and energy, 
undermine the risk-taking necessary for investment and innovation.  5 Adam Thierer and Michael Wilt, “Permissionless Innovation: A 10-Point Checklist for Public Policymakers,” The 
Mercatus Center, March 31, 2016. 
https://www.mercatus.org/research/policy-briefs/permissionless-innovation-10-point-checklist-public-policymakers  4 Marc Andreessen, X Post, November 1, 2024, 2:13 pm. 
https://x.com/pmarca/status/1852413608850010332?lang=en  
2 


In line with the above shared vision and principles, NetChoice offers the following 
recommendations on AI, starting with what the Trump administration can do immediately 
followed by what the administration should work with Congress to see through. 
Immediate Actions: 
1.Rescind and Replace Biden’s Executive Order 14141
2.Settle Biden’s Antitrust Cases Against American AI Innovators
3.Roll Back Biden’s Hart-Scott-Rodino (HSR) restrictions on M&A
Support: 
1.Support a National Data Privacy and Security Law
2.Support Reinstatement of Full Expensing of Capital Investment and R&D
3.Embrace and Enforce Existing Law
By no means is the above a comprehensive list. Several of NetChoice’s members will have 
submitted comments to this docket as well. We encourage the Trump administration to consider 
and incorporate their suggestions into the AI action plan as well. 
Rescind and Replace Biden Executive Order 14141 
In the waning days of Biden’s term, his administration rushed through Executive Order (EO) 
14141, Advancing United States Leadership in Artificial Intelligence Infrastructure. On the 
surface, this EO strikes many of the right rhetorical notes on policy, promising expedited 
permitting and the opening up of federal lands for the development of data centers and related 
energy infrastructure. Unfortunately, the Biden administration attached a litany of progressive 
policy strings to the EO that not only will not advance AI investment and infrastructure 
development, but actively hamper it.  While the purported goal of EO 14141 is to facilitate the rapid development and deployment of 
AI infrastructure, its “benefits” rest far too much on unrelated policy objectives. These include 
favors to unions through requirements to pay prevailing wage, “clean energy” mandates for data 
centers on federal lands, climate resiliency studies and environmental reporting requirements, 
and chip procurement quotas that domestic suppliers are unlikely to be able to meet in the near 
term. This is the kind of red tape that plagued other Biden administration infrastructure 
programs, such as the Broadband Equity Access and Deployment (BEAD) Program6 and the 
6 James Earwin, “Why BEAD is Failing,” The Journal of the James Madison Institute, Fall 2024. 
https://jamesmadison.org/wp-content/uploads/2024_Fall_Journal_23-v01.pdf  
3 


National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Program,7 resulting in paltry outcomes despite 
allocating tens of billions of taxpayer dollars. 
The Trump administration should rescind and replace EO 14141 to provide flexibility for data 
center and energy infrastructure development on federal lands – without imposing peripheral 
policy requirements.  
Settle Biden’s Antitrust Cases Against Major AI Investors and Innovators 
AI is a general purpose technology that will be developed and deployed by firms of all shapes 
and sizes. Like many technologies in their infancy, AI is resource-intensive, and early 
innovations have drawn heavily on the capital, data, and knowledge only the major technology 
companies can provide. Apple, Google, Meta, Amazon, and Microsoft have all developed and 
deployed AI services, invested in AI startups, and built data centers to fuel these AI systems. 
What these companies also have in common is that they are all either in active litigation or under 
investigation by European and American antitrust regulators. These cases and investigations are enormous restraints on the ability of these firms to keep 
America on top of the AI race. Aside from the significant diversion of executive attention and 
company resources, the ultimate inhibiting factor is the uncertainty of being in the crosshairs of 
antitrust restrictions. This is particularly true given the Biden administration’s radical, expansive 
approach to antitrust, which has shaped all of the current cases and investigations.  
Our tech leaders need look no further than the Biden Department of Justice’s (DOJ) proposed 
remedies in United States v. Google to understand the existential risks to their AI portfolios 
posed by current cases and investigations. Per the Biden DOJ’s filing, Google should be 
prevented “from owning or acquiring any investment or interest in any search or search text ad 
rival, search distributor, or rival query-based AI product or ads technology.”8 This would require 
Google to pull funding from Anthropic, a highly-successful AI firm in which Google has 
invested $3 billion, including a $1 billion investment two days after President Trump’s 
inauguration.9  Thankfully, the Trump administration DOJ revised the proposed remedies and removed this 
excessive and extraneous remedy request. However, even DOJ’s revised remedies would still 
prevent Google from tightly integrating its AI technology into its other products, via expansive 
9 Hayden Field, “Google agrees to new $1 billion investment in Anthropic,” CNBC, January 22, 2025. 
https://www.cnbc.com/2025/01/22/google-agrees-to-new-1-billion-investment-in-anthropic.html  8 "Executive Summary of Plaintiffs' Proposed Final Judgment." Case 1:20-cv-03010-APM, Document 1062. United 
States District Court for the District of Columbia, Filed November 20, 2024. 
https://www.justice.gov/atr/media/1378046/ 7 James Bikales, Trump administration moves to suspend national EV charger rollout,” Politico, February 6, 2025. 
https://www.politico.com/news/2025/02/06/trump-administration-ev-charger-program-00203011  
4 


restrictions on “self-preferencing.” While the remedies would not explicitly prevent Google from 
making AI investments, they would deny Google and its customers much of the benefits of AI 
integration. The impact on AI investment and innovation of the revised remedies therefore 
retains some of the restrictions in Biden's proposed remedies. The Trump administration should 
seek a settlement with Google, and should reexamine other Biden cases and investigations of the 
American firms pulling the most weight in the global AI race. 
Roll Back Biden’s Hart-Scott-Rodino (HSR) Changes 
Active cases and investigations are not the only antitrust measures keeping untold billions of 
dollars worth of AI investment on the sidelines.  
Regulatory changes on proposed mergers and acquisitions (M&A) promulgated by the Biden 
administration have introduced enormous uncertainty. The Biden administration fundamentally 
reshaped Hart-Scott-Rodino (HSR) Act antitrust enforcement through a series of policy changes 
beginning in 2021. Under the leadership of then-FTC Chair Lina Khan and DOJ Antitrust Chief 
Jonathan Kanter, the agencies suspended early termination for straightforward mergers, issued 
warning letters about potential post-waiting period challenges, and significantly expanded 
information requests during merger reviews. These procedural changes make merger clearance 
more difficult, time-consuming, and uncertain for businesses. 
Substantively, the administration implemented new HSR reporting requirements covering labor 
market impacts, foreign subsidies, and previously unreported acquisitions. The FTC withdrew 
the 2020 Vertical Merger Guidelines, signaling skepticism toward vertical integration arguments, 
and in December 2023 the agencies issued updated merger guidelines that lowered market 
concentration thresholds and expanded the theories of competitive harm considered. These 
changes collectively created a more stringent merger review environment that reflected the Biden 
administration's broader commitment to aggressive antitrust enforcement. 
NetChoice strongly opposed these HSR changes10 due to the threat posed to America's tech 
innovation ecosystem—the most dynamic in the world. By more than quadrupling paperwork 
requirements and adding an estimated $350 million in filing costs, these changes create 
unnecessary burdens that discourage investments and delay capital flows. The success stories of 
acquisitions like Android, YouTube, and Instagram demonstrate how M&A fuels innovation that 
benefits consumers through improved products and services, often offered for free as many AI 
services are now. 10 Federal Trade Commission. Proposed Changes to HSR Premerger Notification Form: Comments of NetChoice. 
September 27, 2023. 
https://netchoice.org/netchoice-files-hsr-comments-to-ftc-rejecting-europeanization-of-american-antitrust/  
5 


The new HSR framework also improperly politicizes merger reviews by importing 
European-style informational requirements that give agencies excessive discretion to block 
mergers through endless delays. Unlike the streamlined US process that has fostered innovation 
for decades, these changes would push us toward the European model, where agencies conduct 
months-long reviews based on factors unrelated to competition. The empirical evidence is 
clear—such regulatory approaches lead to economic stagnation, not growth. 
These changes particularly harm pro-competitive vertical mergers by requiring extensive 
information about supply chains, despite overwhelming evidence that vertical integration 
benefits consumers. Courts have consistently recognized these benefits, as seen in recent 
acquisition cases involving Meta-Within and Microsoft-Activision. The economic literature 
strongly supports this view, with multiple studies showing vertical mergers improve efficiency, 
innovation, and consumer welfare. 
Ensuring a healthy level of M&A activity is critical for AI advancement because of the signal it 
sends to start-up investors and venture capitalists. Investors are unlikely to enter if they do not 
see a realistic path to exit with a profit. Initial public offerings (IPOs) are happening at later and 
larger points for independent firms, indicating a narrowing path for investor exit via IPO.11 The 
prospect of a potential acquisition is therefore crucial for luring investment into AI startups. The 
Biden administration’s HSR changes threaten this dynamic. Support a National Data Privacy and Security Law 
Besides electrical power, what fuels AI is data. The strength of an AI model is directly correlated 
with the amount of data on which it is trained, and the additional data retrieved to generate 
responses.12 Yet, what companies can and cannot do with the data they collect is a series of open 
questions, which for now begins with, “Where are you located?” 
The US approach to data privacy regulation has evolved as a fragmented patchwork of state laws 
rather than a unified federal framework. This state-by-state approach creates significant 
challenges for businesses, which must navigate multiple, sometimes contradictory compliance 
requirements across different jurisdictions. Companies have to shoulder substantial regulatory 
costs as they track multiple standards, often requiring specialized legal teams.  These burdens 
and costs are significant for large firms, but they are particularly difficult on startups and small 
firms.  
12 Tal Roded and Peter Slattery, “ What drives progress in AI? Trends in Data,” FutureTech, March 19, 2024. 
https://futuretech.mit.edu/news/what-drives-progress-in-ai-trends-in-data  11 John Berlau and Josh Rutzick, “The 20-Year Experiment Holding America Back,” The Wall Street Journal, 
July 28, 2022. 
https://www.wsj.com/articles/the-20-year-experiment-holding-the-u-s-back-sarbanes-oxley-corporate-reform-bush-e
ntrepreneurs-investors-fraud-business-11659044813  
6 


Regulatory fragmentation also results in inconsistent protection for consumers, who receive 
different privacy protections depending on where they live. Definitions of personal data, consent 
requirements, and enforcement mechanisms vary widely between states like California, Virginia, 
and Colorado. This creates confusion for individuals about their rights, especially when data 
crosses state lines, and undermines the effectiveness of privacy protection as a whole. 
The state patchwork further complicates international business operations and data transfers. 
Foreign companies must contend with multiple regulatory environments when operating in the 
US, creating potential conflicts with more comprehensive frameworks like Europe's GDPR. 
Many privacy advocates and business leaders alike argue that a single, comprehensive federal 
privacy law would address these issues by creating regulatory certainty, ensuring equal 
protection for all Americans, and simplifying compliance for businesses of all sizes. 
NetChoice has drafted model legislation for a pro-innovation, national data privacy law to 
address the above issues.13 The proposal creates several key consumer protections, including 
mandatory breach notifications when sensitive personal information is compromised, rights for 
consumers to access and request deletion of their personal information, and the ability to opt out 
of third-party data sales. The legislation defines various categories of protected information and 
establishes clear requirements for covered entities—businesses handling data on more than 
10,000 individuals. Enforcement authority is divided between the FTC (for commercial entities) 
and DOJ (for non-commercial entities), with state attorneys general also empowered to bring 
actions on behalf of their residents. Most importantly, the proposal includes a preemption clause 
that would supersede state privacy laws, creating a single national standard, while establishing a 
"safe harbor" provision allowing covered entities to demonstrate compliance through approved 
self-regulatory guidelines. 
Support Reinstatement of Full Expensing of Capital Investments and R&D The Tax Cuts and Job Act (TCJA) generally allowed 100 percent expensing for business 
property acquired and placed in service after Sept. 27, 2017 and before Jan. 1, 2023. That 
provision has now expired. 
Full expensing encourages investment, most particularly capital investment, such as in a factory 
or machinery, instead of expensing a portion of that expense every year over decades. Under full 
expensing, the cost is recognized in the year of the expenditure. The value of taking that expense 
immediately is higher than amortizing over decades. The lack of ability to expense capital 
investments in the U.S. is believed to be a barrier to business investment14.  
14 Stephen J. Entin, “The Tax Treatment of Capital Assets and Its Effect on Growth,” Tax Foundation, April 2013. 
https://files.taxfoundation.org/legacy/docs/bp67.pdf  13 Available at: https://netchoice.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/Federal-Privacy-Law.pdf  
7 


It is an important step to remove bias against investment from the tax code. Further, restoring the 
research and development (R&D) tax credit also encourages investment. 
The R&D tax credit is a federal tax policy that provides a dollar-for-dollar tax credit to 
companies for qualified research and development costs incurred domestically. R&D spending 
possesses some of the same characteristics as does a public good, such as positive externalities 
accruing to the benefit of other firms, but also is challenged by investment uncertainty, meaning 
that companies are not always consistent about investing in research and experimentation. The 
R&D tax credit is intended to correct for the potential under-investment. Overall, the economy 
gains from the increase of knowledge, increased productivity across industry, new products, and 
reduced consumer prices. AI requires immense investments in physical infrastructure, such as servers and facilities to 
house them, as well as ongoing, critical R&D. AI is a rapidly growing and evolving technology 
necessitating an endless cycle of capital acquisition and improvement as well as continuous 
research and experimentation to keep America at the cutting edge. The tax code should reflect 
these priorities. 
Embrace and Enforce Existing Law
Finally, a key component of developing any regulatory plan is understanding what consumer 
protection powers are already at the disposal of federal, state, and functional regulators. The 
perception of AI as an unregulated "wild west" is a fictional framework designed to justify 
greater government control over technology.  
AI systems must comply with industry-specific functional regulations: healthcare AI follows 
HIPAA and FDA guidelines, financial AI adheres to FCRA and ECOA, and educational AI must 
follow FERPA requirements. Federal law already prohibits election misinformation that prevents 
qualified voters from voting, enabling prosecution of election-related deepfakes. The FTC Act's 
prohibition on unfair and deceptive practices offers strong consumer protections against 
misleading AI systems, and the FTC has demonstrated its commitment to enforcement through 
actions against companies making false claims about AI products or mishandling sensitive data. 
Anti-discrimination laws including the Civil Rights Act, Fair Housing Act, and Americans with 
Disabilities Act prevents the use of any technology – including AI—for decisions about 
employment, lending, and housing that are biased or discriminatory. State-level consumer 
protection and civil rights laws also already apply to conduct that uses any technology, including 
AI. Additionally, existing defamation and false light torts protect individuals from reputational 
damage caused by deepfakes.  
8 


It bears mention that in seeking to combat the potential misuses of AI, governments should 
embrace protective AI systems and encourage consumers to leverage them as well. For example, 
current AI systems can detect deepfake audio in both audio and visual files at a 99 percent 
success rate.15 These tools are vital to mitigate AI abuse, but developers are generally susceptible 
to the same regulatory costs and constraints as any other. 
Taken together, the current laws that apply to AI represent a sectoral approach, which is an 
important principle for technological development. Congress’s House Bipartisan Task Force on 
AI released a report in December 2024 emphasizing the benefits of a sectoral approach to AI: 
“For an agile and focused approach to AI policy, sector-specific regulators within 
federal agencies and other parts of government should use their existing authority 
to respond to AI use within their individual domains of expertise and the context 
of the AI's use. This would enable more informed and efficient engagement 
between federal agencies and entities utilizing AI. Agency expertise should 
remain focused on where it can be most effective.”16 
The Task Force went on to note that it is easier to provide existing agencies like the FDA or 
NIST with the resources and knowledge to narrowly address where AI impacts their sectors, 
versus building a new agency with expertise on AI and the myriad of sectors where such tools 
will be utilized.17 
While certain AI applications may require targeted regulatory updates, the fundamental 
framework for responsible AI governance exists today. Our current legal structures can 
effectively address high-risk AI failures. Rather than implementing broad new AI-specific 
regulations, policymakers should carefully consider how new rules would interact with existing 
frameworks, focusing on addressing specific gaps without creating redundant regulations that 
could hinder innovation without improving public protection. Thank you again for the opportunity to share our perspective on this critical issue. NetChoice 
respectfully asks the Office of Science and Technology Policy to consider this information, as 
well as that offered by our members, as any process moves forward as each of the issues raised 
here are part of construction or maintenance of an innovation ecosystem that will support the 
development of AI.  
17 Patrick Hedger, “The 119th Congress Should Listen to the 118th on AI,” NetChoice, January 6, 2025. 
https://netchoice.org/the-119th-congress-should-listen-to-the-118th-on-ai/  16 Bipartisan House Task Force Report on Artificial Intelligence, 118th Congress, December 2024. 
https://republicans-science.house.gov/_cache/files/a/a/aa2ee12f-8f0c-46a3-8ff8-8e4215d6a72b/A163BDBF496ADA
741F831E5BEBBCA06699B6AFF8CC34F4FDC4065BDA298295DF.ai-task-force-report-final.pdf  15 Shubham Sharma, "Pindrop claims to detect AI audio deepfakes with 99% accuracy,” VentureBeat, August 15, 
2024. https://venturebeat.com/ai/pindrop-claims-to-detect-ai-audio-deepfakes-with-99-accuracy/  
9 


We look forward to continuing this important dialogue. As always we offer ourselves as a 
resource to discuss any of these issues with you in further detail, and appreciate the opportunity 
to provide our thoughts on this important matter. 
Sincerely,  
Patrick Hedger 
Director of Policy 
NetChoice18 
NetChoice is a trade association that works to protect free expression and promote free enterprise online. 
18 The views of NetChoice expressed here do not necessarily represent the views of NetChoice members. 
*This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan
and associated documents without attribution.*
10 


