KATHY HOCHUL 
Governor, New York State 
KATHRYN GARCIA 
Director of State Operations and Infrastructure 
March 14, 2025  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan 
and associated documents without attribution. 
New York State Comments in Response to the Request for Information on the Development of 
an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan  
Faisal D'Souza 
Technical Coordinator 
National Coordination Office, Networking and Information Technology Research and Development 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue Alexandria, VA 22314, USA  
Mr. D’Souza,  
I am pleased to submit comments in response to the Request for Information on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (Docket No. 2025-02305). As a global leader in AI and related 
technologies, New York has driven advancements that have furthered America’s national and economic 
security, expanded the safe deployment and use of AI, created high-quality jobs, and expanded access 
to high performance computing systems. New York is home to world-renowned research institutions, 
pioneering AI companies, and a thriving innovation ecosystem that has led to increased economic 
productivity thanks to transformative breakthroughs in AI, semiconductors, quantum networking and 
computing. New York is also home to world leading defense industrial base companies, national 
laboratories, and critical military installations, and we share the goal of ensuring America’s leadership in 
AI continues to grow.  New York is currently leveraging over $400 million in public and private commitments to lead the way in 
AI research and innovation for the public good through the first-in-the-nation Empire AI Consortium. 
Empire AI unites 7 private and public research institutions building a high performance computing 
facility for research into AI to solve societal challenges, and is poised to expand. Our leadership is also 
reinforced by our actions to promote AI that drives innovation, increases operational efficiencies, and 
better serves New Yorkers, while protecting privacy, managing risk, and promoting accountability and 
safety. New York’s Emerging Technology Advisory Board, an independent group of industry and 
nonprofit leaders, is helping further our commitment to making New York the capital of responsible 
development and use of AI and emerging technologies. Governor Hochul is ensuring people from all 
communities are included in the AI revolution, and this year will launch programs to train and place 
students into AI jobs, and fund AI startup founders. We are firmly committed to ensuring that AI 
technologies can be used safely, especially by children who may be more easily exploited. We are committed to furthering innovation and efficiency in government. This year, we are establishing 
a dedicated office to support agencies by providing internal consulting, centralized project support, and 
New York State Executive Chamber | Albany, NY | governor.ny.gov 
1 


New York State Comments in Response to the Request for Information 
on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan 
performance tracking, especially where AI can increase the speed and effectiveness of government 
services. We are deploying AI training to the state workforce, including on how AI tools can be used to 
improve productivity and drive efficiency. New York’s innovation agenda has catalyzed major public and 
private investments, transforming New York’s economy and creating good-paying jobs. 
GlobalFoundries recently announced an $11.6 billion investment to expand its chip manufacturing 
campus in New York’s Capital Region, creating 1,500 direct jobs and thousands of indirect jobs. In 
2022, Micron announced a 20-year, $100 billion investment to create a semiconductor fabrication 
campus in Central New York, creating 50,000 new direct and indirect jobs and unlocking hundreds of 
millions of dollars in community benefits. In 2024, IBM unveiled the world's first-ever IBM quantum 
computer on a university campus at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, complementing a world-leading 
research facility and accelerating quantum computing research, workforce development, and education. As the federal government develops an AI Action Plan, we urge the Administration to prioritize the 
following three areas: Global Competitiveness and Commercialization, Intellectual Property and 
Research Security, and Energy Innovation and Sufficiency. 
Global Competitiveness and Commercialization 
The U.S. must lead in AI development and commercialization to maintain economic, technological and 
security advantages. Global competition, particularly from China, necessitates unified, whole of 
government support and coordination. Efforts are underway to strengthen the position of the U.S. as a 
global leader in AI, with various initiatives aiming to drive AI adoption across industries, cultivate a 
strong startup ecosystem, and attract investment into AI-driven enterprises. Action on applied AI is 
particularly imperative, with AI applied to industry verticals and AI hubs clustered by application area 
having greater ability to generate commercialization, industry adoption, and further American leadership 
globally. Recognizing the need for AI research and infrastructure, federal and state level initiatives have 
sought to establish advanced AI computing centers and research consortia.  
In order to accelerate the translation of AI research into real-world applications, federally backed 
research partnerships between leading public and private universities, national laboratories, and 
private-sector leaders must be established and strengthened. Federal grant programs and tax 
incentives should be expanded to encourage AI researchers and startups to collaborate with industry 
partners. AI startups should be supported through applied AI incubators and accelerators connected to 
industry verticals–such as AI Accelerator for Healthcare or AI Incubator for Finance–offering targeted 
funding, mentorship, and regulatory guidance to fast-track AI entrepreneurship. The development of an 
AI innovation hub that connects government agencies, research institutions, and private-sector partners 
would further establish a cohesive and collaborative AI ecosystem while fostering open communication.  
Intellectual Property and Research Security 
U.S. AI research and intellectual property (IP) are prime targets for nation state and corporate 
espionage. The U.S. must set new and better national standards in IP protection by continuously 
strengthening its legal frameworks and contract protections, including by enhancing the protections 
around the creation and use of digital replicas of an individual's voice or likeness, like New York did this 
year. Foreign adversaries and competitors are accelerating efforts to acquire U.S. breakthroughs. 
Protecting AI innovation is critical for protecting technological leadership, economic security, and 
national security. Higher education institutions play a critical role in transforming cutting-edge research 
New York State Executive Chamber | Albany, NY | governor.ny.gov 
2 


New York State Comments in Response to the Request for Information 
on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan 
into marketable innovations. As AI development accelerates worldwide, global competition for 
AI-related patents is intensifying. With China currently leading in international patent filings, the U.S. 
should bolster innovation, attract top-tier AI research, and deter unauthorized use by reinforcing 
American and international patent ecosystems.  
The federal government should expand funding and resources for university Technology Transfer 
Offices (TTOs) across research institutions, national laboratories, and universities. Strengthening TTO 
capabilities will provide AI inventors and researchers with clearer pathways to secure and 
commercialize their innovations, reducing the risk of premature IP leakage to foreign competitors. The 
U.S. must implement comprehensive risk awareness training and secure collaboration protocols to 
minimize unauthorized access to sensitive AI innovations.  
The federal government should take the lead in modernizing IP laws to address AI-generated content, 
ownership rights, licensing models, and enforcement mechanisms. This includes expanding 
interagency cooperation between the Department of Justice, Department of Homeland Security, 
Department of Commerce, Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, Department of the Treasury, 
Department of Defense, and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, who all play critical roles 
in combating AI-related IP theft and economic espionage.  
Energy Innovation and Sufficiency 
AI's energy demands are significant and meeting them is vital for America’s future. We must have the 
energy technology innovation we need to enable American leadership in AI. Many leading technology 
companies increasingly recognize the need for reliable, secure, low-carbon energy sources to meet 
increased data center energy demands. This will likely require significant base load power generation. 
Nations across the world are adopting initiatives to develop energy infrastructure to meet energy needs 
throughout the lifecycle of AI and other emerging technologies. Nuclear power should continue to be 
considered a viable, long-term solution to support not only AI but also future energy demand of 
quantum computing, semiconductors, and other industries and manufacturing. New York is leading a 
multi-state consortium to drive nuclear energy deployment and is beginning a process to create a 
Master Plan for Responsible Advanced Nuclear Development in New York. These and other states’ 
efforts to evaluate advanced nuclear technologies reflect a growing commitment to energy resilience, a 
reduced environmental footprint, and the sustainable growth of AI-driven economies.  In order to better compete, the U.S. should establish a comprehensive national strategy to ensure AI's 
growing energy demands align with energy innovation and security goals. Efforts should be planned 
and aligned with the deployment of new, clean base load facilities with growing electricity demand 
across the country. A national strategy should also ensure the development of durable supply chains 
that drive down deployment costs for future innovative energy projects. Federal agencies, in 
partnerships with national laboratories, private-sector leaders, and research institutions, should 
expedite the development and deployment of small modular reactors (SMRs) and next-generation 
nuclear technologies. To drive AI-energy efficiency advancements, the U.S. should establish a federal 
AI-Energy Innovation Fund, providing grants, tax incentives, and research and development 
partnerships for companies developing AI-driven energy solutions.  
The federal government should also co-locate AI data centers with clean, base load power sources by 
incentivizing the development of AI-energy innovation zones, in a similar model to the United Kingdom’s 
New York State Executive Chamber | Albany, NY | governor.ny.gov 
3 


New York State Comments in Response to the Request for Information 
on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan 
AI growth zones. Critically, this co-location and industry buy-in can reduce grid investment costs that 
would otherwise be needed and prevent costs from being borne by other residential or commercial 
ratepayers. Private-sector investment in AI-driven energy solutions should serve as the forefront for 
cost reductions in other critical sectors, ensuring that the same advances in energy infrastructure that 
power AI can also make electricity more affordable for manufacturing, housing, and other cost-sensitive 
industries.  
As AI's electricity demands surge, the U.S. should prioritize cost-effective grid investments, including 
new transmission, AI-powered energy load balancing, and predictive analytics to improve efficiency and 
prevent grid overload. A federal AI-Energy Council should be created to guide responsible AI energy 
expansion, ensuring that AI's rapid growth aligns with national energy security.  
Conclusion 
New York stands ready to continue collaborating with the federal government to ensure AI remains a 
force for good, driving economic prosperity and strengthening America’s position as the global leader in 
AI and broader emerging technologies. However, we caution against policies that undermine the 
foundation of American innovation. Cuts to federal funding for scientific research and universities 
threaten the talent pipeline that fuels AI advancements. Efforts to roll back or undermine the CHIPS Act 
would directly harm the nation’s ability to secure a resilient semiconductor supply chain, a critical 
component of AI development.  
New York is focused on stepping forward. Researchers are already leveraging the Empire AI 
Consortium to conduct groundbreaking research which will make life better for everyday New Yorkers 
and further America’s lead in AI. Governor Hochul’s historic Green CHIPS legislation is an example of 
how state governments can leverage federal partnerships to grow and expand next generation 
research, development and manufacturing. As a direct result of working collaboratively, New York 
State’s drive to be the home of semiconductors has led to a $10 billion partnership to bring 
next-generation chips research to NY CREATES’ Albany NanoTech Complex. 
The United States has a unique opportunity to continue to lead the world in AI, but this requires 
sustained investment, strategic policymaking, and close coordination between federal, state, research 
institutions, and private-sector partners. New York looks forward to continuing to work to build an AI 
future that is globally competitive and welcomes collaboration with the Trump Administration to advance 
those goals.  
Sincerely, 
Kathryn Garcia 
Director of State Operations and Infrastructure  
New York State 
New York State Executive Chamber | Albany, NY | governor.ny.gov 
4 


