Dear members of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy,  
We are responding to the Request for Information regarding recommendations and input for the 
Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan, as outlined and directed by the January 23, 
2025, Presidential Executive Order.  
It is our desire that the final action plan accomplish one overarching goal: To harness the tremendous 
benefits of AI for both the public and private sectors while mitigating potential harms.  
We come to you as both elected officials in our respective cities/states as well as co -chairs of the 
NewDEAL Forum AI Task Force.  
The NewDEAL Forum is a nonpartisan 501(c)3 organization which identifies and elevates innovative, 
future -oriented state and local policies that can improve the lives of all Americans. By facilitating the 
identification and spread of policy ideas, the NewDE AL Forum seeks to foster economic growth, reduce 
barriers to opportunity, and promote good government in communities, cities, and states throughout the 
country.  
The AI Task Force launched in the summer of 2024, and has since brought together state and local elected 
officials along with experts from non -profits and the private sector to explore AI's potential to make 
government work better. The group’s efforts unde rscore the significant role and opportunities for state 
and local governments when it comes to advancing the potential of AI while mitigating potential harms.  
In 2024, the Task Force released a report containing recommendations on Election Security ( Artificial 
Intelligence and Elections: Initial Steps To Protect Democracy ).  
While the Task Force is largely focused on state and local initiatives related to AI, we recognize the need 
for the federal government to provide overarching guidance on this emerging technology. We believe that 
federal agencies can and should set the exam ple of AI innovation, showing how the technology can make 
government more efficient.  
We are encouraged by efforts that are already underway. For example, Arati Prabhakar, former Director 
of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, spoke in December about how the Social 
Security Administration is using AI to speed up the app lication process. In addition, the Department of 
Veterans Affairs is using AI to help collate and digest feedback from veterans around the country. We 
hope the current administration builds on these efforts.  
The recommendations in this letter are drawn from the experiences of state and local elected officials 
across the nation, as well as our conversations with private sector and non -profit experts in the field. It is 


2 our sincere hope that this administration provides a policy framework that both helps secure a brighter 
future for American families while also providing appropriate guardrails to protect these same families 
from potential harm, all while allowing AI techn ology to flourish.  
Our recommendations are organized into three areas of focus: Making Government More Efficient; 
Election Security; and Regulation.  
Innovation and Making Government More Efficient:  Federal agencies must set the example of 
responsible AI integration. As noted above, federal agencies like the Social Security Administration and 
Department of Veterans Affairs are already using AI to increase efficiency. Federal agencies should 
continue to innovate with AI with particular emphasis on data security and privacy.  
●Focus on data privacy and security.  The federal government should set the gold standard when
it comes to data privacy and security. The potential of AI to create efficiencies and enable
technological breakthroughs is tremendous, but guardrails are critical to protecting the privacy of
indiv iduals. For example, integrating AI technology into health care fields could prove beneficial,
but personally identifiable information (PII) and health care information about individuals must
be protected. OSTP must ensur e that any federal agency using AI has clear, consistent, and strong
protections for data privacy, including but not limited to preventing sensitive, HIPAA (Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act) protected information from being disclosed .
●Promote Collaboration and Information Sharing:  OSTP should collect and disseminate best
practices not only for other federal agencies, but also for state and local governments, industry
stakeholders, and civil society organizations. The federal government should make a dedicated,
concerted effort to w ork with state and local governments specifically to foster a shared
understanding of AI challenges and opportunities when it comes to government efficiency. In
addition, the federal government should learn fro m states and localities who are implementing AI
effectively. Specifically, OSTP should take a leading role in convening stakeholders from state
and local governments, non -profit groups, the private sector, and federal agencies to learn from
each other and regularly share best practices. In addition, OSTP should consider other means of
accomplishing this goal, including working groups, task forces, and white papers. The  broad goal
should be for high -quality AI use while maintaining data privacy and security. The reciprocal
learning and sharing will benefit everyone involved and  ultimately benefit the American people.
●Incentivize AI Adoption: In our conversations with experts, we understand that many
Americans are hesitant to adopt AI technology in part because it is an unknown technology to
many. OSTP, along with other entities in the federal government, can and should incentivize state
and local governments to provide assistance and opportunities for  employees to understand and
implement AI initiatives related to creating more government efficiencies and impactful services.
The more the American people see the benefits of AI in conjunction with strong data privacy
guardrails, the more comfortable they  will be. States are said to be the laboratories of democracy,
and emerging technologies like AI are a great platform for states and localities to experiment with
various uses.


3 AI and Election Security:  Election security is of paramount importance. Americans deserve to know that 
the political ads they see and hear are genuine rather than deepfakes created to confuse and misinform. 
Further, Americans need to continue to trust that our elections are safe f rom cyberattacks, including AI -
enhanced cyberattacks. To safeguard the integrity of our electoral processes, the federal government must 
take decisive action to mitigate risks posed by AI while not impinging on First Amendment protections of 
Americans. Her e are four concrete actions the federal government, with OSTP’s leadership, can 
implement:  
●Mandate Disclaimers for AI -Generated Political Content: The federal government should
establish a nationwide standard requiring clear and conspicuous disclaimers on all AI -generated
content used in political campaigns. This includes, but is not limited to, deepfakes, synthetic
media, and AI -generated audio or v ideo impersonations. This can be accomplished in ways that
do not hamper the ability of campaigns to use AI but  prevent the malicious and dishonest use of
technology to confuse and misinform voters.
●Support Rapid Response Mechanisms:  Elections are largely run at the state and local level.
Over the decades, we expect more and more from state and local election officials, but ensuring
strong and secure elections takes adequate resources. The federal government can and should help
by pro viding funding and resources to state and local election officials to establish rapid response
teams capable of quickly identifying and countering AI -generated disinformation campaigns.
These response teams would be non -partisan, with the goal of preventing the spread of AI -
generated misinformation before it could garner a foothold and influence voters. Fair and secure
elections are in our national interest.
●Establish a Content Verification System:  Voters deserve to know the truth, especially when it
comes to voting for representatives, whether on city council or in Congress. Yet AI has the
potential to confuse and mislead voters with deceiving content that looks real but contains
knowingly false in formation. To combat this, the federal government, led by OSTP, should invest
in the adaptation of a "digital marker" or similar verification system to ensure the authenticity of
official election -related communications. One promising approach is the C2PA standard , an
open -source technical specification endorsed by leading tech companies and some states. C2PA
embeds provenance data directly into media content, allowing anyone to verify its origins and
track any edits or manipulations. This “marker” could be used on  media posts sharing information
about the dates and hours when polling locations are open, thus giving American citizens the
confidence to know the information is valid. The more confidence voters have in our elections,
the stronger our democracy will be.
●Increase Funding for Cybersecurity:  For all the potential benefits of AI technology, there are
malign actors who will attempt to use it for nefarious and illegal purposes, especially around
elections. As noted,  before, states and cities are largely responsible for administering elections but
need adequate funds to do so. OSTP and the federal government must show that they care as
much about mitigating potential harms of AI as they do about promot ing the efficiencies the
technology can unleash. Therefore, the federal government, with OSTP’s support, should allocate
additional funding to enhance cybersecurity measures for state and local election infrastructure to


4 protect against AI -driven cyber threats.  
AI Governance and Regulation:  It is possible to support and advance AI technology while still 
maintaining adequate guardrails to mitigate potential harm. For example, seat belt and air bag 
technologies improved automobile safety without compromising innovation and advancement. In the 
same way, the federal government can support and promote AI growth while taking necessary steps to 
mitigate potential harms through appropriate regulations.  
●Implement Algorithmic Accountability Measures:  AI, at its base, is reliant on data. And the
output from AI is only as good as the data and algorithms that go into it. As with any emerging
technology, there will be glitches along the way, and the federal government can put in guardrails
to reduce the h arm of potential glitches. As such, OSTP should require companies and
government agencies to conduct regular audits of their AI systems to ensure they are free from
bias. This includes, but is not limited to, b oth political and religious bias, so that AI technology
does not discriminate against anyone. This will make Americans of all faiths, creeds,
nationalities, races, and political affiliations more readily embrace AI technology, which is
necessary to ensure Americans are leading the way on AI.
●Prioritize Equity and Inclusion:  In the same way that the creation and adoption of email
changed how all Americans interact with each other, AI technology has the potential to be just as
transformative. If America is going to be dominant in the global AI landscape, we must ensure
that th e technology addresses the needs of ALL Americans. This means that AI policies must be
developed and implemented in a way that promotes equity and inclusion, addressing the needs of
traditionally underserved populations. The  more people and communities who embrace the
benefits of AI, the more leadership America has on the global stage. It would be a mistake to
believe that America could lead the way on AI technology while leaving some communities
behind.
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
Thank you for your time and consideration of these recommendations. 
Sincerely,  
Dr. Dorcey Applyrs  
Chief City Auditor, Albany, NY  
Alex Bores  
District 73 Assemblymember, New York  
Matt Mahan  
Mayor, San Jose, CA  


