1 
March 14, 2025  
Response to the National Science Foundation’s and Office of Science & Technology Policy’s 
Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
The News/Media Alliance (“N/MA”) welcomes the opportunity to provide comments1 to the 
Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) and the National Science Foundation, in 
response to the Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan, 90 Fed. Reg. 9,088 (Feb. 6, 2025).  
N/MA is a nonprofit organization representing over 2,200 publishers in the United States, 
ranging from the largest news and magazine publishers to hyperlocal newspapers, and from 
digital -only outlets to papers who have printed news since the nation’s found ing. Covering all 
subject matter and political viewpoints, the Alliance’s membership accounts for nearly 90 
percent of the daily newspaper circulation in the United States, over 500 individual magazine 
brands, and dozens of digital -only properties.  
We applaud the Administration for initiating the development of the AI Action Plan and for 
confirming that it “ is the policy of the United States to sustain and enhance America's global AI 
dominance in order to promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national 
security.”2 This statement builds upon the principles established by the first Trump 
Administration, which rightly recognized the importance of protecting freedoms and respecting 
intellectual property rights.3 We strongly agree that “with the right government policies, the 
1 This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan 
and associated documents without attribution.  
2 Exec. Order No. 14,179 , 90 Fed.Reg. 8,741 (Jan. 31, 2025)  (Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial 
Intelligence) . 
3 For example, in 2020 the Administration issued Artificial Intelligence for the American People , which reaffirmed 
the President’s commitment to protecting intellectual property in the AI environment, stating: “[t]he United States 
has long been a champion and defender of the core values of freedom, guarantees of human rights, the rule of 
law, stabili ty in our institutions, rights to privacy, respect for intellectual property , and opportunities to all to 
pursue their dreams.” (emphasis added ); Artificial Intelligence for the American People , THE WHITE HOUSE  (2020) , 
https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/ai/  (last visited Mar, 14, 202 5).  


 
2 
 United States can solidify its position as the leader in AI and secure a brighter future for all 
Americans.”4 
 
The proliferation of AI technologies presents great opportunity, but also challenges, for 
America’s future economic competitiveness, national security, and cultural flourishing. The 
Administration’s AI Action Plan comes at the right time, with ongoing discussion s around how 
to incentivize innovation in AI as well as production and investment in creative industries , and 
integrate AI within other sectors of the economy . These discussions come against the backdrop 
of an increasing number of deals between AI co mpanies and publishers. The AI Action Plan has 
the potential to be a transformative measure that secures  American AI leadership without 
risking the American creative industries whose works AI systems rely on to succeed. We want 
to work with the Administration to develop these principles.  
 
To be clear, N/MA supports responsible AI development, with many of our members investing 
in their own uses of AI to facilitate research, efficiency, and insights, as well as working with AI 
developers on an array of arrangements that allow their reliable, high quality content  to inform 
the developers’ work. But publishers should not be forced to subsidize the development of AI 
models and commercial products without a fair return for their own investment s, no more than 
cloud providers would be expected to bear the  costs of compute  without payment for their 
input . The future of generative AI requires sustaining the incentives for the continued 
production of news and other quality content that, in turn, builds and powers generative AI 
models and products. Without high -quality, reliable materials, these tools will b ecome less 
useful to consumers, and may jeopardize our country’s leadership in the sector. IP laws also 
protect AI companies, including when their original creations are misappropriated by foreign 
com panies.5 We are committed to establishing a symbiotic, mutually beneficial framework 
between content production and AI development that respects intellectual property, facilitates 
technological development, and takes a balanced, market -based approach to AI innovati on and 
regulation. Such a framework will accelerate and amplify the position of the United States as an 
AI leader, building on – and not sacrificing – its already globally leading media and 
entertainment industry.  
 
 
4 Exec. Order No. 14,179 , 90 Fed.Reg. 8,741 (Jan. 31, 2025)  (Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial 
Intelligence) . 
5 For example, OpenAI has suggested that DeepSeek, a Chinese AI company, may have built its models by distilling 
outputs from OpenAI’s products —an apparent violation of OpenAI’s terms of service. See, e.g. , Jess Weatherbed, 
OpenAI Has Evidence That Its Models Helped Train China’s DeepSeek , THE VERGE  (Jan. 29, 2025), 
https://www.theverge.com/news/601195/openai -evidence -deepseek -distillation -ai-data; Cade Metz, OpenAI Says 
DeepSeek May Have Improperly Harvested Its Data , THE NEW YORK TIMES (Jan. 29, 2025), 
https://www.nytimes.com/2025/01/29/technology/openai -deepseek -data -harvest.html.  


3 We focus our comments on a few areas of importance for journalism and the wider creative 
industries, together a backbone of our domestic economy and culture, and driver of influence 
around the world. Specifically, the nation’s AI policy and AI Action Plan should respect 
intellectual property, support the development of voluntary licensing in free markets, and 
promote appropriate transparency and fair competition in the AI and technology sector. By 
working within this framework, AI developers and publishers can help America retain its 
leadership in and continue to win the AI race.  
1.Current Law and the Role of Free Market Licensing
Most American intellectual property rightsholders are individual or small and medium -sized 
businesses that form the backbone of American cultural leadership in the world and of the 
creative economy. In total, core copyright industries contributed $2.09 trillion to the U.S. GDP, 
amounting to almost eight percent of the American economy, while also employing 11.6 million 
workers, not to mention the si gnificant contributions of the creative industries to America’s 
export trade.6 To sustain these investments and produce new, original works that power this 
industry as well as AI development, these businesses rely on intellectual property protections to 
protect their investments and monetize their content and brands.  
The role of marketplace licensing. The AI Action Plan should encourage the continued 
development of free market licensing to support a symbiotic relationship between content 
creators, publishers, and AI developers, ensuring that “American AI technology continues to be 
the gold standard worl dwide.”7 This means ensuring our markets work consistently with U.S. 
law, with fair competition and adequate transparency around how content is being used by AI 
developers to encourage fair market negotiations.  
Voluntary licensing is the foundation of our intellectual property marketplace, benefiting the 
American economy as a whole. Just like other businesses and property owners, content 
creators make decisions on how to monetize their owned and controlled proper ty in a way that 
maximizes their benefits, supporting further investments and employment opportunities. And 
in the AI space, free market licensing promotes both a healthy content -sharing economy and 
continued U.S. leadership in AI by delivering additional revenue streams for creators while 
providing AI companies with rights to access and use high -quality datasets for training and 
grounding. Indeed, marketplace licenses between rightsholders and AI developers are emerging 
6 Jéssica Dutra and Robert  Stoner, Copyright Industries in the U.S. Economy: The 2024 Report  1 (Feb . 2025),  
available at https://www.iipa.org/files/uploads/2025/02/IIPA -Copyright -Industries -in-the-U.S.-Economy -Report -
2024_ONLINE_FINAL.pdf . 
7 J.D. Vance, Speech at Paris AI Summit 2025  (Feb. 11, 2025 ), available at  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=64E9O1Gv99o  . 


 
4 
 in the United States and elsewhere with over 100 major licensing deals publicly reported (and 
many more that are not).8 These licenses cover a range of copyright industries and AI use cases, 
including Big and Little Tech (e.g., Google, Amazon, Microsoft, OpenAI, Perplexity, ProRata, Bria 
AI) and rightsholders from the publishing (e.g., John Wiley & Sons, News Corp, Conde N ast, Los 
Angeles Times, Dotdash Meredith, The Texas Tribune), film (Lionsgate), photo (Getty Images, 
Shutterstock), and music (Universal Music Group, Symphonic Distribution) industries, to name a 
few.  
 
AI content licenses are continuously evolving in response to changing market conditions and 
technological developments, and to support innovation and new uses of content, all while 
minimizing the need for government intervention or regulation. In contrast to more regulated 
countries, American technology and creative industry partnerships, including through content 
licensing, have made some of the most novel apps and distribution outlets for creative content 
possible, and AI services will similarly benefit f rom agreements permitting access and use of 
content. The development of licensing markets is also important for intellectual property rights 
enforcement, with the effect on the potential markets being the most important element in fair 
use analyses. In fac t, courts have already recognized the existence of licensing markets for AI 
use cases, acknowledging the importance of such markets to ensure sufficient incentives for 
creation.9 The Administration should therefore support conditions to sustain voluntary licensing 
solutions, allowing market participants to find the best and economically most competitive way 
forward. As OpenAI’s CEO Sam Altman recently stated, “creators deserve control over how 
their creations are used and what happens beyond the point of them releasing it into the world 
… the right thing is to make sure [they] get significant upside benefit [from AI technologies].”10 
 
AI policy should promote intellectual property rights. Of course, agreements are forged in 
reference to underlying legal frameworks. The key legal framework here – U.S. intellectual 
 
8 For a selection of AI licensing deals, see, e.g. , Trishla Ostwal, Dow Jones Wins AI Licensing Deals with More Than 
4,000 News Outlets Like the AP , ADWEEK  (Nov. 12, 2024), https://www.adweek.com/media/dow -jones -lands -more -
than -4000 -ai-licensing -deals -with -news -outlets -like-the-ap/ (reporting on Dow Jones’ recent deals with other 
publishers); Ella Creamer, HarperCollins to Allow Tech Firms to Use Its Books to Train AI Models , THE GUARDIAN  (Nov. 
19, 2024), https://www.theguardian.com/books/2024/nov/19/harpercollins -tech -firms -books -train -ai-models -
nonfiction -artificial -intelligence (discussing HarperCollins’ licensing deal with an AI developer); Matilda Battersby, 
Wiley Confirms It Is Seeki ng Further Generative AI Partnerships as Its Quarterly Revenue Rises to £296m, The 
Bookseller (Sep. 6, 2024), https://www.thebookseller.com/news/wiley -confirms -it-is-seeking -further -generative -
ai-partnerships -as-its-quarterly -revenue -rises -to-296m (discuss ing Wiley’s recent AI licensing deals); Kyle Wiggers, 
Perplexity Expands Its Publisher Program , TECHCRUNCH  (Dec. 5, 2024),  
https://techcrunch.com/2024/12/05/perplexity -expands -its-publisher -program/ (discussing the second cohort of 
Perplexity's Publish Program).  
9 See, e.g. , Thomson Reuters Enter. Ctr. GmbH v. Ross Intel. Inc. , 2025 U.S. DIst. LEXIS 24296, at *27 -29 (D. Del. Feb. 
11, 2025).  
10 Oversight of A.I.: Rules for Artificial Intelligence, Hearing Before the Subcomm. On Privacy, Technology, and the 
Law of the S. Comm. on the Judiciary , 118th Cong. (2023) (response of Sam Altman, CEO, OpenAI).  


5 property law — does not require revision. Our intellectual property law is capable and sufficient 
to address developments related to generative AI. For centuries, our copyright law has adeptly 
balanced the exclusive rights of creators to control the use of  their works with appropriate 
exceptions and limitations. In this way, intellectual property protects core American principles 
that have fostered a thriving creative economy at home and robust cultural exports. There is 
effectively no section of the econom y that is not protected or benefited by copyright, and 
stakeholders rely on legal consistency and predictability to support continued investments.  
Our intellectual property framework is tested and proven to address questions posed by new 
and disruptive technologies – from the photocopier to the VCR to the internet to streaming 
services, and beyond – and facilitate exciting innovations while protecting the incentive to 
produce and distribute creative works. It is not an accident that America both leads the world in 
the production of its cultural industries (including media), and is also home to most of the  
world -leading technology companies – including those in the AI space. IP laws have directly 
driven U.S. economic growth and protected uniquely -American innovation. Our laws set us 
apart from countries like China with notoriously lax IP frameworks that lea d to fragile 
economies  lacking the depth of American  original creativity and innovation.  AI companies rely 
on the  long -criticized  Chinese  business  practice of rampant copyright infringement to argue 
that we in America ought to abandon our historical commitment to protecting and promoting 
the development of intellectual property. This argument wrongly suggests that American AI 
cannot compete without violating our laws.   Nothing could be farther from the truth.  
And when disputes arise, courts can and do resolve issues concerning unauthorized, new, and 
unexpected uses of protected content. Presently, courts across the country are still deciding 
questions concerning AI and copyright and, as AI developers and rights holders agree,11 to the 
extent that there are novel questions of law, the courts are expected to be able to resolve these 
cases in a manner that balances AI innovation and IP protections. To that point, a district court 
recently ruled, consistent with Supreme Court preced ent, that fair use did not apply to AI 
training to create the directly competitive products at issue in that case.12 Our fair use doctrine 
allows for a fact -specific, case -by-case analysis of different uses and technologies, allowing 
judicial precedents to develop over time when considering different technologies and products. 
11 Meta, Comments in Response to the U.S. Copyright Office Notice of Inquiry on Artificial Intelligence & Copyright 
(Dkt. 2023 -6) at 19 (Oct. 30, 2023) ( “The AI industry is in its infancy, and the United States has the enviable position 
of leading the world in AI innovation and development due to its long -standing and principled approach to 
copyright law, which has made this country both a creative and tech nological leader ”; OpenAI USCO Comments: 
“As yet, the courts have not had an opportunity to pass on most of the questions raised in the NOI … OpenAI 
believes that the existing provisions of U.S. copyright law provide a sound foundation on which the courts can 
build as cases arise. ”). 
12 Thomson Reuters Enter. Ctr. GmBH v. Ross Intel. Inc. , 2025 U.S. DIst. LEXIS 24296 (D. Del. Feb. 11, 2025) . 


 
6 
 In this way, our copyright system allows courts to address and allocate liability for unauthorized 
uses of content, and industries to adjust and iterate accordingly . These issues, therefore, are 
best left to the courts. The sufficiency of existing copyright law notwithstanding, we remain 
concerned that many AI stakeholders have used copyright protected material to build and 
operationalize their models without consent , in ways damaging to publishers. While the legality 
of such activities are the subject of litigation, there is a danger that it will not be possible to 
undo the damage before a judicial resolution can occur. The AI Action Plan should therefore 
encourage A I developers to engage more collaboratively with content industries in a manner 
that serves the broader national interest and a win -win result for our global aspirations.  
 
Indeed, AI innovation and content creation can and should be mutually beneficial, with the 
United States as a leader in both sectors. Competitive AI models and applications rely on high -
quality content to thrive and survive in the digital marketplace.13 As OpenAI’s Josh Tobin 
recently noted, discussing the company’s Deep Research, “the quality of the data that you put 
into the model is probably the biggest determining factor in the quality of the model that you 
get on the other side.”14 Enforcement of intellectual property rights helps ensure AI model 
quality, which affects users’ trust and adoption of AI technology and the resultant outputs. 
High -quality models require high -quality raw materials, while the use of low -quality, synthetic 
material to train AI systems can create a phenomenon known as “model collapse.”15  
 
International competitiveness. The Administration should push back on the flawed text and 
data mining (TDM) opt -out frameworks being considered or recently adopted in various 
countries.16 These opt -out policies do not work, have the potential to harm American creators 
and businesses through the uncompensated taking of their property, overregulate content 
licensing, and turn copyright law and free market licensing upside down. Unlike in the  United 
States where creators’ right to control their own property is recognized, opt -out requirements 
 
13 See, e.g. , Meta, Reply Comments of Meta Platforms, Inc. in Response to U.S. Copyright Office Notice of Inquiry 
on Artificial Intelligence & Copyright (Dkt. 2023 -6) at 7 (Dec. 6, 2023) (“…machine learning models do not work 
without ‘high quality’ data —meaning that the data must be complete, de -duplicated, and free of errors … a large 
language model trained on a dataset containing sentences with proper grammar, vocabulary, and syntax will be 
more useful than a language model trained on garbled or incomplete text.”)  
14 Sequoia Capital, Training Data Podcast, Episode 31 (Feb. 25, 2025), transcript available at 
https://www.sequoiacap.com/podcast/training -data -deep -research/.  
15 See, e.g. , Ben Lutkevich, Model collapse explained: How synthetic training data breaks AI,  TechTarget, Jul 7, 
2023, https://www.techtarget.com/whatis/feature/Model -collapse -explained -How -synthetic -training -data -breaks -
AI; Ali Borji, A Note on Shumailov et al. (2024): “AI Models Collapse When Trained on Recursively Generated Data’”,  
arxiv.org, Oct. 24, 2024, https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.12954; Daniele Gambetta et al, Characterizing Model collapse 
in Large Language Models Using Semantic Networks and Next -Toxen Probability,  Arxiv.org, Feb. 2, 2025, 
https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.12341; Elvis Dohmalob, A Tale of Tails: Model Collapse as a Change of Scaling Laws, 
Arxiv.org, May 31, 2024, https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07043.  
16 See, e.g. , Digital Creators’ Coalition, DCC Written Comments in Response to USTR’s Request for Comments 
Regarding the 2025 Special 301 Review (Docket No. USTR -2024 -0023 89 Fed. Reg. 97161)  (Jan. 27, 202 5). 


7 effectively force rightsholders to forfeit their rights as technical reservation measures are not 
respected, in addition to many being largely untested and often too cumbersome to adopt at 
scale. Not only is the necessary rights reservation technology not available, the continuous 
monitoring of crawlers, AI developers, and intermediaries is next to impossible – especially for 
small and medium -sized creators – as is adapting to ever -changing technological measures and 
standards. Opt -out requirements also do not resolve any marketplace uncertainty over the 
scope of permitted uses, while licensing deals can provide the economic and legal certainty for 
AI developers and creators alike, incentivizing content creation and innovation.  
The United States legal system is built on respect for individual property rights – intellectual or 
otherwise – and the Administration has recently expressed concerns over other foreign 
measures that “limit American companies’ global competitiveness” as we ll as policies that 
“could require a United States company to jeopardize its intellectual property,”17 in addition to 
emphasizing the need to respect IP rights and support American businesses.18 Opt-out 
requirements – including those currently being considered by the UK Government, risking 
divergence between our two countries with currently similar  copyright laws – threaten the 
copyright industries’ continued ability to invest in new, original content and to create new 
employment opportunities for the American people, and may benefit bad -faith actors who 
would be able to misappropriate American conte nt with impunity. The Administration should 
oppose measures to undermine the intellectual property rights  of Americans , or facilitate a race 
to the bottom. The AI Action Plan should support free market negotiations and solutions 
globally, and require those  wishing to use protected content to negotiate and pay for it.  
2.Transparency
For licensing markets to be efficient and competitive, market participants need accurate and 
reliable information about market conditions and the use of their products. Transparency 
regarding AI developers’ collection and use of protected materials can sup port market -based 
licensing and industry -led solutions by facilitating negotiations and allowing rightsholders to 
identify when their works have been used. Model transparency can also mitigate against the 
17 Pres. Memorandum on Defending American Companies and Innovators From Overseas Extortion and Unfair 
Fines and Penalties, 90 Fed.Reg. 10,685 (Feb. 21, 2025).  
18 Artificial Intelligence for the American People , THE WHITE HOUSE  (2020) , https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/ai/  
(last visited Mar, 14, 202 5) (“The United States has long been a champion and defender of the core values of … 
respect for intellectual property, and opportunities to all to pursue their dreams. The AI technologies we develop 
must also reflect these fundamental American values and our de votion to helping people.”);  Fact Sheet: President 
Donald J. Trump Restores American Competitiveness and Security in FCPA Enforcement , THE WHITE HOUSE  (Feb. 10, 
2025), https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact -sheets/2025/02/fact -sheet -president -donald -j-trump -restores -american -
competitiveness -and-security -in-fcpa -enforcement/ (“[e]very policy must be geared toward that which supports 
the American worker, the Amer ican family, and businesses, both large and small, and allows our country to 
compete with other nations on a very level playing field.”).  


 
8 
 suppression of ideas and viewpoints by shedding light on whether AI is trained or operating in a 
biased manner or facilitating censorship. Currently much content on the internet is crawled and 
scraped by “bots” which are agents of US and foreign AI compani es or those operating on their 
behalf, which collect content in ways which can often be opaque, leaving web operators, 
publishers and other creators without the ability to determine the identity or purpose of the 
bot in question. This vulnerability has imp lications for copyright, but also security and safety. 
Promoting greater transparency in this arena would have broad benefits.  
 
Transparency requirements and disclosures do not need to be burdensome. The guiding 
principle should be to enable the identification of when and which content is being collected, 
used or has been used for purposes related to AI, and allow  American rightsholders to 
accurately identify when and to what extent their works have been collected and used in AI 
models and systems. Some AI companies are already taking this opportunity to innovate and 
come up with transparency and attribution soluti ons that work for both developers and content 
creators alike.19 Transparency measures can also provide exclusions for proprietary and 
licensed materials, protecting genuine trade secrets and commercially sensitive information.  
 
The digital ecosystem benefits from consensus – whether led by the government or by industry 
– and dialogue and standards -building can help develop transparency disclosures and other 
standards that work for all parties and are mutually beneficial. These st andards can support any 
potential legislative transparency measures and take into account relative risks to allow market 
conditions to develop further. They can also ensure that foreign AI developers and operators 
offering services in the United States do not unfairly disadvantage American creators or AI 
stakeholders, protecting U.S. cultural and AI leadership.  
 
3. Competition & Innovation  
American intellectual property laws promote competition and protect small creators and Little 
Tech against unfair trade practices, foreign and domestic, by enforcing fundamental property 
rights and facilitating market -based solutions. The AI Action Plan sh ould support measures to 
promote competition amongst actors, reduce abusive dominance by Big Tech, and prevent 
unfair competition in the marketplace.  
 
Without transparency and other guardrails to protect the marketplace, AI risks being captured 
by Big Tech, discouraging competition, reducing investments, undermining innovation and 
 
19 See, e.g. , ProRata, ProRata Invents Generative AI Attribution Technology to Compensate and Credit Content 
Owners While Facilitating Fairness and Fact  (Aug. 6, 2024), 
https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240806000889/en/ProRata -Invents -Generative -AI-Attribution -
Technology -to-Compensate -and-Credit -Content -Owners -While -Facilitating -Fairness -and-Fact.  


9 ultimately hurting American consumers. The Trump Administration has already rightly 
acknowledged these concerns, with FTC Chair Andrew N. Ferguson and Commissioner Melissa 
Holyoak recently having noted the need to “remain a vigilant competition watchman [t o ensure 
that]…Big Tech incumbents do not control AI innovators in order to blunt any potential 
competitive threats.”20 Similarly, in nominating his pick to lead the Department of Justice’s 
Antitrust Division, President Trump stated that “Big Tech has run wild for years, stifling 
competition in our most innovative sector and . . . using its market power to crack down on th e 
rights of so many Americans, as well as those of Little Tech!”21  
Dominant Big Tech companies are already tying their services, including tying search to 
generative AI, effectively keeping both rightsholders and consumers within their walled gardens 
and forcing them to accept their terms, thereby entrenching their market  position at the 
expense of rightsholders, consumers, and competitors.22 With no real way for rightsholders to 
opt out of these uses without risking visibility and vital revenue streams, these dominant 
companies gain access to vast amounts of data that they use for unanticipated and unrelated 
use cases. Startups and smaller en tities simply have no way of reasonably acquiring access and 
competing at scale with these Big Tech practices and advantages. Meanwhile, by inserting 
themselves between rightsholders and their audiences, the dominant companies also disrupt 
and manipulate t hat fundamental relationship to redirect revenue flows to themselves, 
disincentivizing future investments and threatening jobs.  
Meanwhile, it is often the smaller companies that are exploring licensed solutions with 
rightsholders, including by utilizing models like revenue sharing – showing that appropriate 
licensing is both possible and financially viable for both buyer and seller. Strong marketplace 
conditions wil l further promote and protect Little Tech against Big Tech’s efforts to dominate 
the marketplace.  
4.Conclusion.
While our intellectual property laws are well -designed to protect rightsholders and innovation 
alike, adequate transparency and competition in the digital marketplace is fundamental for the 
20 Federal Trade Commission, Concurring and Dissenting Statement of Commissioner Andrew N. Ferguson, Joined 
by Commissioner Melissa Holyoak, Regarding the FTC Staff Report on AI Partnerships & Investments 6(b) Study , FTC 
Matter No. P246201 (Jan. 17, 2025)  
21 Trump, D. [@realDonaldTrump], “I am pleased to nominate Gail Slater as Assistant Attorney General for the 
Antitrust Division at the Department of Justice. Big Tech has run wild for years, stifling competition in our most 
innovative sector and, as we all k now, using its market power to crack down on the rights of so many Americans, 
as well as those of Little Tech!” Truth Social (Dec. 4, 2024)  
22 For examples of such products and strategies, see, e.g. , News/Media Alliance, How Google Abuses Its Position as 
a Market Dominant Platform to Strong -Arm News Publishers and Hurt Journalism  (Sep. 6, 2022), 
https://www.newsmediaalliance.org/wp -content/uploads/2022/09/NMA -White -Paper_REVISED -Sept -2022.pdf.  


10 sustainable development of generative AI systems and the future of content industries. We 
urge the Administration to recognize the importance of respecting existing U.S. intellectual 
property laws, while expressing support for AI governance measures includ ing potential risk -
based frameworks, voluntary licensing solutions and transparency and competition policy 
measures that support licensing negotiations in the AI Action Plan.  
We thank the Administration for this opportunity to provide these comments and stand ready 
to answer any questions and to work with the Administration in developing the AI Action Plan 
going forward.  


