WRITTEN S UBMISSION OF THE NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE COUNCIL  
Request for Information on the  
Development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Docket Number NSF_FRDOC_0001  
March 1 5, 2025 
INTRODUCTION  
This submis sion  by the National Foreign Trade Council (“NFTC”) is in response to 
the request for information on the Development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
published by the National Science Foundation (NSF) (“the Notice”) under the direction of 
Executive Order 14179 Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artiﬁcial Intelligence  
(“EO” or “the order”), issued January 23, 2025.  NFTC  represents member  companies with a 
signiﬁcant foothold in the U.S.  and both global operations and global customers. NFTC’s 
membership spans every sector of the U.S. economy , which makes the tremendous 
opportunity of AI critical for each and every one of our members, from AI developers to 
technology enablers, companies that are deploying AI throughout their operations  and 
those integrating it into products. NFTC’s mandate is to support our members to succeed 
in global markets, which is why we are advocating for strong digital leadership from the U.S. 
Government,  including to articulate and champion a U.S. model of innovation -forward AI 
governance around the world and to ensur e markets remain  open to U.S. AI and AI -enabled 
products . 
About NF TC 
NFTC is the premier association for leadership and expertise on international trade 
and tax policy issues. We believe trade and tax policies should foster fair access to the 
opportunities of the global economy and advance global commerce for good. NFTC serves as a nimble and effective forum for businesses to engage critical and complex issues 
together and to foster trust with governments to improve policy outcomes in the U.S. and 
around the world. Leveraging its broad membership and expertise, the NFTC cont ributes to 
a greater understanding of the critical  importance of trade and access to global markets for 
American businesses, entrepreneurs and workers.  


OVERVIEW  
The N FTC  commends the Trump Administration for prioritizing and taking swift 
action to wards  a renewed U.S. Government approach to artiﬁcial intelligence , including 
throu gh its January  23 E xecutive Order . As departments and agency heads recalibrate from 
the direction under EO 14110, it is critical that momentum and the whole of government 
mobilization is maintained. 
Achieving the objectives of the EO to “sustain and enhanc e America’s global AI 
dominance in order to promote human ﬂourishing, economic competitiveness, and 
national security ” necessitates sufficient resources for the government to continue to  
develop and integrate the beneﬁts of AI and AI policy expertise throughout government 
operations . It is also critical  that the government support U.S. AI innovation, support 
America’s access to compute resources , including by meeting its energy demands,  and to 
create a market framework that  facilitate s AI adoption and  deployment throughout the U.S. 
enterprise.  
In 2024, g lobal services growth was  7%, compared to 2% for goods which remains 
below 2022 levels.1 As the United States rebuilds the American manufacturing base and 
reverses a generation of decline, it is critical at the same time that the government 
accelerate, not step back from, its position as the ﬂagbearer of the digital economy. Digital 
leadersh ip and maintaining the technological edge  must be afforded separate but equal 
prioritization. In our current economy, with low unemployment and a long -term workforce 
decline, harnessing the beneﬁts of AI domestically and internationally must be a top policy 
priority to sustain the world’s most p roductive workforce. Three -quarters of American 
workers are employed in services , and in 2024,  exports of services exceeded US $1 .1 
trillion, the highest on record. This contributed to a services trade surplus of more than 
$293  billion .2 This surplus can be bolstered b y AI’s pro jections that the technolog y could 
contribute 0.5 to 0.9 % to U.S. productivity a year  by strengthening  manufacturing 
competitiveness and the services economy , and when combined with other automation 
technologies and redeployment of labor, that U.S. GDP growth could be bolstered by as 
much as 3 -4% annually.3 
1 Global trade set to reach new high, with opportunities and challenges for developing economies in 2025 , 
UNCTAD, December 5, 2024  
2 U.S. International Trade in Goods and Services, December and Annual 2024 , Bureau of Economic Analysis, 
February 5, 2025  
3 Will generative AI be good for US workers?  McKinsey, September 2023  


U.S. companies operate globally . Achieving the above targets for U.S. growth 
requires a coherent international framework so  that AI technology or derived products  can 
be marketed or deployed where they operate and where the ir customers are.  Failing to do 
so creates  signiﬁcant risk to achieving AI’s beneﬁts for America and, by extension, its 
contributions to the U.S. economy.  
For the se reasons, NFTC led a multi -association effort to send a strong signal of 
alignment to the Trump Administration representing our combined thousands of member 
companies to ensure  that a cornerstone of  your AI Action Plan  is a robust international 
engagement strategy where the U.S. will champion its vision for  an innovation -forward AI 
governance framework globally and in export markets  (Annex 1) . 
This  submission  by NFT C is to be viewed in conjunction with th e letter in A nnex 1  
together  as encapsulating the core deliverables we  would like to see factor ed into the 
international framework of your AI Action Plan , and further elaborates on the importance of 
doing so. There are core concepts throughout , including  inter alia : 1) prioritizing  the use of 
existing regulatory frameworks where possible and AI -speciﬁc rules only where gaps exist; 
2)defending and championing U.S. long -standing digital priorities  (e.g., preserving cross -
border data ﬂows, and algorithmic and source code protections) ; 3) working with U.S.
industry to lead the development of  coherent standards and global rules ; and 4) to protect
U.S. market access , including by engaging trading partners in their legislative and
regulatory processes and by considering and prioritizing AI objectives in any future trade
negotiations .
There are governments advancing divergent AI proposals that risk the ability of the 
U.S. to  follow through on these objectives, which is why it is critically important that the 
United States not cede the ﬁeld to others. Doing so risks the U.S. AI advantage and, once 
again, risks the U.S. ’s ability to deploy AI globally. This means  using U.S. diplomatic 
resources and capital to coalesce countries around a U.S. vision for AI governance, leading 
multilateral and plurilateral discussions  at key fora , and resourcing and deploying 
government exper ts, including at the National Institute for Standards and Technology,  to 
develop standards and advocate alongside industry for those standards at standard-
setting bodies . 
As two examples  of foreign r isks impacting AI for the U nited States , it is important 
that the administration defend against  foreign government  use of their  competition 
framewor ks to scrutinize AI investments  on an extraordinary extra-territoriality basis  
between two U.S. domiciled ﬁrms . Similarly, the U.S. must determine the appropriate level 
of intellectual and copyright protections and not be restricted by foreign jurisdictions . We 
support the promotion of intellectual property regimes that protect legitimate rights while 


enabling  AI innovation but look to the U. S. government to push back on extraterritorial 
efforts that would constrain U.S. law. This will ensure that AI developed in one jurisdiction, 
in particular the U.S. , can be marketed or deployed globally.  
The multi -association letter focuses  on the technology of AI and the rules 
framework to support global competitiveness. A precursor  for America to scale and provide 
the level of data and cloud compute  needed to meet not only America’s but also global  AI 
demand requires signiﬁcant support for energy production, strengthening the energy grid , 
and support for data center  infrastructure . The U.S. is energy and resource -constrained in 
meeting this urgent need. To meet this global opportunity, the United States requires a 
strategic supply of critical inputs and critical minerals that cannot be sourced or fully 
supplied domestically under the timeframes  necessary  not to lose g round to competing 
regions . NFTC  encourages the a dministration to leverage new trade agreements and 
partnerships with key allies that can ensure a safe supply of inputs for the United S tates to 
meet  the growth trajectory of AI  demand. 
If the U.S. does not maintain the AI edge and succeed in supporting global cloud and 
AI access, there is not only a risk of losing market share  to foreign jurisdictions but a 
particular risk that countries will turn to China and Chinese cloud and AI capabilities , 
which creates data, censorship , and geopolitical risks . AI is a truly transformative 
technology that comes with signiﬁcant national security implications  that extend beyond 
competitiveness concerns.  The  government has already taken measures to mitigate the se 
risks throughout the AI value chain; from protecting the design of advanced computing 
chips used to train large language models to utilizing export control and related  authorities . 
AI is inherently dual -use , and therefore,  concern for its military application can not be 
ignored. At the same time, a s the technologies supporting AI continue to evolve, striking the 
right balance between fostering innovation and mitigating risks  is essential.  In the case of 
AI, in many respects , the strongest defense is a strong offense. Ensuring that U.S. AI and 
cloud are readily available to customers around the world and continue to lead any other 
nation with their technical capabilities is the best means to mitigate future  risk s. 
The equit ies for AI are shared across a range of departments and agencies. To 
secur e this path forward, it begins with strong  inter -agency coordination to bring coherency 
and cohesiveness to this effort.  In addition, while it is critical that the U.S. Government 
move quickly , it is cr ucially important that U.S. industry is a partner in this effort, that their 
knowledge and expertise in AI and digital technologies is sought in formulating the U.S. 
approach, and that any regulatory or strategy frameworks are fully consulted and allow 
notice and comment, as you are doing here with the AI Action Plan. 


Thank you for the opportunity to present our comments.  NFTC looks forward to 
supporting the government in further developing and delivering on its AI Action Plan.  If you 
have any questions regarding our comments, please contact Brad Wood, Senior Director 
for Trade  and Innovation Policy  (
Sincerel y, 
Brad Wood  


ANNEX  I: Mult i-association letter to President Trump on International AI Priorities, 
transmitted, March 12, 2025  
March 12, 2025 
The Honorabl e Donald J. Trump  
President of the United States of America  
The White House 
1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20500 
Dear Mr. President:  
The undersi gned associations and organizations represent a broad cross-section of companies at 
the forefront of advancing cutting- edge artificial intelligence (AI) innovation in America, 
developing products and applications that utilize AI, and integrating AI across their businesses. We applaud the issuance of your January 23 Executive Order (EO) on Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence and re -asserting this as a top priority at the outset 
of your Administration. We agree with the EO’s assertion that “with the right Government policies, we can solidify our position as a global leader in AI and secure a brighter future for all Americans.”  
To protect America’s AI edge, it is critical that your administration’s AI Action Plan include a 
robust international engagement strategy that ensures foreign markets are open to American AI. To this end, and to secure U.S. economic and national security, we urge you to promote a U.S. vision of innovation-oriented AI governance, safeguard our AI assets and stop foreign governments from impeding U.S. AI innovators and deployers. 
AI is already benefiting a wide variety of industries: helping America’s automakers to better 
design automobiles and develop autonomous capabilities; pharmaceutical companies to discover new medicines; financial services companies to better detect fraud; farmers to be more productive; and energy companies to explore, produce, and distribute energy more efficiently. Fully deploying AI domestically and achieving the potential of this world-changing technology requires U.S. global leadership to ensure coherent rules and access to global markets. 
In order to win the AI race, American companies must be able to compete, scale globally, and 
deploy AI solutions throughout their operations without the undue burden of potential market impediments. G overnments around the world are implementing divergent and non- risk-based 
regulatory frameworks that make it more onerous and costly to develop and deploy AI. These policies weaken market access for American companies, reduce sales of U.S. AI and AI -enabled 
products and services abroad, and erode the U.S. advantage in digital services trade. This risks diminishing U.S. leadership in AI and harms the ability of U.S. innovators to compete with 
aggressive technology deployment by countries of concern. 


 
China is countering U.S. AI leadership through economic statecraft and industrial subsidization while using its economic reach to push an approach incompatible with U.S. interests to every corner of the globe. Meanwhile, the European Union is implementing its highly prescriptive and overarching AI rules that burden U.S. innovation, which creates risks that other countries will look to this approach as a global template for AI regulation. Similarly, other countries such as Brazil are pursuing their own AI regulations that risk inhibiting AI and AI- enabled trade if not 
consistent with U.S. policy direction.  A common theme is that these countries are taking divergent policy approaches creating overlapping requirements with existing regulatory frameworks that are not commensurate with the risk, thus over- regulating harmless and beneficial use cases for the tech nology. These 
approaches stray from the preferred innovation-friendly U.S. approach to AI and restrict business activity within and between American companies. In addition, some foreign governments are seeking, on an extraordinary extra- territoriality basis, to halt U.S. investments in other U.S. AI 
developers, which further harms U.S. technology leadership.   At the same time, governments are restricting cross -border data flows, forcing disclosure of 
proprietary AI source code and algorithms, and requiring data to be stored locally, undermining long-standing U.S. digital priorities. For a technology that relies on leading U.S.-based and U.S.-developed semiconductor and cloud capabilities, these digital restrictions are highly problematic and directly impact U.S. competitiveness. Given U.S. technological leadership, it is also critically important to prioritize e ngagement and access to compute to ensure that U.S. 
companies can meet market demand in developing nations and avoid those countries looking to China and Chinese providers.   Your first term provided a blueprint on which to build and address these threats. The pioneering American AI Initiative, the first- ever U.S. AI strategy, as well as your administration’s digital 
trade leadership, increased AI research investment, led to gu idance on AI governance standards, 
and laid the groundwork for U.S. international engagement, which included negotiating the world’s strongest digital trade rules in the U.S.- Mexico-Canada Agreement and with Japan. We 
urge you to build on these successes and pursue a strong international AI trade and economic agenda by using available diplomatic and economic tools to deter foreign governments from adopting harmful regulatory models that directly threaten U.S. AI leadership.   In addition to bilateral engagements with trading partners, we encourage your administration to assertively engage in the various international organizations that are working to build an international AI agenda, including the G7, G20, WTO, OECD, and UN. We cannot leave the field to others to develop AI rules  and frameworks counter to U.S. interests. It is critical that your 
administration work alongside industry in standard-setting bodies to write coherent standards and defend U.S. interests. Finally, given growing global attention to the potential national security-related implications of highly capable frontier models, it will be vital for the United States government to maintain a partnership with American companies on joint research and voluntary evaluations to drive international standards and policy conversations to ensure U.S.-developed 
models are accepted by foreign regulators. In collaboration with industry, these workstreams can help translate the study of AI and its risks into concrete consensus- based standards that are 
interoperable and facilitate market access for U.S. AI and AI -enabled products.  
 


If this strategy is successful, America will maintain its AI leadership and grow the nearly $300 
billion annua l digital trade surplus with trading partners, making our country more competitive 
and secure.  Paired with a robust domestic strategy to ensure al l of America benefits from AI, we 
believe the U.S. international AI agenda must be framed upon the following key objectives: 
⮚ Strengthe n U.S. Digital Leadership:
 
●Assertively engage foreign governments to deter adoption of detrimental AI
policies that weaken U.S. AI leadership, restrict commercial  access or deployment
of AI-enabled products, and ensure governments do not block consequential U.S.
AI investments;
●Prioritize longstanding U.S. policies to support and enforce core digital tradecommitments to preserve cross -border data flows, oppose forced data localization,
and protect AI’s algorithmic and source-code integrity (including model weights)from exploitation or forced transfer, all of which are necessary to achieve AI’sprofound benefits;
●Vigorously defend U.S. digital market access from policies that undermine U.S.competitiveness, seek to transfer U.S. trade secrets, or onerously tax or burdenAmerican companies;
●Ensure that a trusted AI ecosystem safeguards our national security, economicsecurity, and critical infrastructure, including by strengthening cybersecurity; and
●Integrate AI objectives into the negotiating scope of any forthcoming tradeagreements, including FTAs and sector- specific frameworks.
⮚ Prioritize Global Alignment:
 
●Shape the AI and digital agenda at all major international fora (UN, G7, WTO,
G20, OECD), and do not leave the field to others;
●Partner with industry to drive global consensus in support of a U.S.- led
framework for international AI standards and definitions that enables regulatorycoherence and global adoption; and
●Actively engage with foreign governments that are developing AI legislation andregulation to protect U.S. market access and promote an innovation-orientedapproach, including by advocating for adherence to international consensus- based
technical standards , the use of existing regulatory frameworks where possible and
AI-specific rules only where gaps exist, and promoting innovation-enabling
policies like open government data.
⮚ Foster a Global Vision for an AI Future:
 
●Promote a comprehensive vision for trustworthy AI built upon American valuesthat can uplift workers and the global economy.


We, the undersigned organizations, are eager to work in partnership with your administration to 
advance thi s vision and to help realize AI’s full potential for our country. 
Sincerely , 
ACT | Th e App Association 
Coalition of Services Industries (CSI) 
Computer & Communications Industry Association (CCIA) Consumer Technology Association (CTA) Engine Global Innovation Forum National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) National Foreign Trade Council (NFTC) National Small Business Association (NSBA)  
Software & Information Industry Association (SIIA) Technet 
Technology Trade Regulation Alliance (TTRA) U.S. Chamber of Commerce US Council for International Business (USCIB) 


