From: Nicholas Fabricatore
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Sunday, March 16, 2025 8:51:44 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
To whom it may concern.
My name is Nicholas Fabricatore. AI is an undeniably  powerful tool for computation and
logic. It needs to be used in moderation. AI should be used for tasks that cannot be
accomplished by humans, such as processing vast amounts of data. AI has massivepossibilities, but if it continues being used as it has been, it is a threat to job security, theenvironment, and the education of future generations.
       Employers will use artificial intelligence to complete work that used to be done by paid
employees. Jobs like cashiers, teachers, artists, lawyers, and many more are under threat. AsAI models become more advanced, they will be able to do much more, and thus will pose alarger threat to someone looking for employment. The working class will suffer if regulationsare not put on the use of AI for companies, corporations, and businesses.
      Secondly, AI has a massive environmental impact. At a time when our planet is hanging in
the balance, we should not be embracing a technology that puts more carbon into theatmosphere.
 
      Lastly, the ease of access  to AI has corroded independent thought. We need to stop
embracing AI everywhere so we as a society have time to consider the ramifications ofoffloading the task of thinking onto a machine. Students are using AI to breeze throughclasses, and when they need to apply knowledge or think critically, they'll have forgottenhow.
 
     AI is going to require careful consideration going forward, and the needs of the many
should be weighed  over the needs of the wealthy few.
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the governmentin developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.”
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


