From: Nicholas Davies
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] Comment on AI action plan
Date: Monday, March 17, 2025 9:19:22 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
I object to the proposal to allow non-contractual use of copyright materials in AI data sets.  
It is not "America's" AI dominance we're taking about here, it is the dominance of a few
monopolistic multinational corporations. Permitting them to strip mine our cultural resourceswill not stop them from offshoring their jobs as they please. Ordinary Americans have nothingto gain from this. Least of all those who make writing or art or other digestible art forms.
 
Furthermore, commercial AI models have only a modest edge over current open source AImodels, which are globally available. This is not an industry where we can have and maintainany lasting advantage.
 
Meanwhile, what we're being expected to sacrifice is significant. American copyright losesmonetary value if it can no longer be granted exclusively in a contract.
 
If any work produced by an American can be instantly and freely ingested in an AI model,reproduced, modified without consent and resold, this will discourage Americans fromcreating, and it will discourage writers and artists from living in the USA. We will beabdicating our cultural high ground.
There is nothing stopping OpenAI, Google, and others from purchasing the rights to the works
they want to make use of, in their derivative work. They are just asking for a handout--ahandout of monumental proportions--that would be very damaging to the public interest.
 
There are some AI developers ethically and consensually sourcing their data. We are alreadygiving bad actors too much free rein.
I work as a software developer, at a company that, like many, includes AI capabilities in our
products. While I understand the usefulness of AI, I want to see ethically sourced AI becomethe norm. I don't want my work--helping office workers draft boring emails--to come at theexpense of my friends who are artists and writers.
 
Thanks
Nick Davies
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


