1 Submitted electronically via 
March 15, 2025 
Re: Comments  of Nielsen to Office of Science and Technology  Policy Request for 
Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Dear Mr. D’Souza, 
Nielsen welcomes  the opportunity  to comment on the development  of an AI action plan by the 
Office of Science and Technology Policy at the White House.  
Nielsen is a proud American company that is both a developer and deployer of artificial 
intelligence models and a global leader in independent audience measurement, data and 
analytics,  shaping the future of media. Nielsen measures across all media channels and platforms 
to discover what audiences love. Furthermore, Nielsen's Gracenote is the industry's leading 
media and entertainment  metadata provider. For over 40 years, Gracenote  has created, collected, 
and organized detailed information about TV  shows, sports, movies, and music.  Gracenote 
creates, publishes, and licenses programming "metadata" —including detailed content attributes, 
associated talent, and information about television shows, movies, programming schedules, and 
related subjects. Gracenote  provides its services to thousands  of companies  that serve millions of 
consumers and is a leader in AI development.  
At Nielsen, we believe that for the U.S. to continue its AI dominance,  the action plan should 
focus on the following:  
Passage of Comprehensive  Federal Privacy Legislation  
The root of a prosperous U.S. -led AI ecosystem is passing comprehensive, preemptive federal 
privacy legislation. Data is the currency and foundation to advance trustworthy AI. A national 
privacy framework  provides predictability  in the marketplace,  exponentially  accelerating  growth 
and U.S. dominance in AI. We recommend the Trump Administration prioritize its passage.  


2  
 Prioritize  Intellectual  Property  Protection,  Data Accuracy,  Transparency,  and 
Cross-Industry Data Provenance Standards  
 
Any AI model is only as good as the data it ingests. We must protect intellectual property and 
ensure that training data is high -quality, accurate, relevant, auditable, secure, and consistent to 
produce precise and robust outputs. This includes monitoring and curating empirical datasets 
ingested for deviations, drifts, anomalies, and bias. Creators, rightsholders, and businesses who 
produce or maintain data provide the crucial currency that feeds the development of these AI 
models. We should strive to harmonize  and balance existing copyright  laws for both the needs of 
AI developers to create their models and legally access data while putting in place safeguards to 
comply with relevant privacy or copyright legal frameworks. This approach protects American 
businesses from cheap knock -offs using American -grade innovation . 
 
With the increasing pace of AI development, adoption, and transformation within industries, 
cross-industry data provenance standardization to evaluate the origin of data sources must be 
prioritized.  The standards  promote trust and transparency  in the data collection  by understanding 
where it came from, how it was created, and whether it may legally be used.1 Sound data 
governance practices grounded in provenance and transparency will increase AI’s value to 
businesses and greater adoption of AI.  Transparency through data provenance will also allow 
businesses to make informed decisions about the validity of the data sources, speeding up 
innovation by increasing efficiency, accuracy, and quality assurance processes.2 
 
Without robust data provenance, low -quality and biased data will run rampant, increasing 
business time and costs in cleaning up the data and slowing innovation and progress in this 
space. Thus, we recommend  supporting  efforts in cross-industry data provenance  standardization 
and rejecting efforts that ignore data sourcing and intellectual property protections both for data 
rightsholder and the model developer.  Data provenance will allow for explainability and 
transparency into data collection practices throughout the AI development cycle.  
 
Adopt a Risk Based Approach  to AI 
 
Adopting  an approach that focuses on high-risk applications  based on the intended use cases and 
purposes will continue to enable innovation while mitigating risks. For example, AI use cases 
with a high risk of harming basic human rights and freedoms should face a higher degree of 
scrutiny, including impact assessments, bias testing, and thorough transparency and 
explainability measures. NIST has started the process in this space by producing a Risk 
Management Framework that serves as the industry's foundation for AI risk management. We 
recommend adopting NIST's flexible AI Risk Management Framework approach for evaluating 
and mitigating AI risk, which includes a focus on high -risk solutions and use -case profiles.  
1. Data & Trust Alliance, Data Provenance  Standards  Executive  Overview  
2. Ibid. 


3 Existing Sector-Specific Regulatory  Authorities  
The Government should not create a new tax -funded agency that may overlap in jurisdiction, 
stifling and slowing U.S. dominance and empowering competition to take the lead. Instead, the 
Government should allow for an agile, collaborative, and consistent approach to AI governance 
by leveraging and increasing support of its existing regulatory structures, as AI is already being 
deployed in numerous  fields with the appropriate  oversight.  Agencies can address AI risks within 
their areas of expertise and statutory authority and resist the temptation to have one agency 
become an AI regulatory “one stop shop.”  The government instead should focus on clearly 
defining the scope of authority to avoid regulatory overreach and redundancies.  
Conclusion  
We appreciate the opportunity to provide feedback to OSTP and applaud the Administration's 
interest in positioning  the United States as the AI global leader. Nielsen stands ready and willing 
to work to provide our expertise in data integrity and insights as OSTP and the Administration 
work to finalize an AI Action Plan.  
David W. Kenny 
Executive  Chairman 
NIELSEN  
NIELSEN  
601 Pennsylvania  Avenue NW 
South Building Suite 900 
Washington DC 20004  
Disclaimer:  “This document  is approved for public dissemination.  The document  contains no 
business-proprietary  or confidential  information.  Document  contents may be reused by the government  in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.”  


