1 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
March 14, 2025
  
Kirk Dohne  
Acting Director  
National Coordination Office  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development  
490 L'Enfant Plaza SW, Suite 8001  
Washington, DC 20024  
 
 
RE: Comments on the  Request for Information: Development of an Artificial Intel-
ligence Action Plan   
 
Dear Acting Director Dohne:  
 
The National Multifamily Housing Council ( NMHC ), National Apartment  Association ( NAA ) and 
Real Estate Technology and Transformation Center (RETTC)1 value the opportunity to provide 
these comments in response to the NITRD NCO ’s Request for Information on Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan. We commend President Trump for pursuing an AI Action 
Plan as part of the Presidential Executive Order on January 23, 2025 . Thank you for the oppor-
tunity to share the view of rental housing providers and the technology companies that partner 
with them as the Administration examines the risks and opportunities of rapidly evolving AI tech-
nolog y. 
 
Background  
 
Rental housing providers use emerging technologies, like AI, to reshape business operations, im-
prove housing affordability and benefit millions of American renters.  While commonly perceived 
to be new technologies, AI and related technologies in rental housing have already led to 
 
1 The National Multifamily Housing Council (NMHC), the National Apartment Association (NAA) and the 
Real Estate Technology & Transformation Center (RETTC) partner on behalf of America's rental housing 
providers and technology suppliers that are driving innovation and hel ping assist in addressing our long -
term housing challenges. Drawing on the knowledge and policy expertise of staff in Washington, D.C., as 
well as the advocacy power of over 140 NAA state and local affiliated associations, NMHC, NAA and RETTC 
provide a sin gle voice for rental housing developers, owners and operators and the technology suppliers 
that are driving innovation and helping assist in addressing our long -term housing challenges. One -third 
of all Americans call a rental property home —where, increasi ngly, technology solutions are being leveraged 
to modernize property operations, improve housing affordability and enhance the resident experience.  


2 significant gains in meeting resident expectation s and demand. Applications of this technology 
continue to grow rapidly but, to date, include virtual touring, enhanced resident screening and 
leasing, home automation, predictive maintenance, and even improved property level climate re-
silience.  
These tools offer benefits to housing providers and residents alike, driving modernization of  his-
toric practices and maximizing operational efficiency and improving housing outcomes. They are 
also subject to robust internal controls, existing legal protections, and regulatory requirements at 
the federal,  state and local level that should be considered before overlaying any additional regu-
lations.  
Benefits of AI for Residents , Rental Housing Providers and Others  
Below are some  examples of how  stakeholders in the multifamily space are utilizing AI and other 
technologies to improve operations and enhance renters’ experiences:  
•Rental housing owners and lenders  leverage technology platforms to improve effi-
cienc y, underwrite lending, identify investment opportunities to meet growing rental de-
mand and work towards improving housing affordability.
•Rental housing developers  use new cutting -edge technologies to build and rehabili-
tate rental properties and have begun to cut costs by leveraging AI to navigate complex
and antiquated zoning policies to identify workable land -use strategies to speed develop-
ment and ultimately improve housing affordability.
•Rental housing operators  use AI platforms for improved resident service; more trans-
parent and accurate resident screening and leasing to improve housing opportunity and
prevent rising rental housing fraud; home automation; and predictive maintenance.
•Rental housing technology suppliers  are transforming the market with tools that
improve the resident experience, enable property sustainability and resilience, enhance
security for residents, and lower operational costs through risk management solutions.
As evidenced above, housing providers are turning to these new AI tools to combat rising opera-
tional threats that are difficult to address using traditional methods. When implemented properly, 
these technologies can greatly assist with management and other  housing -related obligations and 
ensure residents receive the best living experience possible.  
The rise in fraud in the application and leasing process presents a notable case study on the ben-
efits of AI. NMHC and NAA surveys2 and reports3 have found staggering increases in application 
2 National Multifamily Housing Council, “NMHC Pulse Survey: Analyzing the Operational Impact of Rental Applica-
tion Fraud and Bad Debt,” https://www.nmhc.org/research -insight/research -report/nmhc -pulsesurvey -analyzing -
the-operational -impact -of-rental -application -fraud -and-bad-debt .  
3 National Apartment Association, “Synthetic Fraud: How to Identify, Respond To & Prevent It,”  
https://www.naahq.org/synthetic -fraud .  


3 
 fraud. A vast majority of respondents (93.3%) experienced fraud in the past twelve months and 
most also (70.7%) reported experiencing an increase in fraudulent applications and payments 
where the person utilized fraudulent documentation, financial statemen ts and even identities. In-
dividuals who submit fraudulent applications and subsequently fail to pay rent account for 
roughly 1 in 4 (23.8%) of eviction filings. This also drives up housing costs broadly due to nonpay-
ment, with apartment owners, developers and managers forced to write off an average of roughly 
$1 million in bad debt stemming from nonpayment due to fraudulent applications. By integrating 
AI technologies into the screening process, housing providers are pursuing new avenues to better 
identify and combat application fraud. Over time, this will reduce evictions, lower costs, and pre-
vent renters from fraudulently securing unsustainable leases that result in bad debt.  
 
Similarly, underwriting is a critical part of the lending process, and its accuracy is highly depend-
ent on the quality of the available information. Incorporating AI enhances housing owners’ and 
financiers’ ability to effectively underwrite lending and ult imately improve housing supply and 
lower housing costs as a result.  
 
In addition, empirical evidence suggests that while AI systems are far from perfect, they appear 
to result in less bias than human beings and may be taught to avoid bias, including in underwrit-
ing. For example, renewing or enforcing leases, helping to guide  rental pricing, screening appli-
cants for rental housing and taking other resident -facing actions can be time -consuming, costly 
and inconsistent, despite the best efforts of property owners and managers. Some housing pro-
viders use, or are considering usin g, technology to address these issues  that arise within their own 
communities. Industry practices include providing for human , individualized oversight of deci-
sions recommended by AI systems so that the automated recommendation is just one component 
in a process that gives humans the best information on which to make a decision.  
 
Consumer Data and the Need for Federal Privacy Protections  
 
The relationship between the resident and the housing provider may span years and involve the 
collection and use of various types of information. Consumer data contained in resident  screening 
reports and held by property managers and their service providers is crucial in accounting for 
rental history, tenure and payment data, which make up an important part of a resident’s profile. 
These data points can also serve as tools to improve  a resident’s housing opportunities in the fu-
ture. Rental housing owners an d operators, and their service providers, rely heavily on highly 
sensitive, personal data about rental  applicants, residents and employees to run their day -to-day 
business and effectively integrate new technologies into their operations. Given the sensitivity of 
the information that rental housing operators rely on and the ever -expanding cyber threat land-
scape we face, our industry has placed a high priority on strengthening defenses against vulnera-
bilities and protecting sensitive data and consumer privacy .  
 
To effectively regulate AI and emerging technologies used by the rental housing industry and be-
yond, NMHC , NAA  and RETTC strongly believe that it is necessary to first establish a compre-
hensive federal data privacy standard, and we hope to continue working with Congress and the 
Administration to ensure that any legislation or regulation recognizes the unique nature and 


4 needs of the rental housing industry while ensuring the data that our members collect, use, and 
maintain is secure.  
Industry -Driven Efforts  and Existing State and Federal Regulations are Protecting  
Consumers  
Rental housing providers have worked to develop robust internal compliance plans and provide 
appropriate guardrails around their uses of AI, recognizing the key role these protections play in 
ensuring continued positive outcomes for all impacted parties. NMHC , NAA and RETTC  have 
been at the forefront of helping rental housing providers navigate new technology by facilitating 
the creation of educational resources for our members. NMHC , NAA  and RETTC  members have 
also acknowledged the need for continual, internal review as users of third -party tools to ensure 
that both business operations and resident impacts are understood, and negative outcomes are 
mitigated.  
Existing State and Federal Regulations Provide Strong Consumer Protection  
Because the relative availability of AI systems has changed recently, the public impression is 
that the issues are also new, giving the impression that new rules and regulations are necessary 
to deal with them. This is not the case.  
The current legal landscape provides strong protection against risks posed by AI, machine learn-
ing and algorithmic decision making. Housing policy and the relationship between housing pro-
viders and renters are guided strongly by robust state and local  laws  that include protections for 
both renters and housing providers alike. Additional consumer protections  found under state pri-
vacy laws and regulations  are also another important consideration. At the federal level  more spe-
cifically, v arious federal statutes already  apply to AI applications with impacts on housing provid-
ers and renters . For example, t he U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) 
and Department of Justice (DOJ) enforce the Fair Housing Act (FHA) and similar laws, and the 
Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has general authority to regulate potentially unfair and decep-
tive trade p ractices. Additionally, the Consumer Financial Protecti on Bureau (CFPB) has rule-
making and enforcement responsibility under the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA). Each of these 
agencies has taken actions – ranging from joint statements to requests for public input and en-
forcement actions, among other efforts – under their existing authorities to ensure consumer pro-
tections are applied to AI and other emerging technologies.  
As policymakers consider AI developments, we urge that any efforts to regulate these products 
and services should acknowledge the end -user as beyond the scope of liability. This is important 
to ensure that future regulations do not unnecessarily stifle inn ovation or undermine the pro -
consumer and pro -housing benefits new technologies bring to bear. Further, incorporating safe 
harbors into future approaches is a proven method for providing the industry with the flexibility 
necessary to continue innovating as  technologies evolve.  


5 Conclusion  
NMHC , NAA  and RETTC  appreciate the opportunity to provide the Administration with infor-
mation on rental housing providers’ use of AI. It is critical that any future regulatory  efforts con-
tinue to promote principles that prioritize technological transformation, data integrity  and 
acknowledge the legitimate business purposes for technology.  We are committed to working with 
policymakers and regulators on these emerging technologies. If we can be of  any assistance, please 
do not hesitate to contact us.  
Sincerely,  
Sharon Wilson Géno   Bob Pinnegar  
President   President and Chief Executive Officer 
National Multifamily Housing Council   National Apartment Association  
Kevin Donnelly  
Executive Director and Chief Advocacy Officer  
Real Estate Technology and Transformation Center  


