Dear Members of the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development 
(NITRD) National Coordination Office , 
My name is  Dr. Noah Grand. When I was getting my PhD at UCLA, I studied and taught classes 
on the role of social networks in the economy. These are the type of classes that I would have gone on to teach in an MBA program if MBA programs were hiring in my specific research areas, but I was ahead of my time.  
It is impo rtant to understand what so -called Artificial Intelligence (AI) is. These are highly 
sophisticated statistical models that try to some up with a probabilistic answer to a question or analysis of a problem. Imagine you are trying to figure out what you want to eat for dinner. A 
good AI model could understand the types of food you like to eat, a good diet for the average 
person, whether you have allergies like a severe peanut allergy, and order your dinner for you via an app like Uber Eats. However,  these statistical models cannot get the order right. They 
could order vegetarians a steak or a car ride to go to a restaurant instead of bringing food to our doorstep. Imagine if they ordered a meal with peanuts for our friend with a deathly peanut allerg y! 
Even mor e importantly, our national economy rests on a backbone of intellectual property law, 
something AI leaders want to violate. Earlier this week, OpenAI CEO Sam Altman claimed  that 
he needs to violate copyright laws and feed copyright protected work into his company's new language models to try and compete with China.  
It is impo rtant to remember why, for a century, companies from around the world have wanted 
to invest in countries like the United States instead of countries like China. The United States 
will protect companies' intellectual property. China does not. Sam Altman wants to ruin a 
backbone of the American economy so his unprofitable company can grow even larger. The free market should take its course and wipe out OpenAI, which does not have any end product to sell businesses or individual consumers.  
Statistical a nalysis benefits the United States and American companies. So do many other types 
of research. However, the types of research that companies call "Artificial Intelligence" does 
not. They only provide minimal benefits at a routine task like computer coding, because these 
statistical models are a high risk of adding part of the wrong code from a different task. A human has to go through and review AI code line by line. This work is tiring  since code can be 
so detailed and a misplaced comma or accidentally capitalized word can crash a program. (I've made both mistakes in my day.)  
Fundament ally, AI does not benefit the United States . 
It reminds  me of the financial and banking crash of 2008. Many companies had data of what 
they owned. Others did not. Whether they had the data or not, what they lacked was the ability to understand the data. Technology companies like OpenAI love to gather  as much data as 
possible. They say, "trust us, we're technical wizards, we can figure out how to use the data." 


I'm going to assume you have tried to use Google search in the last few years. Tell me, how is 
that AI powered search working out for you? It's getting worse, isn't it.  
As some one who did data analysis well enough to be hired to teach others how to do it at a top 
university while still in graduate school, I can tell you that it is incredibly difficult to actually use large data models.  
It's been a n open secret that when companies who aren't specifically tech companies are 
looking for "machine learning" or "AI" experience, they are often looking for someone who has a good handle on undergraduate level statistical models plus a more advanc ed statistical 
technique or two. This shouldn't be a surprise. These companies need to turn a profit, so they 
hire people who can actually help the firm. Meanwhile, companies like OpenAI sell a fraudulent 
dream of the future so they can get a handout from naive people in government and venture capital.  
It's impo rtant to close on that last word: fraudulent. By taking away copyright protections, tech 
companies like OpenAI want to commit fraud, stealing the work of Hollywood movie studios and independent writers alike. I earned royalties on 46 separate works in 2024. Companies like 
OpenAI want to profit from my hard work without paying me a dime. Instead of considering 
their lobbying, people like Sam Altman should be arrested for grand theft.  
Sincerely , 
Dr. Noah Grand (Commenting as an individual)  
“This doc ument is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. ” 


