3/13/2025 via FDM S 
Noble Research, 
The NobleRe ach Foundation supports the objectives of the AI Action Plan. We believe a 
successful AI Action Plan must prioritize engaging America's top AI talent – to include 
sourcing this expertise at scale for temporary terms of service in the U.S. federa l 
government. America is in a technological competition for the future of our national 
security and economic competitiveness. To win, we must not only prioritize developing and 
advancing AI technologies and policies but also nurturing and growing the talent behind 
that tech. The technical talent gap between government and industry threatens to hamper not only AI efforts in the government but also the private sector. Federal agencies tasked with developing and enforcing AI regulations, standards, and use cas es need personnel 
who understand both the technical complexities of AI systems and the unique context of 
government service. Having a functional understanding of public and private sector norms, 
processes, and cultures will enable acceleration of AI programs across the Nation. Programs like NobleReach Scholars inspire the next generation to consider public service as part of their career journey and demonstrate an effective model for addressing this challenge. Through strategic placement of technical AI tal ent for short -term appointments 
in U.S. federal government agencies, NobleReach bridges critical skills gaps in AI, cybersecurity, and other emerging technologies. This program creates essential pathways for knowledge transfer between government, industry, and academia that builds trusted 
relationships necessary for meaningful public -private collaboration. We recommend that 
the Trump Administration’s AI Action Plan build talent infrastructure at scale that address 
ﬁve critical areas: (1) Private -Public Sector Permeability. Establish specialized pathways 
that allow AI experts to seamlessly rotate in and out of the federal government through 
temporary assignments, ensuring alignment with evolving governmental priorities and needs. (2) Empower Intermediaries. Allow agencies to seek partnerships with intermediary 
organizations to carry out activities to support the development of pools of qualiﬁed 
individuals with the Artiﬁcial Intelligence skills and expertise necessary to meet critical personnel needs of the Federal Government. (3) Incentive Structures. Develop incentives 
that promote cross -sector mobility, facilitating seamless transitions between industry, 
academia, and government to foster collaboration and knowledge -sharing. (4) Early and 
Mid- Career Talen t. Design a program that provides resources and education to enable early 
and mid- career talent in the private sector seeking to join the government in AI -focused 
roles. (5) Government Workforce Upskilling. Invest in comprehensive training for current gove rnment employees on AI capabilities and use -cases to enhance their ability to 


effectivel y leverage AI in government service. The technical workforce gap in government 
around AI is not merely an operational challenge – it represents a strategic vulnerability. 
Our adversaries have fused together their civil society and military allowi ng for rapid cross 
sector innovation and technology sharing. Without sufficient in-house expertise, the U.S. 
government cannot effectively fulﬁll its critical mission to protect our citizens. Furthermore, by creating pathways for AI talent to enter the federal government on a temporary, short -term basis, we also can promote innovation and ensure America's long -
term global competitiveness. By prioritizing AI talent adoption, research, and education, 
the Trump Administration’s AI Action Plan will create the foundation necessary for rapid AI 
advancement and the enduring success of our country.  


