This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or con ﬁdential 
information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution. 
 
Strengthen State Capacity to Wield AI as a 
Geopolitical Resource 
By Noema Research 
 
In this response, we articulate policy objectives that we argue to be of strategic 
relevance to the US, and indeed to any global AI power that is determined to lead in 
the development of this remarkably powerful technology. This resource is structured as 
follows: ● New Resource Emerging. In this section, we describe AI as one of many 
geopolitically relevant resources, such as steel or energy. 
● Strengthen State Capacity. In this section, we introduce two straightforward 
policy objectives concerning this new resource. 
● Leverage, Credibility, Security. In this section, we re ﬂect on the geopolitical 
impacts of the suggested initiatives. 
● Barriers Versus Setbacks. Finally, we advance an intuitive framing for weighing 
the upsides and downsides of speciﬁc AI policies. 
We conclude with pointers to further resources related to the arguments advanced in 
the rest of the document. 
New Resource Emerging 
An effective way of conceiving of AI development is as the creation of a qualitatively 
novel resource based on certain raw materials and manufacturing processes. Just as 
steel production requires iron ores and specialized furnaces, and energy generation 
demands fossil fuels and combustion equipment, AI development necessitates 
computational power and learning algorithms. Feed in larger quantities of raw 
materials and more efficient manufacturing processes, and you predictably obtain 
more "virtual labor" that can be used to extend what humans can achieve. 
Perhaps more than any other resource that has preceded it, AI can be applied in an 
incredibly wide range of contexts. The intellectual faculties of these virtual entities may 
be harnessed to augment the productivity of the human workforce, may be directed 1 


towards strengthening the cybersecurity of critical infrastructure, and may be recruited 
towards furthering the development of effective healthcare interventions. 
Naturally, the remarkable generality of this intellectual labor forged out of computing 
power and learning algorithms may also be applied in ways detrimental to national 
interests. These virtual capabilities may disrupt the labor market in ways that cause 
societal unrest, may enable foreign adversaries to identify vulnerabilities in domestic 
infrastructure, and may empower rogue actors to interfere with public health in 
increasingly sophisticated ways. 
Like steel, energy, and countless other resources being manufactured on an industrial 
scale, AI is a highly geopolitically relevant resource due to its dual-use nature. The 
unusual origin of this new asset — largely, the private sector — has led governments 
from around the world to scramble towards achieving adequate state capacity with 
varying degrees of success. However , we argue that bringing governments "in the loop" 
is a critical step for effectively wielding this emerging resource on the world stage, 
navigating domestic developments wisely, and enabling meaningful leadership in the 
development of this historical technology. 
Strengthen State Capacity 
T o enact this critical step, we suggest two policy objectives: ●Measure capability consumption domestically. In order to credibly and
effectively wield this technology to further national interests, governments need
to ﬁrst and foremost become aware of the quantity of these newly
manufactured resources. Governments may especially bene ﬁt from gaining
insight into types of virtual labor that are of high geopolitical relevance, such as
automated hacking or automated research, among others. Governments should
have knowledge of, for instance, how much autonomous hacking is being minted
domestically, and how much of this capability gets exported to foreign
adversaries. They may also beneﬁt from, for instance, being aware of the
consumption of economically valuable capabilities, in order to gain a deeper
understanding of the impacts on the labor market.
●Pursue associated domestic and international opportunities. With this
enhanced awareness of the synthesis of these resources domestically,
governments may beneﬁt from building capacity for actively investigating the
strategic opportunities enabled by this understanding. We hint at particular
directions in the following section, yet here stress the policy objective of building
the capacity to investigate such interventions in the ﬁrst place. This may be
easiest to achieve as part of existing organizations with expertise in related
2 


domains, such as relevant public bodies (e.g., US AISI), and think tanks with a 
history of navigating the game theory of emerging technologies to advance 
national interests (e.g., RAND ). 
Leverage, Credibility, Security 
As governments gain awareness of the quantity of these resources and actively pursue 
strategies informed by this understanding, we expect the following beneﬁts to 
materialize: 
●Leverage. This awareness may help highlight the scope and scale of this virtual
workforce as a resource to be used in bargaining across the world stage. As
nations boast extensive natural resources, advanced military equipment, or
thriving consumer economies, so may the intellectual horsepower of these
virtual entities constitute an additional negotiation token to be used in securing
strategic deals. When composed with established policy practices, such as for
instance through tariffs on imported quantities of virtual labor , these resources
may provide a net increase in the range of available foreign policy actions.●Credibility. Demonstrating awareness of domestic AI development through
measures of capability consumption may help boost credibility both
internationally, as well as among citizens impacted by the synthesis of this
resource. Deploying mechanisms for proving the correctness and validity of
these measurements can further provide the foundation of credibility needed to
pursue landmark bilateral or multilateral initiatives on AI, analogous to howmany nuclear security agreements have been predicated on literal warhead
counts or tons of dual-use materials.
●Security. Similar to managing the proliferation of chemical precursors or
radioactive materials for national security reasons, monitoring the quantities of
dual-use AI capabilities being consumed by domestic organizations may help
governments effectively address emerging threats. Beyond the domestic setting,
surgical international initiatives may help extend existing non-proliferation
efforts in the domain of dual-use AI capabilities, such as autonomous hacking.Barriers Versus Setbacks 
This extensive optionality may be achievable at little cost to companies developing AI. 
Consider that computational resources used in AI development are estimated to 
increase by ~5x per year, and the learning algorithms are estimated to become ~3x 
more efficient in the same period, for a total increase of ~15x per year in the amount of 
virtual labor that can effectively be "minted." Assume that metering capability 
3 


 
consumption time incurs a 5% overhead relative to the baseline computational power 
of serving frontier models. This would be equivalent to a one-time setback of less than 
a week for the development of AI capabilities. That said, AI companies based in the US 
are estimated to be much farther ahead, potentially making it palatable to invest in the 
powerful geopolitical instruments detailed above, in order to be able to collect their 
future dividends. 
T o conclude, strengthening state capacity in AI by equipping governments with this 
enhanced awareness would allow them to wield these emerging resources more 
effectively in their dealings. By pursuing these policy objectives, governments can 
maintain leadership and ensure these powerful technologies serve national interests. 
We lay out a more concrete vision for how these remote measurement capabilities may 
be developed and applied in a dedicated resource on "virtual diplomacy." Noema Research is an R&D lab working on techniques for remotely measuring AI 
capabilities with a view towards averting Great Power con ﬂict. Based in the EU, we 
work with frontier labs and institutions from around the world to understand and 
manage the capability surface of AI systems. T o enshrine this mission, leadership has 
formally pledged to donate 100% of proceeds on liquidity to charity. 
 
4 


