A National Research Platform for AI Research &  Education (NRP AIRE) 
 
Frank Wuerthwein  (Director, San Diego Supercomputer Center and PI of “Prototype NRP 
(PNRP)”, UC San Diego), Louis Fox (President and CEO of CENIC), James Deaton (Vice 
President of Network Services, Internet2), Tom DeFanti (Co- PI of PNRP, UC San Diego and 
CENIC) , Derek Weitzel (Co- PI of PNRP, University of Nebraska -Lincoln)  
 
Disclaimer: 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
 Vision of NRP 
Connect every US- accredited institution of higher learning in to a world- class and secure 
Research & Education infrastructure for the entire nation, both rural and urban, across all 50 
states . An infrastructure to empower all institutions of higher learning to provide hands- on AI 
education, and research, providing world- leading access  to all students.  
 
In this white paper we show how the Federal Government with its AI Action Plan can fund 
a necessary transformative change for college education nationwide that can be 
sustained long term without ongoing Federal funding.  
 
The Challenge the NRP Solves  
Artificial Intelligence is primarily an experimental science [1] requiring expensive data and 
compute infrastructure to equip class labs. The fast and revolutionary adoption of AI across all 
STEM fields means compute and data access are an essential requirement for modern STEM 
education. Unless we take bold action, AI education, and to a lesser extend STEM 
education in general, will become a privilege of the elite because only elite campuses can 
afford to build and support the cyberinfrastructure to do so.  
 Based on a survey [ 2] designed  by San Diego State University ’s David Goldber g that received 
~8,000 student responses, we project there is a near-term need to provide formal AI education 
for up to half of the students enrolled in colleges across the USA. According to the Department 
of Education, there are almost  3,900 accredited institutions of higher learning in the USA, of 
which  less than 200 are “research -heavy” so- called R1:Doctoral Universities. There are about 
20 million students enrolled in  these 3,900 institutions. Approximately half  of them are enrolled 
in about a thousand community colleges , providing  training across a wide range of professions, 
as well as offering an affordable entry path to a bachelor’s  degree program  via transfer s to 4-
year colleges and universities . For example,  about half  of the incoming students at San Diego 
State University , and one third at UC San Diego,  are transfer students from mostly local 
community colleges. Motivating and e nabling programs that provide a smooth transition 
between these 2-year and 4 -year institutions  is a desired outcome of our vision.  
 


However,  our vision faces a major challenge: many of the colleges in the US, especially in ru ral 
communities lack the expert staff to procure, deploy,  and securely operate the kind of advanced 
computing infrastructure  necessary for AI education. Nor do these institutions have the staff to 
train their educators how to use such infrastructure and incorporate it into their curricula . This is 
a workforce challenge as well as a financial problem since many of these institutions serve  
areas where the relevant talent does not exist and cannot competitively be recruited and then 
retained given the  highly sought- after skills required, nor is it financially sensible to maintain 
such staff at most of these colleges, as their size and budgets do not warrant it.  
The NRP Socio- technical Solution 
We developed technologies and processes that allow a small team of system administrators 
and user support personnel to manage a national -scale infrastructure across thousands of 
colleges. It is well known, and well-practiced by commercial cloud providers, that the human 
effort to operate compute and data infrastructure scales much less than linear, likely  
logarithmically , with the amount of equipment under management. We added to this the ability 
to manage equipment irrespective of location. A college with an existing Science  DMZ [ 3] thus 
may purchase equipment from a broad list we recommend, rack it up, connect power and 
networking , and we take over management of the system from there. As a result, we eliminate 
the critical recurring operational and security support  at each college, by centralizing and 
automating operations, security, and user support in a scalable fashion (by critically maintaining 
all nodes at the same software release levels, and constant monitoring for improper usage, 
failed nodes, etc .). This not only reduces the total cost of ownership, but also improves 
cybersecurity by bringing all colleges to the standard of the San Diego Supercomputer Center 
(SDSC), a national scale facility at UC San Diego, and the Holland Computing Center at the University of Nebraska -Lincoln by  dint of us operating  the entire national -scale NRP cluster.  
In addition, we have already adapted social network and AI techniques to provide scalable user 
support to the community of educators on the NRP platform. We built a community of educators and researchers that actively share best practices in chat channels on a wide range of topics, supervised by our expert personnel. To further scale the support, we use the chat transcripts in 
our chat channels to train AI chat bots to answer questions from the user community.  
At present, our prototype includes hardware at 45 colleges, and 8 Research and Education Networks (REN s) across the USA and Internet2 [4] . Internet2 is the national network provider 
that connects the RENs with each other . We have a strategy to scale this out to a thousand 
colleges to provide  a million  students per year with AI Education Infrastructure as described 
below.  
The NRP Strategy to Scale out to the nation  
Our strategy is to work with RENs like CENIC [ 5] and the Great Plains Network (GPN)  [6]. 
CENIC is a 501(c)(3) with the mission to advance education and research across the state of 
California by providing the world -class network essential for innovation, collaboration, and 
economic growth. Its charter members include the California K -12 system, the California 
Community Colleges  (CCC), the California State University System  (CSU), the University of 


California System  (UC), Stanford, Caltech, USC, and the Naval Postgraduate School, and most 
of the California Public Libraries. The 116- campus CCC system alone has more than 2 million 
students enrolled, providing education to more than 10% of all college students in the USA [ 7]. 
The GPN is a peer organization to CENIC that serves  many  Midwest states : South Dakota, 
Nebraska, Kansas, Missouri, Oklahoma, Arkansas , as well as affiliated members in Wisconsin, 
Iowa, and Minnesota. All the RENs in the USA coordina te with each other via t he Quilt [8] , a 
national coalition of non-profit US regional research and education networks, and are all linked 
with each other, and the general global internet by Internet2 .  
 
As a collective  and in addition to their technical role, the RENs of the USA form a “social ” 
network that connects a vast number of institutions of higher learning, both public and private, 
encouraging collaborations via fiber, packets, and people . Based  on our existing work with 8 
RENs, including CENIC and GPN, and Internet2, as well as attendance at the annual Quilt 
meetings over many years, we know that most RENs are very keen to offer AI compute services 
to their academic constituencies but, not being their core focus,  lack the staff expertise to do so.  
 
A $25M investment over 5 years, followed by a steady state operations costs of $ 8M/year will 
allow us to achieve our goal of a thousand colleges and a million students served per year. The 
infrastructure operations costs would thus amount to only $8 per student per year, an amount negligible compared to the administrative costs of each college maintain ing its own 
infrastructure including the costs to support and train the educators on such infrastructure. During the first 5 years, we would scale up our work force from 3.5 FTE today to 24 FTE needed 
for 24x7 operations of NRP across our thousand colleges, and spend ~$10M for hardware that 
we would  install at  strategically selected institutions across the USA. We have found that initial 
hardware seeding  in campus Science DMZs  is exceptionally useful to stimulate future 
investments, and generate excitement, especially at smaller institutions. We propose that the hardware funds would be exclusively earmarked for non- R1 institutions  and institutions in 
EPSCoR states. The $10M in hardware purchases will allow us to install hardware in ~150 
institutions , motivating the other 85 0 institutions to make their own hardware investments . Over 
time, we expect all institutions to augment  their hardware to meet their student needs.  
 After the initial 5 years, we would expect the NRP for AI Education to transition to a long-term 
sustainable model of operations.  Internet2 and many of the RENs operate as 501(c)(3) 
nonprofits and fund their operations mostly via membership fees. This business model seems natural to transition NRP to. A combination of some of the RENs and Internet2 might offer NRP 
as a community cloud service to their communit ies, providing a complement to commercial 
cloud services . We thus propose that t he Federal Government with its AI initiative fund a 
necessary transformative change for college education nationwide that can be sustained without 
ongoing Federal funding.   
  While this transformative change is necessary for college education, it also expands the national 
research capacity to a much wider range of academic institutions. This i n turn has positive 
effects on local economies, especially in rural areas. The colleges we reach with NRP AIRE 
tend to have faculty engaged with the needs of their local economies on workforce development 


and applied research relevant to those local economies.  By encountering research 
methodologies in college the workforce is much better prepared for the kind of continu ous 
improvement processes often required from them in industry.  
 
[1] https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978 -94-009-2699- 8_8, for example  
[2] https://aisurvey.sdsu.edu/dashboard/ 
[3] https://fasterdata.es.net/science -dmz/  
[4] https://internet2.edu  
[5] https://cenic.org  
[6] https://www.greatplains.net  
[7] https://www.cccco.edu 
[8] https://www.thequilt.net/ 
 


