 
   
1 | P a g e  
  
Comments of the  
Nashville Songwriters Association International  
on the Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (“AI”) Action Plan  
Delivered via portal at https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/02/06/2025 -
02305/request -for-information -on-the-development -of-an-artificial -intelligence -ai-action -
plan#open -comment  
 
We appreciate the opportunity to provide information as the administration develops an 
Artificial Intelligence action plan.  We feel this is a vital step toward creating guardrails around 
this new technology in the interest of protection of American creato rs and their works.  We 
applaud the Trump Administration for prioritizing this topic and seeking the input of the 
affected community.  
In early 2023  the Nashville Songwriters Association  International (NSAI)  formed a songwriter 
task force to evaluate the impact of generative artificial intelligence models,  assess 
opportunities  regarding the profession of songwriting and  develop a set of general principles 
regarding generative AI.   
Those principles included:  
1. Human authors and their copyrights must be valued and protected.  
2. The use of a creator’s work as training material  for an AI system is not fair use.  
3. The evolution of g enerative AI is rapid and ongoing. Therefore, a ny laws or regulations must 
be regularly reviewed and be adaptable as generative AI  technology advances.  
4. Flooding the market with un regulated AI music has the potential to strip the United States of 
its leading role in  music creation and other forms of  intellectual property and can deva lue one 
of America’s greatest exports.  


2 | P a g e5. There are potential creative opportunities associated with properly licensed and tracked
generative AI.
Those overarching principles  ultimately led the organization to focus its pursuit of legislative and 
marketplace solutions that follow  an alliterative Four P’s – PERMISSION, PAYMENT, PENALITES 
and PROOF.  
PERMISSION  –The use of a creator’s work in any fashion , including learning by generative AI,  
requires licensing, and thus, permission .  Since generative AI software has likely ingested the 
sum of all music ever created that is digitally available via the internet, this would require 
methodology for retroactiv e application . 
PAYMENT  – Ingesting copyrighted work s based whol ly or in part without permission and 
commensurate licensing is categorical infringement.  Copyright owners and creators must be 
compensated for the use of their material in training  and the subsequent musical works AI 
creates .  Furthermore, AI training material and use licensing should be handled in the free 
market much like licenses for music synchronization are currently obtained and payment 
negotiated.  Various AI models are substantively different from one  another and so are output 
uses, so there will be no appropriate one size that  fits al l.  Each license request will need to be 
reviewed and negotiated by the copyright owners based on how the specific AI model works 
and how the training material  and outputs  will ultimately be used.  These nuances can only be 
discerned in a free market negotiated licensing model.  
PROOF  – Generative AI models must be required to keep transparent and complete records of 
AI training material in real time.  Additionally, a complete digital footprint of all usage must be 
kept including ingested material, human input and the output generated,  referenced source 
material in relation to output, etc.  In the event that a songwriter believes their  copyright has 
been infringed and they wish to bring suit, this information would be  vital in proving access .  
Additionally, it would allow good -actor users to credit original authors appropriately where 
necessary.  
PENALTIES  – Copyright owners must have the ability to seek penalties from bad actors who use 
their copyrighted material for training without licensing as well as damages when their work is 
infringed by the output of a generative AI model.   Like Tennessee’s ELVIS Act  and recently 
introduced federal legislation , copyright owners should be able to seek remedies in local civil 
courts including injunctive measures and damages for violation of the previous 3 P’s – 
permission, payment and proof.  By contrast, requ iring that such recourse be sought in U.S. 
District Court is cost -prohibitive for the average songwriter.  


3 | P a g eTHE NASHVILLE SONGWRITERS ASSOCIATION INTERNATIONAL  
The Nashville Songwriters Association International (NSAI) is the world’s largest not -for-profit 
trade association for songwriters. NSAI was founded in 1967 by 42 songwriters including Eddie 
Miller, Marijohn Wilkin, Kris Kristofferson, Felice and Boudleaux  Bryant and Liz and Casey 
Anderson as an advocacy organization for songwriters and composers. NSAI has around 5,000 
members and nearly 100 chapters in the United States and abroad.      
The Nashville Songwriters Association International is dedicated to protecting the rights of 
songwriters in all genres of music and addressing needs unique to the songwriting profession. 
The association, governed by a Board of Directors composed entirely of professional 
songwriters, features a number of programs and services designed to provide education and 
career opportunities for songwriters at every level.  
NSAI owns The Bluebird Cafe, a legendary songwriter performance venue in Nashville, 
Tennessee.  The Music Mill, at 1710 Roy Acuff Place in Nashville, where the careers of Alabama, 
Reba McEntire, Toby Keith, Shania Twain and Billy Ray Cyrus were launched, s erves as 
headquarters for the Nashville Songwriters Association International.  


