1 
National Small  Business Association  
Re: “Request for Information: Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan ” 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associate documents without attribution.  
The National Small Business Association (NSBA) thanks the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy (OSTP), the Networking and Information Technology Research and 
Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO), and the National Science 
Foundation (NSF) for the opportunity to respond to this request for information on the 
development of an artificial intelligence (AI) action plan (“Plan”) . NSBA is the nation’s 
oldest small business advocacy organization representing the 70 million owners and 
employees that make up American small business, championing efforts that foster the 
growth, strength, and impact of small businesses.  
AI is poised to reshape countless industries. Given the outsized role small businesses  play 
in our nation’s broader economy, it is critical that they have access to the resources, 
training, and policy frameworks necessary to compete in an AI -driven environment.  We 
applaud NSF’s past support for democratizing AI research resources, education and 
workforce development, and partnerships to accelerate AI progress .1 Going forward, NSBA 
urges OSTP, NITRD NCO, and NSF, in developing the Plan, to not only bolster support for 
these three critical areas, but also to  consider flexible solutions to AI policy issues that may 
arise down the road . 
Ensuring Widespread Availability of AI Research Resources  
NSBA believes that a level playing field for AI innovation – which ensures that small 
businesses have meaningful access to the same resources, computing power, and data as 
larger corporations – is critical to solidifying the U.S. as the global leader in AI. The National 
Artificial Intelligence Research Resource (NAIRR) is one such engine to facilitate increased 
access to cutting -edge AI research . We applaud NSF for its leadership in the NAIRR pilot, 
and urge NSF, OSTP, and NITRD NCO to work with lawmakers to make the pilot permanent 
beyond its January 24, 2026  expiration  date. If made permanent and properly resourced, 
1 U.S. National Science Foundation, “Artificial Intelligence,” https://www.nsf.gov/focus -areas/artificial -
intelligence#what -we-support-39b.  


2 
 
the NAIRR can be fully realized as a foundation for a “national [AI] infrastructure ,” one that 
is shared by small and large companies alike.2  
Expanding Workforce and Training Programs for an AI -driven Economy  
NSBA is committed to addressing the workforce challenges that the U.S. already faces, 
particularly as new and emerging technologies like AI become cornerstones of the 
economy. As such, we encourage NSF, OSTP, and NITRD NCO to consider ways to expand 
programs and partnerships like the National Applied Artificial Intelligence Consortium  
(NAAIC), which is working to scale access and improve the quality of AI and workforce 
training at community colleges.3 NSBA also strongly supports NSF’s EducateAI Initiative , 
the purpose of which was outline d in a 2023 Dear Colleague Letter (DCL). In the DCL, NSF 
offered its support for , among other things, “professional learning opportunities & 
communities” with the goal of “develop[ing] the next generation of talent” for an AI 
workforce.4 Programs like the NAAIC and EducateAI should enlist industry stakeholders, 
including small business, and support learning opportunities targeted towards small and 
lesser-resourced  companies.  
Supporting Small Business Through Collaborations with Their Larger Counterparts  
AI innovation is often concentrated in well -funded tech giants, leaving small businesses at 
a disadvantage. NSBA believes that NSF, OSTP, and NITRD NCO must work with both large 
and small businesses alike to secure U.S. AI leadership. We support collaborations 
between small businesses  and larger players including (but not limited to) external AI 
innovators, cloud providers, and research institutions. If incentivized by policies that 
encourage such collaborations, smaller players will gain increased access to cutting -edge 
technology without having to wholly absorb costs.5  
Addressing  Future Challenges Related to AI  
 
2 U.S. National Science Foundation, “National Artificial Intelligence Research Resource Pilot,”  
https://www.nsf.gov/focus -areas/artificial -intelligence/nairr .  
 
3 Shalin Jyotishi, “Community Colleges Unite to Scale AI Workforce Education,” New America, Aug 2025, 
https://www.newamerica.org/education -policy/edcentral/community -colleges-unite-to-scale-ai-workforce -
education/ .  
 
4 U.S. National Science Foundation, “Advancing Education for the Future AI Workforce (EducateAI),” Dec 
2023, https://www.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/dcl -advancing -education -future-ai-workforce -
educateai/nsf24 -025.  
 
5 Karan Sachdeva, “How Strategic Partnerships Transform the Way Businesses Adopt and Scale AI,” IBM, Oct 
2024, https://www.ibm.com/think/insights/how -strategic-partnerships -transform -the-way-businesses -
adopt-and-scale-ai.  


3 
As AI evolves, so too will the policy  questions that accompany this evolution. NSBA urges 
the Trump administration to remain flexible in addressing these future questions , while 
also working to implement a regulatory framework that provides much -needed certainty 
and predictability . Future considerations pertinent to small business may include:  
•Implementing a risk-based regulatory framework for AI that provides appropriate
flexibility for small companies ;
•How to best protect small innovators’ intellectual property (IP) rights; and
•Ensuring that the Small Business Administration (SBA) is armed with the tools it
needs to provide guidance , technical assistance, and financial resources  for small
businesses as they continue to adopt AI.
Thank you  again for the opportunity to comment on this request, which will help secure the 
U.S. as the preeminent global leader on AI.  Please do not hesitate to reach out to 
 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely,  
Rachel C. Grey  
Director of Research & Regulatory Policy, NSBA  


