1 
Response to Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan as directed by Presidential Executive Order 14179  
Prepared and submitted by the Northern Virginia Technology Council (NVTC)  
March 14, 2025  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  
About the Northern Virginia Technology Council (NVTC)  
The Northern Virginia Technology Council (NVTC) is an influential , vibrant, and 
collaborative  technology and  trade association with 500 member organizations . These 
members include  Fortune 500 enterprises, high -growth start -ups, academic 
institutions, and nonprofits . NVTC members have a significant presence in the Mid -
Atlantic region and a global reach through their products, services, and employees.  


 
 
2 
 
 
One of the nation’s largest and oldest tech councils, NVTC excels at convening and 
connecting its members, providing valuable tech -related content, and advocating for 
pro-business and technology policies.  NVTC’s mission is to accelerate technology 
innovation and promote world -class workforce development to create a thriving 
technology ecosystem in the National Capital Region.  
 
Bottom Line Up Front  – The U nited States  Will Dominate AI through Global 
Leadership  in Data, Talent, Digital Infrastructure, and Standards /Regulations  
In his inaugural address, President Trump reminded us of the manifest destiny of the 
United States.  
 
Above all, my message to Americans today is that it is time for us to once again act 
with courage, vigor, and the vitality of history’s greatest civilization…  
 
…The United States will once again consider itself a growing nation – one that 
increases our wealth, expands our territory, builds our cities, raises our expectations, 
and carries our flag into new and beautiful horizons.  
 
This response from the Northern Virginia Technology Council  (NVTC)  provides input to 
the U.S. Federal Government to apply this approach to developing and executing an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (“Plan”).  
 
As directed in Executive Order 14179, “It is the policy of the United States to sustain 
and enhance America’s global AI dominance in order to promote human flourishing, 
economic competitiveness, and national security. ” NVTC ’s response provides  input into 
the development of the AI Action Plan to achieve this policy.  
 
We believe that the transformational and disruptive nature of AI as part of an 
interconnected, global economy creates an environment where the U nited States  can 
sustain and enhance it s AI dominance  through global leadership of AI markets and 
technology . In this paper we present four critical focus areas for AI dominance – data, 
talent, digital infrastructure, and standards and regulations. The strategic alignment of 
these critical focus areas to national priorities , driven by AI policies that demand 


3 
effective public -private partnerships, will ensure the United States  retains enduring 
leadership in global AI dominance.  
We believe that the U.S. Federal Government should apply AI technologies and 
systems to drive efficiency, streamline operations, and improve service levels to 
citizens  while also ensuring a strong cybersecurity and national security posture . 
Federal agencies operate in complex environments with data dispersed across multiple 
divisions, bureaus, and operating units. The lack of data interoperability hinders 
effective AI integration and innovation.  We ask that a public/private partnership be 
established to create a structured digital environment for AI testing, risk management, 
and collaboration.  
We have all heard the phrase, “A rising tide lifts all boats” to describe government 
economic polic ies that focus on promoting  broad economic benefits. For policy  
recommendations  in the AI Action Plan, NVTC believes that “A rising tide lifts all boats, 
and United States leadership controls  the tide.”  
Data  – Accelerate Data Provision and Interoperability in AI  
Data are the primary  elements with  which AI systems learn, run algorithms, generate 
desired outputs, and improve performance over time. Policies that promote  the usage 
of established risk management frameworks and recommend standards for model 
development and enhancement through the use of model cards will ultimately drive 
high -quality, carefully structured, and managed datasets crucial for training AI models, 
while ensuring privacy and security. The performance, reliability, trustworthiness, and 
fairness of AI systems depends on the quality and quantity of data on which models 
are trained, with poor -quality data leading to biased and  inaccurate results.  
The AI ecosystem rests upon provision of datasets for various aspect s of economic, 
social, and political life. Currently, American science and engineering boasts some of 
the best datasets in the world. Expansive and demographically inclusive datasets allow 
innovative businesses and users to develop algorithms that can enhance productivity , 
from start -ups (e.g. , a health app for a rare disease)  to large commercial enterprises 
(e.g. , a financial institution making efficient l oans ), and governments (providing  
services directly and efficiently  to different demographics ). 


 
 
4 
 
 
NVTC makes the following policy recommendations:  
• Expand inclusive datasets . The government must remove restrictions that keep 
data in silos, except where firms collect proprietary datasets for commercial 
purposes. Well -developed datasets allow for reducing the size of the 
government while multiplying cost efficiencies across different sectors of the 
economy.  
• Balance privacy and provision . The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)  
mechanism in the European Union, that provides a risk -averse and cautionary 
framework for data, is often critiqued for restricting data flows. The United 
States offers a more permissive environment , with safeguards through legal 
mechanisms and careful applications of technology (e.g. , through anonymization 
and tokenization). The United States can continue to offer safe and trustworthy 
models of data privacy and provision to the world by defining clear policies for 
data owners that safeguard  privacy and enhance security and trust in data 
systems.  
• Ensure interoperability of multimodal data . AI systems incorporate various 
forms of data , including text, quantitative, audio, and computer vision data. 
Policies that allow for interoperable data across various modalities cater to 
product development and service provision. Intellectual property laws should 
balance protection with accessibility  to foster fair competition.  
• Establish Data Standards Working Group  with federal agencies and commercial 
AI model builders to set minimum standards for the quality and quantity of data 
on which models are trained. P oor-quality data lead s to biased and inaccurate 
results.  
 
Talent  – Bookend Strategy to Promote AI Literacy and Drive Innovation  
Regarding  talent and workforce development , the United State s should implement a 
bookend strategy that promotes AI Literacy to establish foundational knowledge of AI 
and Innovation through education, research, and development.  
 
To promote overall AI literacy, o rganizations must define risk taxonomies that are 
transparent and understood by all stakeholders , with appropriate mitigation plans to 
help prioritize and address threats. Risk categories will vary based on AI use cases with 
commonalities in bias, cybersecurity, privacy, and safety. The NIST AI Risk Management 


5 
Framework emphasizes creating use -case -specific profiles to evaluate risks at various 
stages of the AI lifecycle.  AI literacy programs should address all age groups and 
backgrounds with a particular emphasis on “AI Head Start” for early learning and 
development.  
To drive innovation, the U nited States  should leverage its critical advantage in t alent 
pipelining and skills development . Investing substantially in STEM education  at all 
levels is critical for building the United States’  future AI -ready workforce. Initiatives like 
nationwide student AI competitions, "innovation accelerator" fellowships modeled 
after successful startup incubators, and practical industry -academic apprenticeships 
are designed to  train and deliver  a new generation of AI talent. By cultivating  and 
supporting skilled  AI professionals, the U nited States  can ensure continuous innovation 
and economic resilience.  
Given the rapid development of AI, the United States  must include emerging AI 
technologies as part of the Plan. We can expect the next generation of AI to include 
autonomous systems known as “ agentic AI.” Industry analyst, Gartner , forecasts  that 
33% of companies will deploy agentic AI by 2028 . These agents are particularly 
relevant in cyber security. Unlike generative AI, agentic AI operates autonomously, with 
minimal oversight, executing and making decisions without human prompts or 
guidance. It can be use d to defend and attack networks.  
NVTC makes the following policy recommendations:  
•Similar to the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) that w as
created by President Trump in 2018, establish an AI Leadership Task Force  to
promote AI literacy and adoption .
•Leverage higher education institutions and national laboratories  to drive AI
innovation and applied research.
•Working with industry partners,  establish AI Leadership Projects  and promote AI
as a tool to streamline government and improve services.
•Implement a National AI Apprenticeship Program  connecting students and
career -changers with technology companies for hands -on AI development
experience .


 
 
6 
 
• Direct the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to publish an  AI 
Taxonomy  with key concepts and classification of AI terms. This taxonomy 
should be broadly communicated.  
• Develop an AI Credentials Framework  that standardizes industry -recognized 
certifications to increase hiring efficiency and worker mobility across the AI 
ecosystem.  
• Include next generation AI systems , particularly agentic AI, in the analysis and 
planning for commercial applications, civilian government, and defense.  
 
Digital Infrastructure  – Create an “AI Sandbox” through Public/Private Partnership  
The United States leads the world in key components of digital infrastructure , including 
data centers, cloud, energy, compute servers and storage. This infrastructure is critical 
to the United States maintaining its dominance in AI. However traditional digital 
infrastructure is insufficient to support the requirements and growth of AI. The primary 
constraint is energy. We need to  generate more energy and distribute it more 
efficiently.   
 
High -performance  computing and digital infrastructure  are critical to accelerating rapid 
AI development. Rather than building from scratch  or relying solely on  the commercial 
sector , the U.S. government can effectively expand its current national laboratories 
and federally supported technology centers to enhance computational  capabilities, 
data -sharing security, and experimental platforms , thereby  augment ing commercial 
offerings.  Continued investment in such infrastructure ensures the swift transition 
from  innovative concepts to market -ready solutions, sustaining U.S. leadership in AI.   
 
To achieve AI dominance, federal agencies must act quickly and drive adoption. The 
goal is not to remove AI guardrails , but to streamline the process, ensuring AI 
progresses efficiently through development, testing, integration, and deployment 
while maintaining safety and responsibility. AI is revolutionizing government 
operations by enhancing efficiency, innovation, and productivity , allowing  employees 
to focus on high -value creative tasks while minimizing repetitive work , thus achieving  
efficiency by doin g more with less. However, to maximize AI’s benefits while mitigating 


7 
associated risks, a structured approach that integrates best practices from both the 
public and private sectors is essential.  
NVTC makes the following policy recommendations:  
•Working with industry partners, e stablish  a Federal AI Sandbox , a strategic
initiative aimed at fostering responsible, secure, and ethical AI practices within
federal government agencies.  The Federal AI Sandbox provides a controlled
environment where AI solutions can be tested, refined, and deployed securely,
leveraging cross -sector collaboration for enhanced risk management and
operational effectiveness.
•Require energy regulatory bodies  to actively engage with power utilities to
increase power generation and implement enhanced energy transmission and
distribution to support AI.
•Develop energy efficiency metrics for AI systems  (similar to Power Usage
Effectiveness (PUE) for data centers) and use the metrics to evaluate the costs
and benefits of AI systems.
•Evaluate regulations regarding onsite power generation and storage  at data
centers including fuel cells, small modular reactors (SMRs), microgrids, and
energy storage systems.
Standards  and Regulations – “Transparent and Verified ” 
Similar to the Internet Era, the U nited States  needs to lead the development of global 
standards and regulations for AI in order to dominate the AI market. These guardrails 
should  promote the growth of AI for the U nited States  and limit the use of AI by 
criminal organizations  and nation -states . Overly restrictive AI regulations may  stifle 
innovation and hinder U.S. competitiveness. Instead of broad, preemptive restrictions, 
policies should focus on outcomes, leveraging existing laws to address harmful AI us e. 
Business -led standards can promote responsible AI. A flexible, targeted approach will 
maximize the benefits of AI  while effectively mitigating potential risks.  We advocate for 
applying the historical “trust but verify” model to AI to become “transparent and 
verified.”   


 
 
8 
 
To achieve AI dominance, the U.S. government needs to ensure there is a clear and 
consistent legal , standards,  and regulatory landscape that encourages and enables the 
development, implementation, and progress of AI while providing realistic and 
necessary protections for and controls on the development and use of AI systems. This 
includes whether AI -created works can be copyright ed, as well as the collection, use, 
and transmission of a person’s p ersonally identifiable information (PII) , the rules 
around the copying and use of data and information protected by intelle ctual property 
(IP) protections.  
 
Leveraging AI principles published by the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology (NIST), the NVTC believes that  AI must be explainable  (it supplies evidence, 
support, or reasoning related to an outcome from or a process of an AI system), 
meaningful  (the intended recipient understands the system’s explanations), accurate  
(explanations that are intelligible to the intended audience), and ha ve documented 
knowledge limits  (a system is operating within the scope of its design and knowledge 
boundaries) . The result of these principles is that AI that is being used to provide 
information for a specific set of tasks will be using models that have been train ed on 
appropriate data sources.  
 
NVTC makes the following policy recommendations:  
• AI models need to be clearly labeled  regarding the design, data sources used to 
train the model , and potential risks,  and include usage warnings and expirations.  
• The U nited States  should convene an AI Standards and Interoperability Board  
made up of government, business, and academia to define and promote 
technical standards and benchmarks for AI.  
• Require published documentation  made broadly available and free for AI 
systems prior to their commercial usage.  
• Establish guidelines and frameworks for emerging AI technologies  including 
agentic AI.  Iterate on these guidelines and frameworks as the technology 
evolves.  
• A patchwork  of state and local AI regulations creates confusion, increases costs, 
and slows innovation. Policymakers should establish a unified Federal AI 


9 
Framework  that preempts conflicting local laws while allowing states to 
encourage AI investment and research.  
•Companies need access to data to develop and refine AI models, but costly
licensing and fragmented privacy laws create unnecessary barriers. A National
Data Privacy Framework  will reduce compliance costs and support data -driven
innovation. Intellectual property laws should balance protection with
accessibility to foster fair competition.
Communication is Critical  
The United States has a tremendous opportunity to maintain and expand its 
dominance in AI through the policies listed in the paper. However, communication is 
critical  for the U.S. to succeed . We must communicate our commitment to AI 
leadership and demonstrate that commitment through national and global initiatives.  
Continued Dialogue  
NVTC welcomes further discussion with appropriate federal organizations on the AI 
Action Plan. Our membership offers a compelling and unique resource.  
Jennifer Taylor  
President and CEO  
Northern Virginia Technology Council  (NVTC)  


