March 15, 2025 
Faisal D’Souza, NCO  
Office of Science and Technology Policy 
Executive Office of the President  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue Alexandria, VA 22314  
Submitted  by email to 
Re: Request for Information (RFI) on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action 
Plan (“Plan”)  
I.Introduction
Oklo strongly supports the Office of Science and Technology Policy’s (OSTP) focus on policy 
actions required to support U.S. global leadership in artificial intelligence (AI) innovation. Advanced nuclear technology is well positioned to provide 24- 7 reliable, affordable and zero -
emission energy to meet the vast electricity needs to power AI. This submission describes specific actions the Trump Administration can take or support to accelerate nuclear adoption and strengthen domestic AI infrastructure.   
AI leaders hip is a civilization -level challenge, and we face a geopolitical imperative to achieve 
AI supremacy. Energy is the foundation upon which America’s AI future depends. AI supremacy requires and will create an unprecedented strain on our ability to deliver new energy generation. Coupled with the reindustrialization of America, delivering the infrastructure for AI dominance runs entirely counter to recent history and trends. We will need an “all- of-the-above” approach 
just to manage our base case for  AI needs, yet, at the same time, we have the opportunity to 
fundamentally reshape the global balance of power in energy dominance, the necessary condition for AI dominance.   
To address America’s needs for new energy, our recommendations can be separated into three 
categories: (1) secure a domestic fuel supply for nuclear reactors; (2) encourage commercial recycling of spent nuclear fuel; and (3) create a whole-of-government approach to nuclear acceleration. The pan -government approach to energy dominance should include comprehensive 
deregulation through the NRC, first of a kind financing for critical projects, comprehensive Congressional reform of nuclear’s regulatory regime, a nd a coordinated effort across our national 
security apparatus to ensure AI supremacy.  
Given the ur gent need to address skyrocketing electricity demand due to AI and advanced 
computing, we urge the Administration to incorporate our recommendations in the AI Action Plan and make clear that advanced nuclear power is a critical component of Ame rica’s ability to 
“sustain and enhance America’s global AI dominance
[1].” 


II.About  Oklo
Oklo is developing fast fission power plants to provide clean, reliable, and affordable energy at 
scale as an independent power producer. We are at the forefront of the efforts to transform the 
technological basis and business model associated with nuclear pow er in America. Building 
upon a half century of proven technology, Oklo hopes to create a SpaceX moment for advanced nuclear, unleashing its potential to deliver American energy dominance, to power our AI revolution, and to ensure, long term, that our post- AI future in America is not post- industrial.  
Our Technology 
Oklo’s reactors are based on proven liquid metal-cooled sodium fast reactor technology, with over 400 reactor- years of operational experience worldwide. Our reactors are inherently safe,  
requiring no operators, pumps, or mechanical systems to remain cool. We are building upon America’s investment in cutting edge nuclear technology in the first Atomic Age.  
In particular, using sodium instead of water as a coolant provides key advantages: 
● No high- pressure containment – Traditional water- cooled reactors require massive civil
infrastructure (concrete and steel) to withstand high -pressure systems, driving up costs.
●Lower capital costs – Oklo’s non- pressurized design eliminates these requirements,
significantly reducing construction costs.
●Faster deployment and scalability – 70% of Oklo’s reactor components come from
existing industrial supply chains, making them far more cost- efficient and scalable than
traditional nuclear-specific components.
Oklo’s ability to recycle used nuclear fuel, and our use of fast reactor technology that can utilize it, also gives us a significant cost advantage over developers whose reactors rely solely on fresh fuel. By leveraging recycled fuel, Oklo expects to cut fuel costs by up to 80%, making our solution more cost -effective than both conventional and advanced nuclear technologies that rely 
on fresh fuel. Oklo’s groundbreaking approach is redefining nuclear e nergy—making it safer,  
faster to deploy, and more cost effective than ever before, at a time when access to clean baseload energy is a civilizational priority.  
A New Mod el for Providing Power 
More significantly, Oklo, and the cohort of advanced nuclear companies that have emerged in recent years, represent a wholesale rethinking of how to leverage the benefits of mature nuclear power generation in different form factors and fundamentally different business models than the current approach.   
Under Oklo’ s build-own-operate model, customers must neither provide capital commitment nor  
bear most project risks. They can simply purchase the energy product they need. This model also increases the efficiency of our deployments by improving access to financing, encouraging alignment of incentives (e.g., between facility design and licensing), and fostering a culture of learning and growth across the design, licensing, construction, and operation of our 


powerhouses.  
Our busines s model eliminates the significant regulatory cost and risk burden on the customer 
that has historically been typical in the nuclear power industry. To date, the advanced fission 
industry is largely following the blueprint in which reactor developers seek U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) approval of their reactor design and seek to sell that design to utility customers who will bear the future burden of licensing, building, and operating a power plant using that design.  
In this mod el, the reactor developer is not incentivized to consider the full lifecycle costs of the 
design and licensing decisions they make in gaining a design approval, and they may lock in higher costs by obtaining approval of a less-than- optimal desig n. Oklo’s model corrects this 
inefficiency, as we are responsible for licensing and operating the reactors we design, leading to a relentless focus on safety - and security -by-design. Lifecycle regulatory, construction, 
operating, maintenance, and decommissioning costs are then built into our contract prices, meaning there are no surprise costs for the customer. The market has rewarded this approach with a more than 14GW pipeline of commitments from prospective customers, most recently in an agreement with cutting -edge data provider Switch, spanning twenty years.  
Oklo received a site use permit from the U.S. Department of Energy, was awarded fuel material 
from Idaho National Laboratory, submitted the first advanced fission custom combined license application to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and is developing advanced fuel recycling technologies in collaboration with the U.S. Department of Energy and U.S. National Laboratories.  
III.Policy Recommendations
Advanced nuclear reactors will play a critical role in ensuring that the U.S. can unilaterally meet the power needs of AI technology and maintain a reliable grid with affordable energy. Electricity demand is skyrocketing worldwide. In December 2023, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation more than doubled its 9- year electricity demand forecast from the prior year, from 
approximately 220 to approximately 560 gigawatt hours of growth.
[1] This is due in large part to 
high performance computing and artificial intelligence applications at data centers, manufacturing and industrial growth and electrification. Although data centers currently account for just 1 percent of electricity usage globally, this percentage is expected to drastically increase to meet demand.
[2] This has already occurred in some areas – in the Commonwealth of Virginia 
the share is already more than 25 percent. 
Solving thes e power challenges is a national and economic security imperative. If our domestic 
energy supply is insufficient to meet AI infrastructure needs in the U.S., AI developers will likely turn to other countries with affordable and abundant energy sources, some of which may be adversaries of the U.S. A strong AI infrastructure will attract and maintain AI developers, to 
ensure that AI technology aligns with U.S. interests and values. 
This surge in demand faces a stark challenge; scaling existing methods of power cannot deliver 
what America needs. Our country will need an all- of-the-above approach to supply energy in the 


short to medium term. But we cannot let short -term urgency not overshadow unlocking energy 
dominance for decades to come. The existing nuclear sector is an affordable, consistent, reliable 
and zero-emission energy source, qualities critical to the compute sector and to U.S. 
competitiveness. And it represents a small fraction of what nuclear can supply for America’s energy needs.  
Advanced nucl ear energy is uniquely well positioned to address America’s energy reliability and 
security challenges for AI and our industrial base more broadly. Advanced nuclear reactors share the benefits of large light water reactors, without the liabili ties that have capped our ability to 
deploy gigawatt scale nuclear over the past 30 years. Benefits of advanced nuclear, including a smaller footprint and modularity, make it a good fit for AI energy needs and require commensurate investment in scaling across the advanced nuclear supply chain, including workforce and fuel supply.  
Additiona lly, enabling policies for efficient licensing and spent fuel utilization will support cost 
effective commercialization. The regulatory approval process for nuclear energy in the U.S. largely falls to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), but o ther agencies also have 
environmental permitting roles and the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) is central to policies relevant to research and development activities, as well as a national security apparatus that can support civil nuclear energy development.  Examining and, if necessary, reforming the policy roles of each of these agencies is essential as the Trump Administration pursues efforts to enable nuclear adoption. 
To further accelerate and support commercialization of advanced nuclear reactors, the following 
policy changes are needed to allow nuclear power to serve as a critical energy resource for data 
centers and AI innovation. 
Secure a Domestic Fuel Supply  
Advanced nucl ear is poised to deploy rapidly in the U.S. with advancements in next generation 
reactors, but if we are to be successful, we must think beyond just reactor designs and think 
holistically about the supply chain, and in particular advanced reactor fuel supply. The U.S. has relinquished its leadership in fuel production over the past 30 years. Currently, Russia dominates the global nuclear fuel supply chain. The invasion of Ukraine and subsequent ban on Russian enriched uranium imports stressed the need for nuclear fuel security, which expedited many programs currently in process.  
Accelerate HALEU Availability  
Hyperscalers and AI companies have publicly made not just significant commitments to nuclear in general, but have launched deep partnerships with advanced nuclear companies (e.g., Switch and Oklo, Google and Kairos, Amazon and X-Energy, among others). A common thread between these three relationships and almost all non -water cooled advanced nuclear reactors is 
the need for high assay low enriched uranium (HALEU) which is currently not commercially available. The Nuclear Fuel Security Act required the DOE to  establish a High Assay Low 
Enriched Uranium (HALEU) supply chain and develop additional domestic low-enriched uranium (LEU) enrichment capabilities for the light water reactor fleet. DOE made awards in 


late 2024 for HALEU and LEU enrichment and deconversion. The AI Action plan should 
encourage DOE to: 
●execute th e associated contracts and instruct the companies to begin work licensing
and deploying infrastructure immediately;
●ensure commercial production of HALEU in metal and oxide form starts in 2028 at
the latest;
● review and amend planned contract language and milestones to enable speedy
development;
● quickly identify the top enrichment and deconversion companies capable of meeting
the desired timeline and ensure they are adequately supported to reachcommercialization quickly, either through funding or removing administrativebarriers;
●finalize and publish the mechanism and cost structure that it will use to sell theHALEU it acquires back to the industry; and
● ensure appropriate balance between support for expansion of LEU capacity and
buildout of new HALEU capacity.
Unlock Sources of New Material  
Independent of fresh HALEU, the federal government has considerable stockpiles of material, 
including spent research reactor fuel, that could be processed into HALEU or replacement fuels 
for HALEU. The White House and the AI Action plan should include instructing DOE to 
develop and implement programs to process various DOE materials (including spent research reactor fuel) to produce HALEU. This effort should recognize that advanced reactor technologies differ in the purity of fuel they require; some designs, including Oklo, include reactors capable of utilizing fuel with significantly higher impurity levels than typical “fresh HALEU.” The robustness and flexibility of these designs dramatically expands the pool of material that can be transformed from a liab ility into an asset and be utilized as a fuel source. DOE should not rule 
out any plausible source of material without first consulting the industry on its potential use in their reactors.  
The DOE and the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) must work together in a 
unified effort, and it is recommended that DOE and NNSA work closely with industry as these new programs are implemented to ensure that the needs of industry are met in  a timely manner. 
These programs must move at the pace of industry to ensure that advanced nuclear can meet the power demands of AI on their schedules. 
Encourage and Incentivize Nuclear Fuel Recycling 
Spent nuclear fuel in the U.S. is currently stored at every reactor site and statutorily is slated to 
eventually go to a deep geologic repository. Legal challenges, community concerns and statutory limitations have stymied long term disposal solutions for decades. Thanks to U.S. innovation, 
spent nuclear fuel can be recycled by commercial companies and used to power advanced 


reactors while reducing the cost of fuel and the burden on the fuel supply chain. It is being done 
at our national labs today. Idaho National Laboratory is processing spent fuel from Experimental Breeder Reactor II into HALEU. Traditional light- water react ors cannot make ready use of 
recycled fuel. However, fast spectrum reactors, like Oklo’s, offer a unique solution to reduce operating costs, shrink waste volumes from the existing conventional reactor fleet and U.S. surplus materials (which currently impos e costs on taxpayers to manage and dispose of), and 
recover latent nuclear energy in these materials that can provide 24/7 generation capacity. Even more significantly, over the next ten years, industrialization of recycling could reduce fuel costs by as much as 80% for advanced reactors that can leverage recycled fuel. Recycling will not 
fully replace the need for a domestic supply chain of HALEU, but it will enable accelerated deployment of advanced reactors to support a rapid buildout of AI capability.  
As an added be nefit, recycling will begin to address the increasing inventory of commercial 
spent nuclear fuel. With the capacity to reduce the total volume of spent nuclear fuel by more than 80%, recycling represents an opportunity to turn one of our country’s most intractable problems (spent nuclear fuel) into an asset that ensures permanent energy superiority. In addition, recycling may be the quickest way to begin to reduce the annual taxpayer liabilities, on the order of $700 million a year, due to the inability of DOE to pick-up spent nuclear fuel from commercial reactors beginning in 1998.  
The White  House policy on commercial recycling of spent nuclear fuel has been, at best, 
inconsistent over the years. The Biden Administration’s policy, derived from National Security Memorandum 19, is that it does not encourage commercial recycling but does support continued research and development. The antiquated opposition to recycling within the nonproliferation community and within some areas of DOE leans on old arguments that the U.S. should lead by 
example by not recycling, which do not reflect the best practice demonstrated in the rest of the 
world. Many countries, including France, Russia, and Japan, currently recycle or plan to recycle spent nuclear fuel, without creating issues that implicate non -proliferation concerns. 
The AI Ac tion plan should include issuing a policy statement from the White House that 
expresses support for commercial recycling of spent nuclear fuel that does not separate out a pure stream of plutonium. This stance aligns with national energy objective s, strengthens 
nonproliferation efforts, enhances homeland security, and fosters technological innovation while improving government efficiency and reducing costs for taxpayers.  
Create a Whole -of-Government Approach to Nuclear Acceleration 
Unlocking nuc lear energy’s potential to help meet AI energy infrastructure’s growing demand 
requires a whole-of- government approach. Initiatives across the government are already 
underway to advance nuclear energy through regulatory agencies and Congress. The White House should coordinate efforts with them to leverage resources, investments and authority to advance nuclear energy, particularly with respect to powering data centers. The AI Action Plan should address the following: 
Deregulat ion: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) has the tools to accelerate 
deployment of nuclear energy. The NRC is an independent agency responsible for 


administering reactor licensing and renewal, and conducting oversight of such facilities, 
and regulating the management of spent fuel. Importantly, the NRC is in the midst of implementing the ADVANCE Act of 2024
[3], a bill signed into law in July 2024 that 
created new reforms for the agency.[4]  
But there is more to be done, including streamlining the design basis threats (DBT) requirements for security of nuclear material and power operations. The NRC currently applies a single Design Basis Threat (DBT) t o all commercial nuclear power facilities, 
based on its responsibility under the Atomic Energy Act to consider a wide array of adversary capabilities and its applicability to facilities. While this approach historically aligned with large -scale nuclear plants that posed significant offsite risks, emerging 
reactor technologies—such as small, passively safe reactors designed for decentralized power generation, including AI computing infrastructure—do not present the same threat profile. A clarification of NRC  policy to establish a graded DBT framework, calibrated to 
power output, would accelerate nuclear deployments without compromising safety and maintain security effectiveness in line with existing legislation.  
Similarly, to the extent possible, we encourage the White House to work with the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) on policies and dockets that can accelerate bringing new resources online through faster interconnection review and addressing resource adequacy. FERC has several areas through its policies where it can help get energy resources online faster, and we would encourage them to prioritize those. We also encourage the White House and all other relevant agencies including DOE to streamline the permitting process for nuclear power facilities, including by working with state and local governments to do the same. OSTP, the Office of Management and Budget, and 
DOE should collaborate to make budgetary decisions that support advanced nuclear 
acceleration and data centers.  
Financing First of a Kind: The White House should work with DOE, DOD and other 
agencies to effectuate acceleration and support commercialization of advanced nuclear reactors. The federal government has tremendous tools to leverage that would support first of a kind to nth of a kin d deployments of advanced reactors, especially those that 
support data centers. Specifically, the White House and DOE should create a public plan to make eligible new energy sources that support data centers in existing DOE financing programs. The White House should extend these financing tools to fuel supply and recycling facilities necessary for advanced reactor deployment.  
Congress:  The White House should also work with Congress to support additional 
reforms in an ADVANCE Act 2.0 proposal. Reforms could include ideas such as eliminating the required uncontested mandatory hearings, modernizing the Advisory Committee on Reactor Safegu ards, and providing clarity on licensing recycling facilities 
via the Part 70 licensing pathway. In addition, U.S. policy should permit the NRC to apply a lower amount of regulation for commercial licensing of reactors less than 100 Mwe, similar to  NRC’s process for licensing medical therapy and research reactors.  


National Defense/Security: Advanced nuclear reactors can also contribute to the U.S. 
government’s AI infrastructure needs. The White House should work with the 
Department of Defense and other relevant agencies, such as the NNSA and national laboratories, to identify AI infrastructure needs specifically for government use. AI infrastructure includes the hardware required to develop AI technologies, data centers and energy sources.  
The White  House should consider innovative ways to make such investments, including 
consulting private sector stakeholders, to ensure the federal government has access to sufficient AI capabilities.  
IV.Conclusion
Advanced nucl ear reactors must be part of the energy solution to ensure U.S. leadership in AI. 
The technology offers an affordable, consistent, reliable and zero-emission energy source, which are characteristics critical to the compute sector and to U.S. c ompetitiveness. Oklo’s 
recommendations above will help realize advanced nuclear’s benefits as quickly as possible. Failing to address these nuclear energy challenges, and the energy supply shortage more broadly, will put America’s AI goals and national sec urity at risk.   
[1]North American Electric Reliability Corporation. (2023), 2023 Long -Term Reliability Assessment,
https://www.nerc.com/pa/RAPA/ra/Reliability%20Assessments%20DL/NERC_LTRA_2023.pdf .
[2]Between 2024 and 2030, electricity demand for data centers in the United States is expected to increase by about
400 terawatt-hours at a CAGR of about 23 percent. McKinsey & Company, How data centers and the energy sector
can sate AI’s hunger for power (September 17, 2024),  https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/private -capital/our-
insights/how -data-centers-and-the-energy-sector-can-sate-ais-hunger-for-power.
[3]Nuclear Energy Leadership Act, Energy Act of 2020, ADVANCE Act, Nuclear Fuel Security Act.
[4]P.L. 118–67.
[1]Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence, Executive Order (January 23, 2025),
https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential- actions/2025/01/removing- barriers-to-american-leadership -in-artificial-
intelligence/ .


