 Dear Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) 
 National Coordination Office (NCO), National Science Foundation: 
 Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the development of an Artificial 
 Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (“Plan”). This comment is from the Open Source Security 
 Foundation (OpenSSF). The OpenSSF is “a community of software developers, security  
 engineers, and more who are working together to secure open source software for the  
 greater public good” <openssf.org>. We have over 100 members from many different  
 industries. 
 We appreciate the support to avoid requirements that may hamper private sector AI  
 innovation. 
 While AI has a long history, full application of modern AI techniques is relatively new . 
 Significant experimentation and analysis is ongoing, and is enabling rapid innovation.  
 Much of this innovation has been enabled by open source software (OSS) and open 
 models as both of these mechanisms provide for manifold innovations across industry  
 built on top of common best practices and protect users without compromising agility in  
 implementation. We believe it’s important to   not  stymie the development of OSS and  
 open models, but where practical, encourage and accelerate their development. 
 Transparency greatly accelerates the development and improvement of AI techniques, 
 as we’ve seen with the dominance of traditional and modern open source across both 
 open  and  proprietary software stacks. 
 We would encourage the US government, its contractors, and the research it funds to  
 collaborate with, participate in, and contribute directly to OSS. AI is already strongly and 
 critically dependent on a variety of OSS components, such as Pytorch and T ensorFlow,  
 which in turn build on lower-level components like NumPy . This collaboration has been 
 and continues to be fruitful, accelerating industry understanding of models through 
 these common components and creating an environment to continue revolutionizing  
 modern technology with AI.  
 The OpenSSF and its members bring decades of experience in securing the open  
 source supply chain which provides infrastructure components to over 97% of all 
 software, and underpins AI model and application development and deployment. It is 
 critical for national security and competitiveness that developers are educated on open 
 source security best practices and that industry and government responsibly use open 
 source software by contributing to the security of the ecosystem. W e look forward to  
 partnering with the US government to ensure policy and public-private initiatives toward 
 this end succeed. 
 1 


 This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
 business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
 the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
 attribution. 
 Sincerely,  
 The Open Source Security Foundation (OpenSSF) Public Policy Committee (PPC) 
 Sent by David A. Wheeler <dwheeler @ linuxfoundation . org> 
 2 


