March 15, 2025 
Faisal D’Souza 
National Coordination Of ﬁce 
Networking & Information T echnology Research & Development (NITRD) Program 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Submitted by email to 
Re: Request for Information (RFI) on the Development of an Arti ﬁcial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan, Request by NITRD on behalf the Of ﬁce of Science & T echnology Policy in 
the Executive Of ﬁce of the President 
Strengthening America’s AI 
W orkforce 
Executive Summary 
International talent is necessary for U.S. AI dominance. Two-thirds of the top AI 
startups were founded by immigrants and most PhD-level AI talent in the U.S. is 
foreign-born. However, growing wait times in the U.S. immigration system and 
competition for talent threaten the U.S. ability to recruit and retain the AI workforce.  
W e offer a suite of recommendations to cut red tape, make the immigration process 
more efﬁcient, attract and retain AI entrepreneurs and AI researchers, and enhance 
national security. 
1 


1. The Role of Foreign Talent in the AI W orkforce
The United States faces a persistent shortfall of highly-skilled AI professionals needed 
to sustain its leadership in arti ﬁcial intelligence.1 The United States relies heavily on 
high-skilled foreign-born talent to sustain its AI workforce, allowing it to have a much 
more robust AI workforce than what it could achieve relying only on the domestic 
supply. Even with foreign talent, some technical AI occupations appear to face gaps 
in supply, most notably for computer and information research scientists.2 Among 
key technical AI occupations, the employment of computer research scientists has 
the strongest evidence of a persistent labor shortage, as demand has grown faster 
than supply has kept up given the time needed to train a research scientist. From 
2015-2019, employment of computer research scientists grew by 73% while mean 
wages grew by 27%, four times as fast than the national average and faster than 
other STEM and computer occupations like software developers.3 
Foreign-born entrepreneurs play a critical role in driving AI innovation in the United 
States. Most of the country’s leading AI startups have been founded by immigrant 
entrepreneurs, contributing signi ﬁcantly to job creation, technological advancement, 
and economic growth. A CSET study found that of the 50 “most promising” 
U.S.-based AI startups on Forbes’ 2019 “AI 50” list, 66% had an immigrant founder.4
4 Tina Huang, Zachary Arnold, and Remco Zwetsloot, “Most of America’s ‘Most Promising’ AI 
Startups Have Immigrant Founders,” Center for Security and Emerging T echnology (October 
2020). https:/ / doi.org/10.51593/20200065  3 Ibid.  2 Diana Gehlhaus and Ilya Rahkovsky, “U.S. AI W orkforce: Labor Market Dynamics,” Center for 
Security and Emerging T echnology (April 2021). https:/ / doi.org/10.51593/20200086  1Diana Gehlhaus, et al. “U.S. AI W orkforce: Policy Recommendations,” Center for Security and 
Emerging T echnology (October 2021). https:/ / doi.org/10.51593/20200087  
2 


 
Two thirds of the top AI startups have an immigrant founder, with India and 
Israel as leading countries of origin 
 
Source: CSET analysis5 
 
CSET estimates that 72% of these immigrant startup founders ﬁrst came to the 
United States on student visas. However, various restrictive visa rules create barriers 
for foreign-born AI entrepreneurs seeking to establish companies in the U.S. Rules 
also keep many people already here in the United States locked in academia, which 
gets preferential access to visas. Implementing policies to attract and retain AI 
startup founders, and allow researchers the authority to easily commercialize ideas, 
would bolster the U.S. AI ecosystem and ensure continued global competitiveness. 
 
AI talent recruitment typically begins with U.S. education. Foreign-born AI workers 
often enter the U.S. as Bachelors, Masters, or Ph.D. students. Of the students who 
graduated from U.S. STEM PhD programs from 2015 through 2017 , more than half 
were foreign nationals.6 
 
 
 
 
6 Remco Zwetsloot, Jacob Feldgoise, and James Dunham, “Trends in U.S. Intention-to-Stay 
Rates of International Ph.D. Graduates Across Nationality and STEM Fields,” Center for Security 
and Emerging T echnology (April 2020). https:/ / doi.org/10.51593/20200001  5 Ibid.  
3 


Most PhDs awarded by U.S. institutions in computer science go to foreign-born 
graduates 
Source: CSET analysis of NSF Survey of Earned Doctorates.7 
2. Two Forces May Reduce U.S. Ability to Attract AI Talent
A high share of international PhD students in STEM ﬁelds intend to remain in the 
United States after graduation; of 2017 graduates from computer science PhD 
programs, 87 percent indicated that they intend to stay in the United States.8 
Historically, the U.S. has been successful in retaining these high-skilled individuals, 
beneﬁting from their contributions to research, industry, and entrepreneurship; 
according to CSET research conducted on 2017 data: “since 2000, at least 65 percent 
of every year’s graduating class has stayed in the United States.”9 
Nevertheless, stay rates should be higher. But two forces threaten to reduce them. 
U.S. Barriers to Immigration Have Increased 
Current immigration policies pose barriers to retaining and attracting these 
professionals. Many AI workers enter the U.S. as international students in STEM ﬁelds, 
but growing wait times for employment-based green cards, visa restrictions, and 
uncertainty in immigration policy have made it increasingly dif ﬁcult for these highly 
9 Jack Corrigan, James Dunham, and Remco Zwetsloot, "The Long-T erm Stay Rates of 
International STEM PhD Graduates, " Center for Security and Emerging T echnology (April 
2022). https:/ / doi.org/10.51593/20210023  8 Ibid.  7 Ibid.  
4 


trained professionals to stay.10 A CSET survey of AI PhDs found that of respondents 
who left the United States, one-third indicated that immigration constraints were 
highly relevant to their decision to leave.11  
According to SEVIS data, the share of F-1 students requesting another status after 
completing a degree in the U.S. peaked in 2007 and has fallen by over 30%. 
Share of F-1 students requesting another status has fallen from its 2007 peak 
Source: Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS).12 
12 Jeremy Neufeld and Divyansh Kaushik, “International Talent Flows to the United States,” 
written for National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, “International Talent 11 Tina Huang and Zachary Arnold, “Immigration Policy and the Global Competition for AI 
Talent,” Center for Security and Emerging T echnology (June 2020). 
https:/ / doi.org/10.51593/20190024  10 Zachary Arnold, Roxanne Heston, Remco Zwetsloot, and Tina Huang, "Immigration Policy 
and the U.S. AI Sector: A Preliminary Assessment, " Center for Security and Emerging 
T echnology (September 2019). https:/ / doi.org/10.51593/20190009  
5 


Making matters worse, growing backlogs for green cards translate into more time 
spent in legal status that deters entrepreneurship. This means that talented AI 
researchers who we do manage to retain are deterred by restrictions from using their 
talents in ways which will most advance the ﬁeld. Leaving academia, which gets 
preferential access to H-1Bs, poses visa obstacles, as does starting one’s own 
company. Studies have found that the longer visa backlogs grow, the more STEM 
talent ends up “settling for academia” rather than the commercial sector, let alone 
entrepreneurship of their own.13 
Other Countries Are Competing for AI Talent 
Meanwhile, countries such as Canada, the U.K., and China are implementing 
targeted immigration policies to attract AI talent.14 The U.S. risks losing its 
competitive edge as other nations provide streamlined visa pathways, fast-tracked 
permanent residency options, and national AI strategies that prioritize talent 
retention. 
Meanwhile, global competitors, particularly China, are rapidly expanding their STEM 
workforce, producing more AI and STEM PhD graduates than the United States; in 
2025, China is forecasted to nearly double the number of STEM PhDs.15 Without 
targeted immigration reforms and AI workforce investments, the U.S. risks losing top 
AI talent to nations with more favorable immigration policies. Strengthening 
pathways for retaining international STEM PhD graduates is crucial to maintaining 
U.S. leadership in AI innovation. 
3. Policy Recommendations to Strengthen AI W orkforce
T o ensure the U.S. remains the global leader in AI, we recommend the following 
immigration reforms: 
15 Remco Zwetsloot, et. al., “China is Fast Outpacing U.S. STEM PhD Growth,” Center for 
Security and Emerging T echnology (August 2021). https:/ / doi.org/10.51593/20210018  14 Tina Huang and Zachary Arnold, “Immigration Policy and the Global Competition for AI 
Talent,” Center for Security and Emerging T echnology (June 2020). 
https:/ / doi.org/10.51593/20190024  13 Catalina Amuedo-Dorantes and Delia Furtado, “Settling for Academia? H-1B Visas and the 
Career Choices of International Students in the United States,” IZA (August 2016). Programs in the Changing Global Environment” (February 20, 2024). 
https:/ / nap.nationalacademies.org/ resource/27787/Neufeld_and_Kaushik _ITP_Commissioned_
Paper.pdf  
6 


A. Cut red tape and make the immigration process more
efﬁcient
Schedule A . The Schedule A shortage occupation list identi ﬁes occupations for 
which there are not enough U.S. workers and streamlines the labor certi ﬁcation 
process for those occupations. Occupations on the list face shorter processing times, 
less paperwork, and greater certainty and predictability. When the list was ﬁrst 
published in the 1960s it included engineers as well as PhDs in the sciences. 
However, the list has not been updated since the 1990s, and does not contain any 
STEM-related occupations (only nurses and physical therapists). Identifying 
occupations in AI on Schedule A would help prioritize those ﬁelds within the ﬁxed 
pot of employment-based green cards, while cutting down on a lengthy 
bureaucratic labor certiﬁcation process. 
Special handling. Grant permanent labor certi ﬁcation via special handling to 
employers hiring advanced STEM talent in AI. The special handling process lets an 
employer secure labor certiﬁcation by relying on their own competitive recruiting 
process when they found the best candidate was a foreign national of exceptional 
ability.  Because DOL has never deﬁned “exceptional ability in the sciences,” special 
handling currently only applies to universities and then only for teaching hires (not 
research-only faculty) but could be expanded to employers beyond academia who 
are hiring advanced STEM talent working on critical and emerging technologies (and 
for lab research scientists on campuses) like AI. One opportunity for special handling 
is to create a regulatory mechanism by which the National Science Foundation 
identiﬁes key emerging technologies every three years that presumptively qualify for 
National Interest W aiver EB-2 I-140 Petitions. 
Domestic renewal. Foreign AI researchers and engineers working in the U.S on 
temporary visas (like H-1B or O-1A) must interrupt their work at American AI 
companies, labs, and universities if they travel abroad, potentially facing months-long 
delays for visa renewal that disrupt critical research and development projects. 
Authorities under 22 CFR 41.111(b) allow less-disruptive domestic renewals, which 
were the primary means of renewing visas until 2004. A recent domestic renewal 
pilot program sunsetted in April 2024, but could be revived and expanded.  
Premium processing for international entrepreneurs. Immigrant entrepreneurs 
face challenges due to the lack of a suitable visa option, forcing them to rely on visas 
intended for academics and employees of existing companies. This limitation not 
only makes the U.S. less appealing to highly skilled immigrants but also hinders the 
growth of startups and small companies. Adding premium processing to the 
International Entrepreneur Rule program would reduce processing times, 
7 


signi ﬁcantly increase startup founder con ﬁdence in this immigration pathway, and 
lead to higher utilization and expansion of early stage AI startups. 
Deploying AI for visa processing. The administration should ensure that USCIS 
completes the digitization of immigration processing by 2027 on schedule, and pilot 
programs to develop and use AI programs to augment processing capacity of USCIS 
adjudicators and reduce processing times. 
B. Attract and retain AI entrepreneurs and AI researchers
Dual intent for O-1A extraordinary ability. The O-1 visa classi ﬁcation has “quasi-dual 
intent” in both the State Department’s Foreign Affairs Manual and DHS regulations. 
However, many startup founders have learned this is insufﬁcient and have their visa 
applications rejected at American consular posts for being unable to prove they 
don’t have  immigrant intent. The Foreign Affairs Manual and regulations should be 
revised such that the O-1A becomes a status with unequivocal dual intent status. 
Recapture unused green cards. While increasing the number of green cards is 
beyond the scope of the executive branch, the administration can ensure that all of 
the green cards Congress has already authorized get put to use. Over 300,000 green 
cards have gone unused which could be “recaptured” and made available to AI 
talent seeking employment-based green cards.  
O-3 spousal work authorization. Recruiting O-1A aliens of extraordinary ability in the 
AI ﬁeld requires that eligible foreign nationals believe that coming to the United 
States will make sense for themselves and for their families. Ensuring that the 
spouses of O-1As (who commonly are also highly-skilled) will have work authorization 
makes coming to the U.S. a more attractive proposition to a prospective O-1A. 
C. Enhance U.S. national security
Launch Project Paperclip 2.0. The DoD should begin a proactive and targeted talent 
identi ﬁcation and recruitment program for the world’s top AI talent. As the House 
Select Committee on China suggested, the U.S. should “execute a talent strategy” of 
its own.16 For example, this program may determine targets at Chinese AI labs who 
would be valuable to poach for defense purposes. China is actively using talent 
programs like Qiming to recruit foreign talent while the United States mostly relies 
on its universities alone. The U.S. could learn from its own past of running targeted 
recruitment programs, from Project Paperclip, which recruited the German scientists 
16 House Select Committee on the Strategic Competition Between the United States and the 
Chinese Communist Party, Reset, Prevent, Build: A Strategy to Win America's Economic 
Competition with the Chinese Communist Party (W ashington, DC: U.S. Government 
Publishing Of ﬁce, 2023). 
8 


who won the Space Race to the Soviet Scientists Act which denied experts to rogue 
post-Soviet states. The administration can begin by instructing federally funded 
research and development centers to build methodologies for talent identiﬁcation, 
which can then be used to collaborate with the private sector on targeted 
recruitment. 
H-1B2 visas. DoD can fully use its allotment of H-1B2s, a special set-aside of 100 visas 
for researchers working on a DoD cooperative research and development project or a 
coproduction project under a reciprocal government-to-government agreement 
administered by DoD. According to recent data, DoD only uses approximately 30% of 
its H-1B2 allotment. It could immediately work to use remaining visa slots by placing 
eligible targets in eligible AI-related projects using remaining visa slots. 
Export control clarity for immigrant inventors. In order to encourage innovation 
and the commercialization of emerging and critical technologies, the government 
should issue clear guidance about how nonimmigrant researchers and inventors can 
comply with export control rules when they want to commercialize their 
technologies in startups in the United States. At present, many foreign-born 
innovators hesitate to create companies that directly contribute to the defense 
innovation base, because of ambiguities in how export control rules apply to them, 
given their immigration status. New guidance would give clarity, predictability, and 
certainty for immigrant entrepreneurs who have invented a new technology that is 
potentially subject to export control requirements, and specify how “deemed export” 
rules apply to foreign nationals who have created some technology themselves and 
when foreign nationals are allowed to seek an export control license. 
Matthias Oschinski, Center for Security and Emerging T echnology 
Jacob Feldgoise, Center for Security and Emerging T echnology 
Jeremy Neufeld, Institute for Progress 
Sophie Alcorn, Alcorn Immigration Law 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or con ﬁdential information. Document contents may be 
reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution. 
9 


