8605 Santa Monica Blvd PMB 63639 
West Hollywood | CA | 90069-4109 | United States 
opensource.org 
March 15, 2025 
Faisal D'Souza, Technical Coordinator  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) 
National Coordination O ﬃce (NCO) 
Re: Document No. 2025-02305 
Dear Mr. D'Souza: 
The Open Source Initiative (OSI) appreciates the opportunity to provide input on the 
development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan. OSI is a nonpro ﬁt 
organization created in 1998 to steward the Open Source De ﬁnition . The de ﬁnition 
serves as a foundation to maintain the fundamental freedoms of Open Source on 
which the modern software ecosystem is built. Our community represents a wide 
range of stakeholders — from industry and academia to startups and foundations 
— all working to promote the beneﬁts of Open Source Software and connect 
practitioners to policymakers. We believe  Open Source can both strengthen 
security and unleash innovation by ensuring the brightest minds can work together, 
free of barriers. Most recently, OSI undertook the co-development of an Open 
Source AI De ﬁnition  (OSAID), recognizing the need for clarity around what it means 
for an AI system to be truly Open Source. We are pleased to contribute to the AI 
Action Plan to ensure the innovations made possible by Open Source can be 
leveraged to increase U.S. competitiveness and national security.  
The Strengths of Open Source 
Open Source Software underpins almost every aspect of technology we use. Recent 
reports have found that 97 percent of applications contain Open Source Code1 and 
1 Black Duck’s “Open Source Security and Risk Analysis” (OSSRA) report found at: 
https://www.blackduck.com/resources/analyst-reports/open-source-security-risk-analysis/thankyou.html#U
Xoverview 


90 percent of companies use Open Source in some way.2 Open Source became 
ubiquitous because developers, researchers, and business leaders recognized that 
open collaboration is needed to scale the bene ﬁts of technological innovation, 
including the Internet, because it  leads to higher quality, better reliability, greater 
ﬂexibility, and lower costs. Today,  U.S. federal  agencies have also recognized the 
immense bene ﬁts of Open Source Software, incorporating its use  into critical 
infrastructure, including at the Department of Defense and research conducted by 
the National Science Foundation.34   
The Open Source De ﬁnition  that OSI maintains for the community removes barriers 
to learning, using, sharing, and improving software systems. The core criteria of the 
Open Source De ﬁnition have given innovators the freedom to build  and deploy  new 
technologies faster than ever before while maintaining ﬂexibility and control in the 
development process.  
For example, Open Source is critical in key aspects of software development such 
as security, cost, and time. When code is Open Source, more developers are able to 
review and identify security vulnerabilities in a software program and then ﬁx them 
— often in less time and at a lower cost than if  only a few developers had access to 
the code. Many e ﬀorts, such as GitHub’s Secure  Open  Source Fund,5 aim to make 
Open Source even more secure through investments in training and collaborations 
across the software community. Further, researchers have not found evidence that 
models with open weights are any more vulnerable to cybersecurity threats or 
misuse than closed software.6  
6 Kapoor, Sayash, et al. "On the societal impact of open foundation models." arXiv preprint 
arXiv:2403.07918 (2024).  5 See OSI’s blog, “Improving Open Source security with the new GitHub Secure Open Source Fund” at: 
https://opensource.org/blog/improving-open-source-security-with-the-new-github-secure-open-source-fun
d 4 “NSF invests over $26 million in open-source projects” found at: 
https://www.nsf.gov/funding/initiatives/pathways-enable-open-source-ecosystems/updates/nsf-invests-ove
r-26m-open-source-projects3 “DoD Open Source Software FAQ”, Office of the DoD CIO, dated 2021-10-28, found at: 
https://dodcio.defense.gov/open-source-software-faq/#frequently-asked-questions-regarding-opensource-
software-oss-and-the-department-of-defense-dod 2 Github’s 2022 Octoverse Report found at: https://octoverse.github.com/2022/ 
2 


The freedoms of the Open Source De ﬁnition that built the Internet will be 
imperative  to maintain America’s technological competitiveness in the age of AI and 
beyond.  
The Open Source AI De ﬁnition 
In 2022, OSI realized that the traditional de ﬁnition of Open Source was not 
suﬃcient when applied to complex AI systems i.e., you need  more  than just access 
to the source code to understand how these systems work. Everyone — from 
developers and policymakers to researchers and consumers — needed a common 
understanding of “Open Source AI.” The organization began co-developing the ﬁrst 
version of the Open Source AI De ﬁnition , or OSAID, and released it in October 2024 
with more than 20 organizational endorsements . The de ﬁnition is a foundation on 
which additional parameters can be built to address a variety of use cases in the 
public and private sectors. OSI recognizes the deﬁnition may evolve as  discussions  
continue around AI systems.  
The De ﬁnition: What is Open Source AI? 
An Open Source AI is an AI system made available under terms and in a way that 
grants the freedoms to: 
●Use the system for any purpose and without having to ask for permission.
●Study how the system works and inspect its components.
●Modify the system for any purpose, including to change its output.
●Share the system for others to use with or without modi ﬁcations, for any
purpose.
The preferred form of making modi ﬁcations to a machine-learning system must 
include all the elements  below: 
●Data Information : Preferably the original data, or if it is not legally possible,
suﬃciently detailed information about the data used to train  the system  so
that a skilled person can build a substantially equivalent system. Data
Information shall be made available under OSI-approved terms.
●Code: The complete source code used to train and run the system. The code
shall represent the full speci ﬁcation of how the data was processed and
3 


ﬁltered, and how the training was done. Code  shall be made available under 
OSI-approved licenses. 
●Parameters: The model parameters, such as weights or other con ﬁguration
settings. Parameters shall be made available under OSI-approved  terms.
Data Commons in Open Source AI 
In addition to the OSAID, OSI is working to promote data governance as a critical 
component of Open Source AI. OSI released a white paper , “Data Governance in 
Open Source AI: Enabling Responsible and Systematic Access” in partnership with 
Open Futures, a think tank developing new approaches to the open Internet. In the 
white paper, we suggest adopting a data commons approach that recognizes the 
various complexities of data sharing and envisions an Open Source AI ecosystem 
that can include both open and restricted datasets. For example, sharing the 
dataset used to train an AI system allows others to interrogate it and address 
biases and inaccuracies. However, there are many instances where an underlying 
dataset may be restricted or only available through tiered-access for valid reasons 
such as protecting patient privacy, respecting indigenous knowledge, or adhering to 
intellectual property laws. Open Source AI models with these diﬀerent types of 
datasets play an important role in  society and should be  governed by a data 
commons that encourages transparency while respecting the nuances of each. 
Open Source is Imperative in an AI Action Plan 
At a time when AI is evolving rapidly, the U.S. government’s AI Action Plan should 
include Open Source AI as a foundation to ensure as many minds as possible — 
from startups and researchers to major tech ﬁrms — are working to ﬁnd the next 
innovation. Driving collaboration through Open Source can bolster  the 
competitiveness of US companies on the world stage. Competitiveness is enhanced 
because the freedoms of Open Source AI mean frictionless sharing and developing 
across projects so that the best ideas are not siloed, but rather debated and built 
upon. The value of Open Source was highlighted in a 2024 paper where researchers 
found that, without Open Source Software, companies would need to spend an 
4 


estimated 3.5 times more or nearly $9 trillion to build the software that powers 
their businesses.7 
Since the dawn of the Internet, Open Source has been recognized as a building 
block to develop and scale technology. To this end, we recommend that the AI 
Action Plan encourage the development and use of Open Source AI models in both 
the public and private sectors to speed discovery and application of AI in ways that 
beneﬁt public wellbeing. We also invite the U.S. government  to work with  us and 
our partners to further unify the tech community around a de ﬁnition of Open 
Source AI. A common understanding will  remove  confusion and enable more 
innovation.  
OSI appreciates the opportunity to provide input on the U.S. government’s AI  Action  
Plan and welcomes engagement with our community on the issues of Open Source 
and Open Source AI.  
Sincerely,  
Open Source Initiative  
Contact:  Katie Steen-James, Senior U.S. Policy Manager  (
Endorsing Organization 
Apereo Foundation  
9450 SW Gemini Dr PMB 98572 
Beaverton, OR 97008-7105 
www.apereo.org   
Contact:  Patrick Masson, Executive Director (
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or con ﬁdential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan  and associated  documents without 
attribution. 
7 Hoffmann, Manuel, Frank Nagle, and Yanuo Zhou. "The Value of Open Source Software." Harvard 
Business School Working Paper, No. 24-038, January 2024. 
5 


