Artificial Intelligence as an Instrument of National Power* 
AI is becoming the engine that drives all of America’s key instruments of national power.  AI is 
so fundamental that it must be treated as an important part of the bedrock of American power and 
as a cornerstone of America’s arsenal of democracy.  It is therefore critical for the United States 
to ensure that our private sector, supported by providers of Trusted Capital,  maintains  its 
leadership on AI globally, and that government and the private sector work together to ensure 
that this lead is protected.    
This lead on AI, if effectively maintained, can serve as both a critical edge for our nation and its 
allies, and as a deterrent against our adversaries.  It can also lead to the broad deployment and 
use of AI for the betterment of all mankind.  To that end , the United States must ensure that, just 
as we created strong alliances based on geography and military capability after WWII , that we 
now lead the creation of even more powerful alliances around cyber and AI innovation  built on 
joint investment and technological collaboration . 
For well over two decades, Paladin Capital Group (Paladin) has invested in cutting -edge 
technologies to safeguard the United States and our allies.   These investments help ensure that 
the U nited States maintains technological superiority over our adversaries  in order  to protect our 
nation, our people, and our economic system.  In this way, Paladin  defend s the cause of freedom 
and democracy around the world, while also working to produce top tier investment results for 
our limited partners.  
American innovation depends , at its core , on free markets and private capital flows.   Paladin 
firmly believes that private capital can and should defend the very nation and economic system 
that offers us the privilege of investing capital in free markets to create massive innovation.  As a 
result, over the course of more than two decades of investing , Paladin has  put to work a very 
significant amount  of global capital in dual -use innovations, and are raising our sixth fund that 
will put  more  new capital to work , bringing to market new capabilities  for protecting American 
and allied critical infrastructure, defending our nation in the cyber domain, maintaining 
leadership in artificial intelligence (AI) and cyber security globally, providing the men and 
women defending our nation the best technologies available, making sure that our nation’s 
human capital is protected against both online and biological threats , and ensuring that we are 
able to innovate rapidly in all of these domains . 
*This document is submitted on behalf of Paladin Capital Group.  This document is approved for public
dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may
be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.


2 Paladin Shares the Administration’s  Views on AI, Investment Policy, and the Threat Posed 
by American Adversaries Like China.  
Paladin’s approach directly aligns with the President’s Executive Order on Removing Barriers to 
American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence and the President’s America First Investment 
Policy.  Specifically, Paladin shares the White House’s view that it  is the “strength of our free  
markets, world -class research institutions, and entrepreneurial spirit” that has put the United 
States at the forefront of AI innovation globally , and that it will benefit the United States to 
“sustain and enhance America’s gl obal AI dominance to promote human flourishing, economic 
competitiveness, and national security.”1   
Foreign adversaries like China are consistently promoting autocracy and seeking to co -opt our 
cyber infrastructure, whether through hacking, direct investment, or other approaches .  Paladin’s 
approach to investing provides a counterweight to those efforts.  
There is no question that we face a serious national security threat posed by “[c]ertain foreign 
adversaries, including the People’s Republic of China (PRC), [that] systematically direct and 
facilitate investment in United States companies and assets to ob tain cutting -edge technologies, 
intellectual property, and leverage in strategic industries” and that China is “increasingly 
exploiting United States capital to  develop and modernize its military, intelligence, and other 
security apparatuses, which poses s ignificant risk to the United  States homeland and Armed 
Forces of the United States around the world.”2 
When it comes to AI specifically, Paladin agrees with the Administration that America’s “open 
investment environment [] help[s] ensure that artificial intelligence and other emerging 
technologies of the future are built, created, and grown right here in the United States,” and that 
we ought “make the United States the world’s g reatest destination for investment dollars.”3 
Paladin likewise shares the White House’s view that “America’s investment policy is critical to 
our national and economic security.”4  And Paladin has long invested based on the view that 
“[t]he United States has the world’s most attractive assets, in technology and across our 
economy,” that “[e]conomic security is national security,” and that America’s “strong, open 
investment environm ent [] benefits our economy and our people, while enhancing our ability to 
protect the United States from new and evolving threats.”5  
1 The White House,  Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence  §§1-2 (Jan. 23, 2025), 
available online at  <https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential -actions/2025/01/removing -barriers -to-american -
leadership -in-artificial -intelligence/ >. 
2 Id. at §1  
3 Id. at §2  
4 The White House , America First Investment Policy  (Feb. 21, 2025)  §1, available online at 
<https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential -actions/2025/02/america -first-investment -policy/ >. 
5 Id. 


3 Paladin is Working with Other Leading National Security Investors to Commit Publicly to 
Investing in American and Allied Capabilities and Not Investing in Adversary Capabilities  
Private capital and technology must be brought to bear on  the critical national  threats facing  our 
nation , including in the cyber domain, and it is only when industry and  government  come 
together  that can we most effectively defend our nation . This means, on the private sector side, 
that investors and innovators must put their money and effort into building technologies , 
including advanced AI capabilities,  that will defend America and our allies, while also ensuring 
our adversaries cannot get their hands on  these  advanced  technologies.  
That is why, in 2024, Paladin began working with a group of defense , cyber, AI,  and technology -
focused investors across the nation to voluntarily commit to certain core principles reflecting 
these very ideas.  Th e members of this group —which now includes nearly two dozen global 
firms6 that collectively have tens of billions of dollars of assets under management —have all 
publicly indicated that they will invest in technologies and capabilities that that enhance the 
defense and national security interests of the United States and our allies,7 and that they will not 
make investments in companies or founders that would undermine these interests,8 including by 
selling to American adversaries like China.9  Likewise, these investors have also publicly stated 
that they will not invest alongside investors from adversary nations like China.10 
These voluntary commitments come not from any obligation to governments, but from a view 
that free and open societies grounded in economic liberty are the engine that drives technological 
innovation and the expansion of economic opportunities for all peopl e around the globe,11 and 
that investors of private capital should defend these societies and their economic and political 
system against our enemies.   
The commitments also come from the perspective that investors also have a responsibility and 
obligation to invest in a manner that ensures the highest possible returns, while also ensuring that 
our adversaries and criminal enterprises cannot exploit or use these  technolog y investments  
against our nation , including our people, our companies, or our government , nor against our 
allies .12 
And these commitments come from the view that advanced technologies, including AI, are likely 
to be deployed most rapidly and effectively when the technologies are trusted by end users and 
protect those users and their data effectively, as well as when these technologies are protected 
against theft and misuse by adversaries and competitors, particularly when such protections  are 
part of the ir foundational design.  
6 See Trusted Capital Group,  Investment Principles and Commitments , at Signature Block, available online at  
<https://www.paladincapgroup.com/investment -principles -and-commitments/ >. 
7 Id. at Commitment 13.  
8 Id. at Commitment 14.  
9 Id. at Commitments 6 & 7.  
10 Id. at Commitment 9.  
11 Id. at Investment Principles.  
12 Id. 


 4 Likewise, to effectively defend our nation in an increasingly competitive global environment, the 
government must have investors and innovators at the table when confronting critical national 
security threats and identifying the government  and society’s  technological needs.  Actively 
integrating investors and innovators in the government’s work to defend the nation is essential 
because it allows the government and industry to rapidly identify cutting -edge capabilities in the 
private sector to counter these threats, particularly in AI.    
 
Government operations must also fundamentally transform  by embracing greater risk tolerance, 
making significant investments, and forming close partnerships with cutting -edge AI investors 
and innovators.  These partnerships will strengthen our nation and its allies against potential 
adversaries.  
 
Protecting Our Edge in AI is Also Critical to Defending Our Nation and Its Critical  
Infrastructure  
 
The power of AI must also be  used b y the government and the private sector to defend our nation 
and our critical infrastructure .  The recent Salt Typhoon and V olt Typhoon campaigns  by Chinese 
nation -state hackers demonstrate that countries like China are no longer content to simply steal 
intellectual property or engage in targeted surveillance.  Rather, t hey have moved to a new era of 
stealth cyber intrusions that will be fueled by AI technologies to make it even more difficult to 
defend against  and now also seek to deploy widespread collection capabilities and to preposition 
tools in our networks that can disrupt or destroy our natio n’s critical infrastructure.  This effort to 
use our own critical infrastructure against us and to hold such critical infrastructure at risk is a 
fundamental change in our adversaries’ cyber posture.  
 
Likewise, adversaries like  China seek to directly embed their capabilities in U.S. infrastructure, 
from our ports to our telecommunications networks through investment s and the sale of 
technology  to American companies and state and local governments.  
 
We must actively work to stop these investments  by our adversaries , deny them access to 
American and allied technologies, protect our edge in AI , including  by securing our AI systems, 
and deploy advanced  AI capabilities to defend our networks and critical infrastructure.  Private 
sector investors and innovators are working in all of these areas, and the government should 
incentivize the creation and use of best -in-breed AI technology  to protect government systems 
and our critical infrastructure.  
 
Paladin’s AI Policy Recommendations  
 
To achieve these goals, Paladin believes that the AI Action Plan should include provisions that 
ensure the government:  
 
(1) Incentivizes investors and innovators to build and deploy advanced AI capabilities, 
including security technology related to AI, that will defend America and our allies and 
create jobs in the United States, including by providing tax incentives for such advanced 
AI and security innovation.  
 


5 (2)Protects our national security and strengthens cybersecurity by  ensur ing our adversaries
cannot get their hands on critical AI technologies , including by working closely with
investors and innovators and sharing information with industry and investors about the
threats the United States faces, specifically identifying organizations that are tied to
American adversaries, and ensuring that our allies and partners do not undercut American
efforts by selling advanced AI technology to our adversaries.
(3)Ensures that investors and innovators, particularly those that commit to investing in and
building AI capabilities in America’s interest, including security technology related to AI,
are routinely at the table when it comes to understanding the threats facing our nation and
the government’s specific technology needs, so that these investors and innovators can
help identify —or create —the very AI innovations needed to  meet such threats.
(4)Streamlines how government agencies, including those in the defense and intelligence
sectors , purchase advanced AI technology, to ensure that these organizations are more
willing to take risks , make big bets , and partner closely  with investors and innovators that
commit to investing in and building AI capabilities in America’s interest , particularly
those working at the cutting -edge of AI  and building AI-related security technolo gies.
(5)Defends the nation from AI -powered cyber attacks by incentivizing the use of best -in-
breed AI technology to defend government systems and our nation’s critical
infrastructure.


