  
 
   
 
March 14, 2025  
AI Action Plan  
Attn: Faisal D’Souza, NCO 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314 
 
Subject:  Response to Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
Dear Mr. D’Souza: 
At a time when other nations and global powers are accelerating their artificial intelligence (AI) 
investments to keep up with the United States, it is imperative that our country set forth a bold 
and comprehensive initiative to advance AI innovation to maintain our global leadership. The 
Partnership for AI Infrastructure was formed as a response to the urgent need for industry 
collaboration to support the mission of furthering America’s leading edge in AI innovation. A 
coalition of technology leaders Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMD), Arm Ltd. 
(NASDAQ: ARM), Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (NYSE: HPE), and Intel Corporation (NASDAQ: INTC), the Partnership is dedicated to supporting federal research and development, 
critical missions, and national security through world-leading AI infrastructure. This strategic 
partnership aims to ensure that our nation's research laboratories and agencies have the advanced 
computing tools and resources needed to ensure continued American leadership in AI. 
The United States faces a transformative crossroads. By pursuing policies and funding for AI, the 
Trump Administration can reinforce our longstanding technological dominance and ensure that 
America remains the standard-bearer in AI innovation. Conversely, if federal investments and 
policies fall behind, the U.S. risks ceding hard-earned advantages to other nations that are 
investing heavily to gain an edge in AI research, development, and deployment. The Partnership 
for AI Infrastructure and our members are eager to work with the Administration and Congress 
to shape a cohesive AI policy agenda to ensure United States leadership in the global AI race. 
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
The Partnership for AI Infrastructure respectfully submits this letter in response to the Request 
For Information (RFI) from the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) to outline the 
critical need for federal investments in AI research and development (R&D). Targeted 
investments in AI at our national labs and within the Department of Defense (DoD) are necessary to advance our national science, security, and technology objectives. As a coalition 
committed to leveraging AI to accelerate technological breakthroughs, the Partnership 
commends the Administration for seeking to develop an AI Action Plan with the purpose of 


 2 “ensuring the United States is the undeniable leader in AI technology.”1 These efforts will not 
only benefit present-day programs and missions but also solidify our nation’s long-term 
leadership in the face of future scientific and national security challenges.  The Partnership’s 
recommendations for the AI Action plan are as follows:  
1. Promote sustained federal investment in high-performance AI infrastructure.
2. Create durable public-private partnerships to harness private sector innovations to further
advance federal science and national security objectives.
3. Stimulate America’s pool of AI talent and retain experts within the federal workforce.
II. FRAMEWORK FOR A COMPREHENSIVE AI ACTION PLAN
The Trump Administration has a history of developing comprehensive initiatives to supercharge 
our nation’s computing capabilities and drive technological breakthroughs in AI. Understanding 
the need to develop an exascale computing ecosystem, in 2016 the Administration launched the Exascale Computing Project (ECP), a $1.8 billion initiative which has unlocked unprecedented 
breakthroughs in scientific research. A joint effort by the Department of Energy’s (DOE) Office 
of Science and the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA), the ECP led to the development of the world’s most powerful supercomputers.  
Further demonstrating its commitment to advancing our nation’s AI capabilities, i n January 
2019, the Administration signed an Executive Order titled “Maintaining American Leadership in 
Artificial Intelligence,” which made the United States the global vanguard of AI R&D.
2 This 
order established the American AI Initiative, which directed our federal agencies to prioritize AI-
related R&D and provided a blueprint for preserving U.S. leadership in AI.  
With the ECP having concluded in 2024, the time has come to pivot toward an AI initiative of 
equal or greater ambition. Such an initiative must incorporate lessons learned from the ECP , in 
particular, coordination of funding, unifying efforts across federal agencies, leveraging iterative benefits of open, interoperable ecosystems, and streamlining collaboration between government 
and private industry. The AI Action Plan should continue to invest in forward thinking through 
comprehensive initiatives like the ECP to maintain our lead in the global AI race.   
As the nation’s next frontier in AI initiatives, the AI Action Plan must ensure that federal 
agencies receive the necessary resources to achieve national science and security objectives.  The 
strategic objectives for an effective AI Action Plan should therefore include a dedicated funding pathway for AI infrastructure and the building of a talented AI-focused federal workforce. These 
1 The White House. (2025, February).  Public comment invited on Artificial Intelligence Action 
Plan. https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings -statements/2025/02/public -comment-invited-on-artificial-intelligence-
action-plan/ 
2 The White House. (2019, February 11).  Executive Order on Maintaining American Leadership in Artificial 
Intelligence . [Executive Order 13859]. https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/presidential -actions/executive- order-
maintaining -american- leadership -artificial-intelligence/ 


 3 efforts should be coordinated with the private sector, ensuring that both government and industry 
are working together to secure America’s AI future. 
III. GLOBAL AI INVESTMENTS AND STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
The AI Action Plan will be set against the backdrop of a rapidly shifting global AI ecosystem. 
The world’s foremost economic powers have devoted immense financial resources to building 
the infrastructure and regulatory frameworks to compete with the United States on the global AI 
stage. These investments are part of methodical strategies that seek to cultivate broad -based AI 
capabilities to advance economic and national security initiatives.  
Around the world, our global competitors and adversaries are unleashing initiatives and public -
private partnerships to invest heavily in AI as a means of driving innovation, advancing strategic military goals, and securing a competitive economic advantage over the United States. The rise 
and scale of these global initiatives underscores the challenge facing our nation: the race for AI 
dominance is extremely competitive and becoming more so. 
Recent public announcements highlight the growing international momentum on AI 
development. In March of this year, the Chinese government announced plans for a state -backed 
fund that would attract approximately $138 billion over the next two decades specifically to bolster AI, advanced computing, and related technologies. The unveiling of its DeepSeek AI 
model, which rivals domestic models, exemplifies the pace at which China is advancing  and the 
technological breakthroughs made possible through dedicated investments.  
The European Union appears no less determined. Following the AI Action Summit in Paris earlier this year, the EU launched its InvestAI initiative aiming to mobilize $207 billion in AI -
focused investments, including $21 billion allocated for AI gigafactorie s. Similarly, France has 
announced private sector commitments totaling $113 billion in AI investments, demonstrating its 
intent to compete with the U.S. These announcements are clear indications that the EU aims to 
be a formidable player in the global AI race.  
Other countries are similarly prioritizing investments in AI, driven by the recognition that AI 
leadership is a means to economic gains and geopolitical influence. As global competition rapidly increases, foreign investments in AI threaten to outpace Ameri can investments.  
The Administration has been smartly working to leverage the talent, expertise, and investments of the private sector to stay ahead in the AI race and remain the global superpower. The 
announcement of the Stargate Project, a $500 billion investment over the  next decade, is a 
testament to the willingness of private companies to roll up their sleeves to advance our nation's AI capabilities. While private-sector investments like these will serve to ensure America will 
lead the world in commercial AI development, the most complex scientific and defense 
challenges facing our nation will require further development of our federal AI capabilities. The 
Stargate Project will further widen the gap between private and federal AI capabilities, 
underscoring the need for the dedicated investments in federal AI R&D. The AI Action Plan 
must set forth a comprehensive strategy for sustained funding for the advancement of our federal AI capabilities.  


 4 IV. FEDERAL AI INFRASTRUCTURE
America took an early lead in the race for global AI dominance with the development of the 
world’s first exascale computers. The DOE ’s national laboratories operate our nation’s three 
exascale computers. Operational as of 2022, Frontier at the Oak Ridge Leadership Computing Facility in Tennessee became the world’s first exascale supercomputer. In November of 2024, El 
Capitan at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California came online as the world’s 
most powerful supercomputer. And Aurora at the Argonne Leadership Computing Facility in 
Illinois is now fully operational. The DOE national laboratories have long been leaders in 
computational excellence and these exascale computers are pushing the boundaries of 
computational speed and complexity, accelerating breakthroughs in federal scientific and 
national security research.  
The Department of Defense (DoD) is similarly poised to leverage advanced computing to 
enhance military readiness and technological superiority. The High Performance Computing 
Modernization Program (HPCMP) provides powerful computational resources, allowing  the 
DoD to test and refine sophisticated models for weapons, logistics, cybersecurity, and other mission-critical applications. By more tightly integrating AI within the HPCMP, and by ensuring 
that the program has the highest level of leadership and support, the nation can accelerate the 
development and deployment of AI systems crucial to maintaining a strategic edge over our 
adversaries. 
The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2025 authorized the DoD 
to establish or designate an existing program to meet the testing and processing requirements 
necessary for next generation advanced AI capabilities. The AI Action p lan should consider 
leveraging this program to build upon the success of the HPCMP to tackle our nation’s defense challenges. Furthermore, considerations should be made to elevate this program to be under the 
direction of the Secretary of Defense to encourage department-wide efforts to leverage computing power in more applicable missions.  
These and other examples underscore the importance of initiatives dedicated to investing in 
infrastructure for AI. From supercomputers to specialized data centers, infrastructure investments 
form the backbone of American innovation. Moreover, such investme nts have spillover benefits 
for the broader research community, introducing new computational techniques, best practices in 
software development, and universal improvements in performance.  
The AI Action Plan should replicate these comprehensive frameworks that have led to advances in our nation’s AI capabilities at DOE and DoD. Such an initiative will require the 
Administration and Congress to prioritize targeted investments in AI infrastruc ture for federal 
scientific and national security missions. Federal investments in AI infrastructure are especially 
critical as many commercial AI projects cannot address the specialized needs of federal agencies. 
V. AI PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS
The AI Action Plan should seek to leverage the full talent and expertise our nation has to offer 
through the development of public-private partnerships. Rather than seeking to duplicate the 


 5 efforts of the private sector, the federal government should look to harness these innovations. 
Companies that specialize in semiconductor design, super computers, AI software frameworks, 
and other areas of expertise can help drive AI breakthroughs. Levera ging that expertise through 
public-private partnerships leads to improved efficiency, shared costs, and cross -pollination of 
the best ideas from industry scientists and government researchers.  
For instance, integrating commercial AI technologies into U.S. government communications 
networks offers numerous technical benefits that enhance performance, security, and efficiency. 
AI-driven solutions have the potential to dynamically allocate bandwidth to prioritize mission  
critical communications, enhance network security through threat detection and mitigation, optimize resource allocation during high-traffic conditions, enhance network resiliency in the 
event of network failures, improve interoperability between government agencies, and increase 
efficiency and reduce operational costs. The AI Action Plan should seek to unify the nation’s 
brightest minds, most advanced facilities, and industrial strength to further America’s leadership 
in AI. 
To effectively collaborate with private industry, government agencies will need to ensure that 
scientific datasets are available via modern platforms that are both user -friendly and completely 
secure. This will involve upgrading current datasets to be fully compatible with AI systems while 
also establishing scalable infrastructure to continuously capture new scientific insights. By 
upgrading current repositories into unified platforms that integrate robust security protocols, employing modern interfaces to streamline access, and building out an infrastructure capable of 
storing new data, researchers across disciplines and private sector collaborators will be able to 
harness the full potential of government data.  
The government’s unique responsibility to fund long-term research endeavors, manage national 
security, and oversee large-scale scientific infrastructure goes well beyond what private markets alone can support. Public-private partnerships between federal agencies (DOE, DoD) and private 
industry serve as a catalyst for AI breakthroughs, ensuring innovations reach both commercial 
markets and critical defense and scientific applications. Through shared resources, 
complementary expertise, and a unified commitment to addressing large-scale challenges, these 
strategic partnerships will accelerate the pace of AI development, bolster U.S. leadership, and 
reinforce national security. 
As the federal government works to develop meaningful partnerships with private industry, it is 
equally important to cultivate the specialized knowledge and depth of expertise needed to 
manage complex AI deployments from within the government. The AI Actio n Plan should seek 
to develop an internal federal AI workforce capable of evaluating and overseeing the development of sensitive or classified AI systems. This means investing in the growth and 
retention of federal talent to ensure continuity across government programs. In an era of rapid 
technological change, it is essential that federal AI expertise remains robust and capable of 
developing cutting-edge advancements in AI R&D. 


 6 VI. CONCLUSION
The United States stands at a pivotal juncture. Our nation’s ability to harness AI will profoundly 
affect nearly every dimension of national life—from energy resilience and healthcare innovation 
to military deterrence and global competitiveness. America is well positioned to continue leading 
in the global AI race. Still, the U.S. must not be complacent; the global landscape is evolving at a 
staggering pace. The world’s nations are deepening their own AI initiatives and dedicating significant resources to compete with American leadership. 
The Administration and Congress can further America’s AI lead by authorizing and funding 
large-scale AI initiatives, advancing regulations that foster innovation, championing 
collaboration with the private sector, and building a federal AI workforce capable of leveraging 
federal AI investments. Our nation has already demonstrated its capacity to mobilize around 
grand challenges, whether in aviation, space exploration, or the race to harness atomic power. AI 
now stands as the next grand challenge requiring collective resolve. By taking swift and 
determined action, the United States can reaffirm its leadership and advance our science and 
national security objectives.  
The Partnership for AI Infrastructure is ready to collaborate with the Administration, lawmakers, 
and federal agencies to make this vision a reality. With strong commitments, effective public -
private alliances, and strategic policies to attract and retain AI talent, the United States can shape 
the future of AI.  
Sincerely,  
The Partnership For AI Infrastructure 
i
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
conﬁdential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action 
Plan and associated documents without attribution.  


