 
 
1 
 
March 13, 2025  
 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination 
Office (NCO)  
490 L'Enfant Plaza SW  
Suite 8001  
Washington, DC 20024  
 
Re:  Request  for Information on the Development of an AI Action Plan  
 
Dear Acting Director Dohne,  
 
On behalf of the Partnership for Public Service, I am writing to share comments in response to the 
request for information on the development of an artificial intelligence (AI) Action Plan noticed on 
February 6, 2025.  
 
The Partnership is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization committed to building a better government and 
a stronger democracy. Core to our mission is the belief that a merit -based, nonpartisan civil service is 
central to our system of government. Since the P artnership’s founding over two decades ago, we have 
advocated across administrations for changes to federal law, regulations, policies, and programs that 
improve our government’s ability to attract, hire and retain a talented workforce that effectively ser ves 
the public.  
 
As the administration develops its AI Action Plan, we write with recommendations focused on federal AI 
workforce capacity to ensure that the federal government serves as a n example of effective American AI 
leadership. AI can be a powerful tool , and it  is important not to lose sight of the people using and 
enabling its functions in government. Without the appropriate workforce and human capital 
mechanisms in place —including recruitment, hiring, training, development, and retention efforts —the 
federal government won’t be able to fully utilize AI for the promotion of human flourishing, economic 
competitiveness, and national security.  
 
There are scores of best practices related to the federal workforce and human capital management that 
can, and should, be applied in the AI Action Plan. Core focus areas for strengthening the federal AI 
workforce include:  
• Developing federal AI capacity by utiliz ing hiring best practices and available hiring flexibilities;  
• Deploying skills -based hiring  (per E.O. 13932 from the first Trump administration and 
subsequent SMEQA pilots)  and considering  AI-related  job classification s;  
• Creating modernized position descriptions and making them shareable government -wide; and  
• Equipping leaders and supervisors with training on technology principles.  
 
We believe these tenets and specific proposals will help ensure that the federal workforce is equipped 
to deploy AI and advance our nation’s leadership surrounding this technology. Below we further outline 
recommendations for the AI Action Plan.  
 
 
 


 
 
2 
 
 
Develop federal AI capacity by utilizing hiring best  practices and available hiring flexibilities:    
  
The federal government must develop AI workforce capacity and should do so through hiring that 
incorporates learned best practices from recent talent buildups.i Specifically, the federal government 
should hire not just technologists, but data analysts, data scientists, customer experience specialists, 
and other  AI enabling roles. Additionally, to maintain effectiveness and efficiency, it’s critical that 
agencies focus on bringing in early -career employees to build the talent pipeline, not just experts at 
higher grades. We recommend that the AI Action Plan ensure agencies are focused on recruiting a 
variety of grade levels and skillsets – this will allow agencies to fill mission -critical skills gaps while hiring 
for AI talent , enabl ing the federal government to better leverage this emerging technology in the long 
run.  
 
To that end, we recommend the Action Plan require the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and 
the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to determine which government -wide or agency -specific 
hiring authorities best meet the needs of hiring AI talent, devel op a recruiting infrastructure that 
leverages data and technology, hire recruiters or train current staff on how to attract candidates and 
guide them through the hiring process, and apply a project management approach to streamlining 
hiring. These best pra ctices can help overcome a disjointed hiring process and have been used by 
agencies to rapidly grow their workforces in response to various challenges and initiatives.  
 
Deploy skills -based hiring and consider  AI-related job classification s:  
  
Unnecessary degree requirements can create barriers for job seekers, particularly in technology -focused 
occupations. Progress has been made on this front in recent years (e.g., the 2020 executive orderii 
emphasizing skills over degree requirements and the passage of the Chance to Compete Actiii) but 
government can still strengthen its talent pipelines for jobs that do not require a four -year degree —such 
as those in IT, cyber and AI —by demystifying the hiring process and using rigorous technical 
assessments to identify qualified talent, building relationships with community colleges and workforce 
development organizations and by removing barriers to professional development and advancement.iv  
  
The AI Action Plan should direct agency human capital leadership to facilitate the use of technical 
assessments in the hiring process, emphasize that four -year degrees should not be required, and direct 
Chief Human Capital Officers (CHCOs) to ensure that HR specialists understand what alt ernate programs 
and bootcamps confer the required skills absent a formal degree.  
  
Additionally, agencies should be directed to identify which occupational series they will use to fill AI 
roles, as these positions encompass a range of work beyond IT Specialist (2210), Computer Scientist 
(1550), Computer Engineer (0854), and Program Analy st (0343) focused on AI. Depending on the job 
classification, there will be certain hiring flexibilities and pay considerations available to bring those 
candidates on board (e.g. direct hire for certain STEM occupations) that every agency must understand 
and have available to them – all critical elements that must be considered before ever posting a job.  
 
Create position descriptions and make them shareable government -wide:  
  


 
 
3 
 
Rather than using antiquated job titles heavy on government vernacular, the AI Action plan should 
promote attracting prospective candidates by titling jobs in accordance with industry -wide standards. 
Additionally, position descriptions should be modernized  and clearly outline expected responsibilities. 
OPM issued guidance on the skills and competencies needed for federal AI positions in July 2023,v 
offering a list of general and technical competencies that can serve as a starting point for agency job 
analysis efforts – we recommend OPM consistently update this guidance  as competencies evolve with 
technical breakthroughs . To help agencies effectively recruit tech and AI talent, it would be useful to 
develop a set of common job titles and position descriptions, make those shareable government -wide, 
and undertake pooled hiring actions for those roles.  
 
Equip leaders and supervisors with training on technology principles:  
  
We need federal leaders who are equipped to lead AI decision -making effectively and appropriately. 
Regardless of their technical background, leaders should make a concerted effort to learn new 
technologies and see how they can be used in service to the pub lic. Evaluating, implementing, and using 
artificial intelligence tools requires successful collaboration between technical and non -technical 
leaders. The data scientists building AI tools, the Chief Information Officers operating them, the general 
counsels  reviewing their privacy implications, the program managers interpreting their results, plus 
many others, must collaborate to use AI most effectively .vi  
  
Whether agencies are building their own AI systems or acquiring them from outside vendors, they 
should ensure that federal employees have sufficient expertise to evaluate and operate artificial 
intelligence tools. Agencies should also explore ways to devel op technical and non -technical staff 
capacity to understand the risks, benefits and implications of using AI for service delivery. Some current 
efforts recognize this need and aim to assist agencies in developing expertise, such as the AI Training Act  
signed into law in October 2022 which charges OMB with developing a training program to help 
acquisition professionals better understand AI and its potential risks and benefits.vii We recommend the 
AI Action Plan incorporate training for federal leaders and employees to ensure they are equipped to 
make the most of AI.  
 
Conclusion  
 
Federal agencies will play an important role in unlocking America’s AI potential, and at the heart of 
these agencies are the employees who will usher in new AI capabilities for greater mission delivery. 
Attention must be given to federal human capital need s, and any AI Action Plan must include guidance 
reinforcing best practices in the areas of recruiting, hiring and training. We believe this will allow the 
federal government – and our country as a whole – to lead  as AI technology rapidly evolves.  
 
Thank you for the opportunity to share our thoughts and recommendations for the AI Action Plan.  
 
Sincerely,  
 
Jennifer S. Ives  
Vice President, Artificial Intelligence & Modernizing Government  
Partnership for Public Service  
  


 
 
4 
 
 
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
 
i “Rapid Reinforcements: Strategies for Federal Surge Hiring,” Partnership for Public Serve and Democracy Fund, 
October 2020, https://ourpublicservice.org/wp -content/uploads/2020/10/Rapid_Reinforcements_2.pdf  
ii Executive Order 13932 “Modernizing and Reforming the Assessment and Hiring of Federal Job Candidates,” June 
26, 2020, https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2020/07/01/2020 -14337/modernizing -and-reforming -the-
assessment -and-hiring -of-federal -job-candidates  
iii ”Chance to Compete Act of 2024” Public Law No: 118 -188. 
iv Opening Doors, Building Ladders: How Federal Agencies Can Hire and Retain Californians Who Do Not Have a 
Four -year Degree,” Partnership for Public Service, February 202 1, https://ourpublicservice.org/wp -
content/uploads/2021/02/Opening -Doors -Building -Ladders.pdf   
v “The AI in Government Act of 2020 – Artificial Intelligence Competencies,” Office of Personnel Management, July 
2023, https://chcoc.gov/content/ai -government -act-2020 -%E2%80%93 -artificial -intelligence -competencies   
vi “In the Public AI,” Partnership for Public Service, December 2022, https://ourpublicservice.org/publications/in -
the-public -ai/ 
vii “In the Public AI,” Partnership for Public Service, December 2022, https://ourpublicservice.org/publications/in -
the-public -ai/ 


