March 1 5, 2025 
ATTN:  Faisal D’Souza   
National Coordination Office (NCO)   
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD)  
Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP)   
Executive Office of the President   
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314   
Subjec t: Artificial Intelligence Action Plan   
Re: RFI on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan  
Submitted by email to 
Dear Mr. D ’Souza: 
Pathwa y for Patient Health is a mission -driven organization dedicated to enhancing global 
patient health by developing industry partnerships and innovative initiatives that drive excellence across the life science sector.    
The Pa thway AI/Digital Center appreciates the opportunity to submit comments through 
the Request for Information issued by  the Networking and Information Technology 
Research and Development Program (NITRD), National Coordination Office (NCO), and the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) for the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan.    
The be nefits of AI through the products and work of the life science sector are immense, 
including examples such as: the ability of AI to greatly accelerate the discovery and development process  of new cures , enhance clinical trial design and patient recruitment  to 
increase patient safety, provide real- time data and analytics  from AI -enabled medical 
devices , and enable predictive process capabilities to increase  business continuity  and 
product availability .  
It is j ust as important to note that the risks of AI in the life science industry can be 
catastrophic with life threatening impact on mass populations.  AI has  a critical impact on 
the life science  sector and ecosystem, since this sector directly affects human lives and is a 
significant target for criminal intent  and terrorism.  Consequently, this Artificial Intelligence 
Action Plan  must build the essential infrastructure and safeguards to foster rapid  
innovation  securely and ethically.  


Considerations for the Artificial Intelligence Action Plan : 
The P athway AI/Digital Center believes the United States has a pivotal opportunity to 
integrate global excellence into an American policy that will provide the infrastructure for 
individual agencies to implement the appropriate governance of AI in a responsible way.   
Developing the Artificial Intelligence Action Plan by including t he effective progress made 
by federal agencies and other nations is essential, as dismissing the se contributions may 
cause American consumers to question the  credibility of the United States as a leader in 
innovation  and global respectability.   
Plea se consider the following points during the development of your Artificial Intelligence 
Action Plan:  
1. Streaml ine AI Governance and Regulation
•Establish clear regulatory frameworks to guide the development and deployment of
AI technologies such that companies can develop products right -first-time and
reduce regulatory burden.
•Streamline inter -agency and intra -agency regulatory processes to remove
bureaucratic barriers .
•Conduct an assessment o f existing  regulations and procedures that inappropriately
hinder AI innovation and deployment or do not provide enough protection.
•Utilize insights from previous executive orders and existing infrastructure.
•Engage in  dialogue with industry experts throughout the refinement process
of your AI policy.
•Streamline collaboration mechanisms to reduce bureaucratic delays in AIinitiatives.
•The following is critical for companies with products that span the globe and cross -
over the regulatory authority of any single U.S. agency.  Without the following,companies must repeat their work in different ways without any value:
•Harmonize inter -agency and intra -agency regulations and regulatory
frameworks where possible .
•Harmonize the U.S. regulations and regulatory frameworks with existingglobal frameworks where possible.
•Regularly update guidelines /regulations  based on emerging AI risks and
technologies to maintain robustness and establish a system for broadcommunication of emerging AI Risks.
2. Ex cellence in AI Development
•Promote ethical considerations and human- centric design in AI development,
including fairness, transparency, and accountability.  Encourage the integration of
ethical guidelines into AI development processes.
•Implement measures to address biases in AI algorithms and datasetsthrough data -driven approaches.  Require transparency and explainability.


•Define and establish comprehensive safety protocols to govern AI
development and deployment.  Safety includes cybersecurity assurance (e.g.,
criminal activity has been prosecuted for using software in medical devicesto infiltrate hospital systems).
•Base AI policies and practices on rigorous scientific research and data analysis.
•Implement rigorous testing and evaluation protocols to ensure AI systemsperform as intended without causing unintended harm.  Consider “white hat
hacking” to identify vulnerabilities in AI systems.
•Promote the use of evidence -based methodologies in the AI ecosystem.
•Develop a process/system that will capture rapid , global  advancements in AI  so
companies can keep their fingers on the pulse of innovation and remain state -of-
the-art.
•Foster collaboration between agencies, researchers, and the private sector to driveimplementable innovation.
•Encourage public -private partnerships to accelerate AI research and
development.
•Support initiatives that enhance competitive advantages in AI technologiesglobally.
3. Acco untability
•Implement a strict accountability framework that ensures executive leaders areheld personally responsible for the harm their products may cause, demanding the
highest level of accountability for their actions and their company's impact onhuman lives.
•Establish consumer protection policies specific to AI applications  – scope of what is
included and what is excluded. This is critical for the consumer and the insurance
industry, but also, the potential for unreasonable AI -specific lawsuits could thwart
innovation.
4.Upsk ill American Workers and Population in the Age of AI
•Promote workforce development initiatives to ensure the U.S. workforce remainscompetitive in the rapidly evolving global AI landscape.
•Institute training programs to upskill workers for AI -related jobs.
•Develop policies that facilitate the advancement  of workers  whose jobs are  affected
by AI automation.
•Create educational curricula that integrate AI literacy and skills throughout the U.S.
education system .
5.Govern ment Transparency
•Publish the comments that have been submitted for your Request for Information.
•Publish your responses to each of the comments you have received for this Requestfor Information.
•Publish the final Action Plan with a timeline, measurable goals and benchmarks foreach action.


•Conduct transparent, regular assessments to evaluate the effectiveness of the
Artificial Intelligence Action Plan  and disclose the results/outcomes .
•Adapt and refine the strategy based on evaluation outcomes and stakeholderfeedback.
In co nclusion, we appreciate this opportunity to provide input  and may be contacted for 
clarification or further discussion .    
Sincere ly, 
Marla Philli ps  
CEO and President   
Pathway for Patient Health 
www.Pa thway4PH.org  
This do cument is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the Artificial Intelligence Action Plan  and associated documents 
without attribution.   


