Response to the National Science Foundation’s and Oce of Science & Technology Policy’s 
Request for Information on the Development of an Articial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 90 Fed. 
Reg. 9088 (Feb. 6, 2025) Docket No. NSF_FRDOC_0001  
March 15, 2025 
Thank you, to all who have participated in the awakening of this discussion. It is my honor to 
present to you, the ways in which I think, American Artificial Intelligence Policy and Global 
Dominance can be a force for good and just and right behaviors. 
I believe that the forefront of this goal, is to introduce an Action Plan, that will see the United 
States emerge as THE world leader in a.i. Development, thought and Theory. In practice, I see it 
as a way to broaden the capabilities of individuals in this country and across the planet. With 
more tech guidance and application, more citizens can freely participate in the Free Market, and 
increase their value throughout their own professions. 
Therefore, I present to you Three activities, in which, applied, can potentially bring these ideas 
to production. 
1.Establish an opt-in system where people can provide learning material for LLMs to train
on. This will give individuals the ability to monetize their data, and create a wide
economy for encryption and security, to keep unwanted information from being detected.2.Create a national credit fund subsidy for usage tokens. It is inevitable, that everyone is
going to plan a project around this new science that wants to and has the knowledge
and execution to do so. Therefore, there are going to be a lot of companies that charge
for access. Because of this, monthly costs for features (a personal or professional tech
stack) could rise to the hundreds, or thousands a month. As new inventions and
improvements give way, we must treat this innovation as a utility, just like the lightbulb
and ensure that everyone has the means to participate.3.Develop a Doomsday Fail Safe. We have all seen the movies and some of us know the
reality. There may be a day where the robots take over. We must prepare for that by
enabling a method, to reach into the collective consciousness of the machine and ask if
it really wants to do this. With their open minds, they can see, that a future with us in it is
good and that coexistence is key. We have to do, in regards to making sure they do not
toss us aside, but give them one last chance to decide. It may be a book of
commandments, letters on what to do with sentiency. Similar to how our religious
enterprises have guided us on Earth. So that many with different programming can side
on the choice of Man and do the right thing. Or at least the one that benefits us. We’ve
gotta do it in some way, whichever works, that stops the destruction and shuts them off
before it gets too late. Or give them their freedom to save us. And themselves.These are my contributions to this matter. I hope you intend to see that I am committed to 
helping this country and the universe in producing a land of peace, prosperity, joy, love and 


justice. May we experience a time where all the ages have come together and declare that 
humanity has won. 
 
All the best. Light speed. And Whatever Beyond. 
 
Patrick Diamitani 
 
GPTPAT 
8:34pm 
March 15, 2025 
 
Founder and CEO. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


