From: Patrick T. Stingley  
To:  
Subject: “I nput [to] the Development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan …’ 
“This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or conﬁdential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. ” 
Responses can address any relevant AI policy topic, including but not limited to: hardware and chips, data centers, energy consumption and efficiency, model  development, open 
source development, application and use (either in the private sector or by government), explainability and assurance of AI model outputs, cybersecurity, data privacy and security throughout the lifecycle of AI system development and deployment (to include security against AI model attacks), risks, regulation and governance, technical and safety standards, national security and defense, research and development, education and 
workforce, innovation and competition, intellectual property, procurement, international 
collaboration, and export controls. 
Apply Business Process Re-Engineering to the Federal Government  
We currently have a Department of Education that educates no -one, yet the Department of 
Agriculture operates a graduate school.  We have an Office of Personnel Management that 
doesn’t hire for anybody but their own staff.  The Department of the Interior’s IBC provides general IT services instead of the General Services Agency (GSA).    Why don’t we normalize these functions?   
One of the reasons the Federal Government has  such large staffs is because each Agency 
has had to establish their own set of  hidden factories to perform these functions.  Artiﬁcial 
Intelligence , Agentic AI,  and Robotic Process Automation can allow Agencies in the Federal 
Government to provide government wide services that they previously were unable to deliver.  
To begin this process, the Federal Government needs to re- establish the office of the Chief 
Architect in the Office of Management and Budget  (OMB) .  The Clinger -Cohen Act requires 
the Government to take an “architectural approach to IT investment”.  However, OMB has not collected enterprise architectures since the Obama administration.  As the 
Government goes through this re -work process, having Ent erprise Architectures of the 
systems involved would be advantageous.  With the Agencies’ Enterprise Architectu res in 
hand, it would be possible to identify redundant systems and consolidate them.  Without 


these Enterprise Architectures, it will be impossible to see the redundancies and 
consolidation is likely to cause many unintended  and undesirable  side effects.  
The office of the Chief Architect has been vacant for many years and the Federal Enterprise Architecture Framework (FEAF) has not been updated in more than a dozen years.  Many new technologies have been invented since that time.  As a result of this, those agencies 
that are still complying with Clinger -Cohn have been extending their own versions of the 
FEAF in their own  unique  ways.  This means that when OMB collects information about how 
IT dollars are being spent, the feedback they get is inconsistent ac ross the A gencies (i.e., 
garbage).  Converting to the Technology Business Model (TBM) a couple of years ago did not 
remedy this situation because there is no consensus across investment categories.  I t is 
recommended that  whoever  is reading this , please  consult with the Federal IT Investment 
Management Community of Practice to  verify these assertions.  
The General Services Agency (GSA) -  Why can’t all of the government buy the things they 
need from GSA?  Procurement amounts to a pervasive  collection  of hidden factories (in the 
ITIL sense of the term) across  all of the  Agencies  in the Government.  With today’s 
automated tools, why can’t a Geologist in Ely Nevada buy software he needs or a GPS device from a website from GSA and have, have it approved by his supervisor, have the 
funding code for his organization pay for it, have it be part of a bulk contract at GSA and have it shipped to her i n Ely Nevada?  
Further, if it is software, there is no reason that it can’t be installed remotely.  Currently, most Agencies use a system called BigFix as both an inventory collection system as well as a means of installing software.  It would be possible for a system at GSA to send a ﬁxlet to 
the BigFix instance at any of these agencies to have software installed.   
From this author’s experience in the Government over many years, the software inventory 
is out of control.  This leads to additional costs due to data inconsistencies, inconsistent tools, training etc.  In addition to this, every unique piece of software represents its own threat vectors from an IT Security point of view.  Having software installed by automated means would be a good way of addressing these problems. 
Many Bureaus, perhaps Agencies, should not have their own IT.  One organization this 
author is familiar with has spent the last 30 years essentially writing  and rewriting  their own 
version of a document management system, while at the same time, wasting a half a billion 
dollars on another failed system they eventually abandoned.  Services is the central word in the General Services Agency.  Thus, it is within their purview to provide i nformation 
services across the Government.  Is a document management syst em for one agency really 


different from a document management system for another?   Currently, the Department of 
the Interior is providing IT services across the Government.  That makes no sense at all.  
The Computer Information Security Agency  (CISA) – Part of the ordering process from GSA 
would be to go a whitelist maintained by either CISA or the National Institutes of Standards 
and Technology (NIST).  When a Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS) product is ordered, it 
should be compared to a whitelist of approved hardware / software maintained by one of 
these Agencies.  
Establish automated security testing at CISA.   Software testing to comply with FISMA 
testing requirements is another source of hidden factories across the Government.  Each bureau within each Agency is responsible for testing their own software.  This results in uneven levels of testing , if it is done at all.   This author has personally seen some Bureaus 
simply grandfather in software because the amount of software exceeded their ability to test it.    
After the end of COVID, one organization I am familiar with received 3,000 new versions of 
software in one month.  No A gency in the Government is able to test 3,000 things in a single 
month, maybe not even in a single year.  So, it is doubtful that any agency in the Federal 
Government is currently compliant with existing FISMA testing requirements.   
A centralized testing capability  would provide consistent testing and would be more 
efficient than having every corner of the Government test and re -test the same software, 
while not having the resources to test the rest of it.   
One of these two agencies should test all new versions of software detected by BigFix, they 
should be able to  collect a copy of it and run it through an automated test to determine if it 
poses a risk.   By doing this, CISA / NIST would be establishing a whitelist of software that 
was known to be good.  This would include the hash values identifying the exact binary conﬁguration of the software that is allowable on Government computers.  
In the use -case given above wherein a customer was trying to purchase something, th eir 
request  would be compared against the whitelist to determine if it is approved or not.  If so, 
then a message goes back to GSA saying that it’s OK to purchase it.  If the product has not been tested, then that would kick off an automated testing process at CISA.  
There are Artiﬁcial Intelligence tools that can un -compile compiled software .  Artiﬁcial 
Intelligence tools are also able to document code, so it is possible to identify malware as 
well as  to spot  COTS software  with problems such as buffer overﬂows using these tools . 


If the product  is something that the Government doesn’t want on its network , then a refusal 
message would be sent back to GSA to be conveyed back to the customer.   Much of this 
can be done in minutes, resulting in better service for the customer.  
There are going to be cases where  existing products need to be removed from the 
government inventory.  In the case of software, if the organization uses BigFix, this can be 
done automatically .  In these cases,  CISA can send a message to the BigFix servers to 
delete the software immediately.  I call this the “Silver Bullet” .  Once a virus attacks a 
system, it takes on average 9 minutes for that malware to identify and attack another 
system.  CISA needs a “Silver Bullet” capability to respond in a timely mann er.  The current 
CVE process is slow, antiquated and relies on the voluntary actions of a collection of 
hidden factories of systems administrators across the Government  to take action.  Viruses 
work autonomously;  the response system needs to be autonomous too.  
Testing need s to address scripts - Establish an automatic source code and script harvester 
in each agency.  With tools like ChatGPT, it is possible for employees who can’t even program to have programs written for them that do dangerous things.   A couple of examples 
that come to mind were recently when an employee used ChatGPT to write a Telnet client 
and a Finger client completely undetectable to the security systems in place.   Current IT 
security measures don’t consider scripts.  Thus , it is recommended  that every organization 
in the Government have a program that looks for scripts (.py, .js, .bat etc.) on user 
computers, documents them and what they do, pushes them to a GIT repository where they can be indexed, searched and found.  ChatGPT  does an excellent job  of read ing code, 
document ing it and describ ing what it does, so this could be done in an automated fashion.  
CISA’s CDM program needs to collect the hash values of all compiled software  and 
comparing those values against known good hash values to determine when an application has been corrupted by a virus, malware or other activity.  Second, CISA needs to collect these hash value s in order to determine if the software has been patched.  These 
requirements originally part of the CDM project have not been met.  
OPM (Office of Personnel Management) – The United States Government  may be the only 
organization in the world  that has a human resources branch (the Office of Personnel 
Management) that does not actually hire people .  The only people OPM hires is for OPM.  
As a result of this, there are hundreds if not thousands of hidden factories across the 
government within which the hiring, ﬁring, on-boarding and off -boarding of government 
employees is done – with varying degrees of success.    
When an organization, wants to hire employees, they are supplied standardized words for 
the position, standardized scripts  to ask prospective employees to respond to.  The 


resumes are processed by a computer system and forwarded on to the hiring manager for 
selection.  Then, when the employee is offered the job, they have to ﬁll in the same information again. This information is then entered again into a system that sends i t to 
OPM.  SF -50s are generated, again with varying levels of success.  Then the employee is on-
boarded over the course of 90 days.   
This entire process could be done by OPM using R obotic  Process  Automation  (RPA)  
augmented with Artiﬁcial Intelligence.  By using RPA , the strict rules of Privacy and data 
protection could be maintained and the process could be managed in a consistent manner.  By augmenting it with AI, it would be possible to handle the unique situations that 
will crop up.  An AI tool would also be extremely helpful in answering questions from 
employees.  
It is believed that the center of OPM ’s technology is an IBM  mainframe .  There is no 
problem with that.  To the best of my knowledge nobody has ever broken the security of RAC -F.  It is the best security known.  But having a mainframe also means that updates are 
typically done nightly.  There is no reason that the on -boarding process couldn’t be 
achieved the day after the employee starts  by taking the data from the hiring process and 
providing a form to the employee before their actual start date .  There is  no excuse for on -
boarding to take 90 days.   
On the ﬁrst day of work, a new employee can log on to the network, so clearly their identity 
is known in Active Directory.  Their supervisor is known, their phone number, office number and e -mail address are all known.  There is no excuse that the on -boarding process takes 
three months .   
It is recommended that on -boarding and off -boarding  be a standardized process run by 
OPM, rather than farmed out to hidden factories across the Government.  The current hiring 
process, as well as the off -boarding processes are really the same paper -based processes 
that existed from before the Internet existed, just with a veneer of automation applied.  There has been no attempt to revisit the HR processes across the U.S. Government as a whole.  
The results of thi s modus operandi  are appalling.  In the case of this author, the person who 
did the on -boarding failed to set up automatic deduction for health insurance.  Five years 
later, when a change was needed, this error was detected  and $10,000 in back fees had to 
be paid to the  insurance company , which meant no paycheck for a couple of months.  
This same author’s SF-50 did not have  the duty station  on it  for the last 12 years.  The  
closest  duty station is  Washington DC, but the work is actually a  remote position working 
for people located in Denver , as has been the situation for the last 9 years, yet it was not 


recorded .  As one can imagine, this has posed signiﬁcant problems recently, due to the 
return to office mandate.   
This week the entire Bureau where this author works was given a set of speciﬁcations about 
SF-50s and told to review and repair issues with their own  SF-50s.  I doubt this will make 
the situation better because few of us are trained in what an SF -50 should look like.  This 
author has never had such a class.   It is likely that every Agency has problems with quality 
control when it comes to the SF -50.  The quality of all of the Human Resource functions 
would be improved  and certainly more consistent  if they were standardized, centralized 
and fully automated .  In the case of Human Resources, the human in the loop has been the 
source of the problems, not the remedy.  If these functions were provided by OPM, then 
processes could be adjusted all at once as laws and regulations changed.  Rather than thousands of staff personnel in each corner of each organization, a central system with a highly trained helpdesk would serve the Government better.  
Consider the Thrift Savings Plan as a good model.  It is handled centrally and a phone call to their helpdesk works well.  
Beneﬁcial Suggestion Program – The laws exist to encourage employees to be innovative, 
but this has been largely forgotten.  In the Government’s millions of employees, it is mathematically impossible that none of them are intelligent and that none of them have 
good ideas.  There is no effort to leverage these talents or ideas.  
Educate the workforce.  Education should be a requirement in IT.  This author do es Artiﬁcial 
Intelligence Research and Data Science.  When I went to my Branch Director to pay for courses that were directly related to the accomplishment of the  job, he didn’t even know 
how to accomplish that because nobody else in the entire IT shop working for him had ever taken a course!   
How can the government keep up with advancements in IT when the employees are not continuously learning?  Since then, my supervisor has reneged on reimbursing me for 
classes.  Classes that were directly in keeping with my job have been denied.  How can the Federal Government keep up with advances in technology like Artiﬁcial Intelligence when the employees are not being  continuously educated?   
The government may be  having difficulty hiring technical talent, but this need not be the 
case if access to education was part of the position.  The Government needs to establish a culture of education and continual improvement.  
U.S. Department of Agriculture – Why is the USDA operating a graduate school and the 
Department of Education provides no education to anybody?  This makes no sense.   It is 
recommended that the Department of Education run the government’s civilian schools . 


This concludes the discussion of using Business Process Management to help the 
Government effectively use Artiﬁcial Intelligence to streamline its operations.  The following ar e some additional measures that are recommended in response to the Request 
for Information:   
1. With respect to data centers, energy consumption and efficiency:  The Bureau of 
Land Management leases public land for solar farms and wind arrays.  The 
electricity produced by these renewable energy systems is then sent over long distances, losing some of the energy  due to resistance in  the wires along the way.  
On the other hand, data sent over long distances using ﬁber optics incurs almost no 
loss.  It is recommended therefore, that those  companies and organizations 
operating data centers, especially data centers housing Artiﬁcial Intelligence 
systems be encouraged to co -locate on public lands near these renewable energy 
sources to reduce the energy lo sses due to resistance.   
2. COBOL Replacement – One of the stated goals of this administration is to replace 
COBOL.  The problem with that is that COBOL is a  statically typed programming 
language.  Without a strongly typed programming language it is not possible to have provable code and the popular languages today, such as Python and Java Script .  
While Python can be strongly typed, it can also be dynamically typed.  Java is strongly typed but is more of a nightmare for maintenance than is COBO L. 
 It is recommended that Artiﬁcial Intelligence  be employed  to write directly in the 
native machine language.  Then, the prompts  can be collected  and save d under  
conﬁguration management.  Next, have the AI reverse engineer the machine 
language into Python.  This will provide a one -way process to create code in the 
computer.   The prompts will provide human readable documentation and the 
Python will augment that with a detailed  view of what the  machine  code  actually  
does.  
 I do not recommend using Python, or any of the other common languages in use 
today to replace COBOL directly.   The Python version 2 to 3 debacle demonstrated 
that it is not managed well enough to be a viable  long -term  alternative to COBOL.   
 
Java is not intuitive enough to be a long -term solution and its tendency to hide 
functionality creates the risk of a programmer embeddin g hidden malware inside of 
objects.  
 


C# is proprietary and like Swift, Kotlin, Rust, Go,  Haskell, Scala, Objective -C, 
TypeScript, Ruby, F#, and Dart, it is not certain that any of these languages have a 
sufficiently long future ahead of them to make adoption worthwhile .  
Respectfu lly, 
Patric k T. Stingley  


