P. E. Roege  1 6-Mar -25Response to Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan, National Science Foundation  NSF_FRDOC_0001 -3479 , dated 02/06/2025  
Title: Multi-domain Collaboration Supporting Evolution of AI-Energy Nexus  
Submitter:  Paul E. Roege, Creative Erg, LLC  
Recommendation: establish a public/private collaboration  forum to enable advancement of AI 
capabilities in conjunction with  energy system transformation . The goal would be  to inform 
policy adjustments  (and other actions) that accommodate rapid capacity growth, technology 
integration, efficiency and resilience.  In particular, new processes and policies will be needed 
support diversification and decentralization of energy system technologies and ownership ; 
flexible transactional mechanisms involving new market dynamics ; and regulatory processes that 
provide for diverse input and informed consent.  
Rationale:  the rapid growth of Artificial Intelligence sophistication and use corresponds closely 
and interactively with energy transformation . In particular, projected electrical power demand 
growth associated with AI computing needs will substantially accelerate trends in energy growth 
and electrification.  At the same time, energy system technologies and operational processes are 
evolving rapidly – from centralized energy networks dominated by fossil fuel ed sources to 
systems characterized by greater diversity, flexibility, decentralization, and intelligence. 
Moreover, new energy systems (as well as other processes) may achieve substantial eff iciency 
and resilience advantages  through increasing levels of intelligent control.   
Illustration:  the electrical power system is experiencing a shift in fundamental behaviors as 
traditionally dominant synchronous electromechanical equipment (e.g., generators and motors) 
are displaced by power electronic (digital) technologies , such as power inverters and variable 
speed motor drives associated with renewable generation, heating and cooling, and large 
industrial processes .  By virtue of increasingly powerful computing capabilities, t hese digital 
power systems provide agile dynamic behaviors – though they  lack inherently stabilizing physics 
principles of legacy technologies .  This digitization  phenomenon already has i mpacted grid 
stability in areas with relatively high concentrations of inverter -based energy sources (e.g., wind 
and solar), especially in the absence of local energy storage to support stabilizing inputs.  The 
anticipated proliferation o f computational power loads  (data center s) with characteristically 
dynamic demand and digital power converters  will increase and accelerate this shift in dynamic 
grid characteristics . Meanwhile, an influx of large (stable) generating systems  and variations in 
power distribution, storage, and control could provide requisite stabilizing influence if design 
and operational concepts advance rapidly.   Successful system transformation hinges upon 
examination of alternative operational scenarios , technical analysis, and development of enabling 
business models; all likely to require polic y adjustments.  
Key elements:  the proposed collaboration structure should include  public/private  membership, 
resources, processes, and communication pathways to provide for:  


P. E. Roege  2 6-Mar -25•trending and analysis of  market processes and energy/operational technology interactions and
respective  impacts to resilience (security, stability, sustainability, and welfare);
•multi-domain (technology, business, economic, social) analysis to support evolution of
technology standards, business rules, and policy/regulatory measures;
•communications to disseminate insights and stakeholder interaction to maximize  value and
achieve informed consent.
Distribution:  This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  


