1600  Wilson  Boulevard,  Suite  203 • Arlington,  VA 22209  • Phone:  • Fax:
http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org • email:
MARCH 14, 2025  
BEFORE THE  
NETWORKING AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND  
DEVELOPMENT NATIONAL COORDINATION OFFICE AND  
WHITE HOUSE OFFICE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY  
COMMENTS ON AI ACTION PLAN  
Reference: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan 
per February 6, 2025 , Federal Register  notice 
Name of Filer:  Paul Steidler, S enior Fellow, Lexington Institute  
Public Dissemination Statement: This document is approved for public dissemination. The 
document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may 
be reused by the government in developin g the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  
Comments:  The Trump Administration’s Request for Information on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan, as discussed on page 9088 of the February 6, 2025 
Federal R egister, is an important and wise action.  
The administration has already taken several strong and appropriate steps on AI policy. In 
particular, the President’s January 23 executive order, which launched this public commentary 
process while removing burd ensome requirements for companies developing and deploying AI is 
essential for ensuring the U.S. remains the world’s global leader on AI, while also removing 
unnecessary government control over the development of AI.  
U.S. AI policy should fully align with Vice President J.D. Vance ’s remarks  to world leaders and 
tech luminaries at the February 11, 2025 AI Action Summit in Paris. This is a comprehensive and 
energizing roadmap to ensure that the U.S. maintains global AI dominance and that the world,  
and all Americans, benefit from it.  
America will prosper and be stronger country if AI is systematically used to identify and 
eliminate wasteful and unnecessary federal government expenditures. Indeed, AI must have a 
central role in getting America’s fisca l house in order.  


2 
An April 2024 report  from the U.S. Government Accountability Office found that the federal 
government loses $233 billion to $521 billion annually due to fraud alone. The Congressional 
Budget Office projects the Fiscal Year 2025 budget deficit will be $1.9 trillion.  
The House Budget Committee, following a June 2025 roundtable , said, “AI could be used within 
the Federal Government to revolutionize audits, catch improper payments, streamline 
entitlements, and bolster national security. The technology is currently bei ng used in more than 
700 instances in the federal government.”  
It is one thing to use AI in the federal government. It is another to strategically deploy it most 
effectively and to document that it is making government more efficient for those who pay for  
government, the American people.  
As an initial step, the President should issue an executive order asking each Cabinet department 
to identify and report on a minimum of two significant ways in which AI has, or in the coming 
six months will, reduce costs  and improve efficiencies. The findings should be due September 
30, 2025, the end of the fiscal year. The reports should be publicly available, to other government 
agencies, including Congress, the media, and the American people.  
The frequency and conten t of such reports should be assessed by policymakers. Quarterly or 
even more periodic reports should also be considered.  
Thank you for your attention to these matters. 
Respectfully,  
/s/Paul F. Steidler  
Paul F. Steidler  
Senior Fellow – Lexington Instit ute 
 (office) 
 (mobile) 


