1  AI ACTION PLAN – PERMION INC – PUBLIC RESPONSE  Response to AI Action Plan, US Leadership 
To: Faisal D'Souza, NCO  
 Office of Science and Technology Policy, 
 2415 Eisenhower Avenue, 
 Alexandria, VA 22314 From: Arun K. Majumdar and John F. Sowa  
Permion Inc., 
800 Corporate Dr., Suite 301, 
Stafford, VA 22554 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business- proprietary 
or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
About Permion 
Permion Inc. has developed technology that supports a novel neurosymbolic AI processor enabling 
competitive foundational AI models, integrating parallel, distributed, Agentic, neural, and logical capabilities.  The company offers a full-stack approach to AI, coding analyzers, coding tools, and industry-standard compliance to popular developer environments as well as ISO Standards (ISO 24707) Common Logic.  Our flagship product, the XVM™ (X-Machines Virtual Machine), also offers lower size, weight and power, higher efficiency options for advanced AI application development.  We have built an application to illustrate the use of XVM™ as the Digital Subject Matter Expert (DSME™) tool for business intelligence analysis.  The 
company plans to create AI chips in the future, based on the design of its neurosymbolic AI Instructure Set 
Architecture (ISA).  More about Permion is at
 https://permion.ai/   
Dr John F., Sowa and Arun K. Majumdar have collaborated for over two decades, developed technologies and standards for the AI community, and published in multiple peer-reviewed journals.  Our view for  AI at 
human level cognitive processing is a statement that there is a need 
“for an internal virtual reality as 
the foundation for the perception, action, and cognition of an embodied mind”   quoted from 
the paper by Sowa “The Virtual Reality of the Mind”1.   
Response  
Permion Inc. appreciates the opportunity to contribute to the public discourse for the Office of Science and Technology Policy to provide input to the AI Action Plan and to empower the supremacy of US Leadership in 
1 https://www.jfsowa.com/pubs/vrmind.pdf  


2 AI ACTION PLAN – PERMION INC – PUBLIC RESPONSE  AI technological superiority.  We recommend  that the AI frontier address these key foundations :  
Knowledge Representation, the use of Quantum approaches, and formalized engineering methods 
adapted for use in guaranteeing trustworthy, verifiable, certifiable, AI processing and AI models .   For 
a view on the quantum perspective, the paper by Majumdar and Sowa2 combines general probabilistic 
model (of Quantum Theory) with formal logical knowledge representation (Conceptual Graphs, ISO 24707) 
embedding formal methods within error bounds of confidence within cognitive models.   ChatGPT and Large Language Models (LLM) are auto-regressive probabilistic models and require policies to support the use and reference of ontology and knowledge representation to codify the informational physics, causality capabilities, provability in inference, of AI models and processes to address the ability to solve constraints and problems of planning and logistics.   The point is emphasized by Sowa in a popular YouTube video
3. 
We recommend the AI Action Plan expand on leveraging not only an AI talent network but also related 
multidisciplinary communities in advanced mathematics, logic, expertise in ISO standards, NIST, and encourage practitioners in physics, both the hard and soft engineering disciplines, to work with AI
.   In 
our viewpoint, we recommend that our contributions towards policies be further carefully calibrated and 
targeted, effectively aligning multiple communities, and assure the protections of the various communities and their interests as they advance the proposition for America to serve as a frontier leader in AI.    
Based on the topics identified in the RFI, we provide responses below in Table-1 to address the elements. 
Following this response, we offer seven recommendations that we see as cross-cutting to the big picture of American leadership in AI technological superiority, following  and appended as Table-2 and Table-3. 
Table-1:  Permion Inc. Response Categories 
Hardware and chips AI workloads require radical re-design by policies that incentivize 
technological superiority over business scaling drivers. 
Data centers Policies to empower AI supply innovation for AI task-specific data 
centers that drive optimized value-chains to contribute to an AI 
ecosystems policy over commoditized limited centralized capabilities 
Energy consumption and 
efficiency AI requires size, weight and power (SWaP) policies .  We recommend a 
metric of AI model size and power relative to information theoretic, 
e.g.,, such as entropy coupling metrics (between answers and
reference data).
Model development  Models require policies that enforce proof -of-integrity, compliance to 
measures of security, resilience, and capabilities to incentivize 
adoption.  Generative AI like all probabilistic models must have criteria 
for evaluating the precision of outputs and results within designated 
error bounds for task specific problem solving.  
Open -source development, AI in the open -source community requires policies to define and 
2 https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6927518  Quantum Cognition  
3 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t7wZbbISdyA  - Without Ontology, LLMs are clueless  


3 AI ACTION PLAN – PERMION INC – PUBLIC RESPONSE  application, and use (either in 
the private sector or by 
government) create support frameworks that can curate, validate and authenticate 
provenance of data sources while mitigating the risk of disinformation 
or fake data. 
Explainability and assurance of 
AI model outputs We recommend  standard  publication methods for producing 
measurabl e, repeatable, reproducible, results on  the confidence of 
both explanations as well as measurable assurance of AI through 
community developed standards and peer-reviews. 
Cybersecurity  Counter -AI is a significant new domain of cybersecurity concerns as AI 
operations on human-AI interactions, AI on AI interactions, and AI on 
data or machine processes as well as AI in the loop of conventional 
offensive/defensive cyber are largely absent in all current policy, 
regulatory or compliance strategies. 
Data privacy and security 
throughout the lifecycle of AI 
system development and 
deployment (to include security 
against AI model attacks) A national level effort to utilize emerging tools and consensus based 
approaches with metrics and measurements, with confidence, 
confidentiality, and integrity is needed – for example, leveraging 
Blockchain technology to support AI, leveraging behavior profiling to 
support AI model integrity, leveraging the concepts, techniques, 
tactics and procedures of companies like Rapidfort (Ironbank) or 
Chainguard or others in providing model and data risk reduction 
sources versus honor-system based approaches (such as “model 
cards” used by an unpoliced community for model descriptors). 
Risks, regulation, and 
governance We recommend the NIST recommendations for Zero- Trust 
Frameworks applied to AI  and approaches especially relevant to AI 
systems.   The nexus of AI tools and techniques occurs in the 
embodiments such as advanced Robotics, UAS or Counter-UAS, 
intelligence and defense.  This has been largely driven by reliance on 
vendor-defined bespoke metrics that have no attachment or 
derivations from reference methodology or best-practices – other 
than trust in an honorable vendor.  The issues of risks, regulation and 
governance requires a policy to support the creation as well as the 
enforcement of use of, for example, ISO Standards, such ISO 24707 
(Common Logic) for interchange compliance and many more 
standards development efforts by the expert communities.    AI 
systems are largely unbounded by any hard real-time or responsiveness standards and this mitigates their use, 
trustworthiness,  and reliability in, for example, combat systems. 
Technical and safety standards We recommend  a new US AI government organization be created  
in concert with DoD and the Intelligence Community, FFRDCs, National 
Labs, NIST and DHS to bring the AI best-practices into consensus on 
where safety and technical standards are truly meaningful:   weapons, 
health, banking, smart-cities, vehicles, IoT and other mission-critical 
industries.  
National security and defense We recommend a National Security and Defense caution to addres 
the role of AI in Counter- AI, with respect to Great Power Competition, 
with respect to force-multiplication and irregular warfare.   We shall 
not commit our understanding into the public record at this time but 


4 AI ACTION PLAN – PERMION INC – PUBLIC RESPONSE  can do so within appropriate secure environments of discourse. 
Research and development  There is prevailing tendency to craft or engineer requirements to 
stimulate research and development based on certain commercial 
events. However, there is a large gap in stimulating moonshot 
innovation in the research itself, as well as adoption of agility 
enhancing tools that may be outside of the mainstream.   The key 
impediment is the nature of policies that influence investor decision 
making.   Timelines of investment for serious advancements require 
policies that incentivize domestic industrial base and infrastructure 
efforts in technology over the abundance of investment in business 
scaling which is driven by commodity markets, cost-minimizing 
pursuits which leads to outsourcing and other behaviors that shift the 
value chain of deep investment to adversarial and foreign 
competitors.  Research and development requires the long-game 
policy support that extends beyond any one presidency.    
Education and workforce  We recommend AI enabled workforce development, AI supported 
education practices  with teachers for AI itself to which policies of 
compliance around measurably secure, measurable truth (versus 
deception) will become factors in both training and distinguishing the 
use of AI as appropriate in education.   AI may need to be treated as 
an “adult” tool and not necessarily one that is used as crutch by 
students to cheat their way through home-work.   AI as a support to 
teachers should clearly be supported by policy to force-multiply 
teacher-student effectiveness and personalization of educational 
throughput  
Innovation and competition We recommend adding policies and measures to protect American 
companies from predation and espionage  or exposure of critical AI 
technologies while recognizing that innovation in new AI software or 
infrastructure or chips is very high-risk and competition that 
originates from within the country is an inherently healthy activity,  but 
critical also is to recognize theft from outside the country as a 
predatory and as an unhealthy activity that can compromise much 
more than just the survivability of any one specific company.  
Therefore, measures of “creativeness” and “innovativeness” and 
measures of “originality” as well as measures of “Technology 
Readiness Level” (TRL as defined by NASA) must be used to identify 
the hidden gems of American innovations that need to be protected 
or supported.   It is far too easy for an adversary to circumvent CIFIUS or FOCI issues and any company that has a critical AI technology can 
be targeted by “disinformation” agents of foreign regimes to “poison” 
the well of investor pools.   There are several examples of companies 
that have been removed from the American market and that are now 
part of, for example, Chinese technology assets.      
Intellectual property  We recommend policy to support the protection of American 
sourced Intellectual Property  which is currently wholly absent in the 
Patent system.   AI is the key differentiating technology in the 


5 AI ACTION PLAN – PERMION INC – PUBLIC RESPONSE  projection of national power and the individual as well as corporate 
innovators need to file patents within the American legal apparatus 
that recognizes the need to avoid publications of sources and 
methods to the open world community.  By endorsing policies and 
regulations to transform the current climate of Intellectual Property 
(IP) rights and management of AI specific technologies, to support a 
national registry of trade-secrecy as an America only protected IP 
base, the apparatus of the USPTO may be extended to recognize the 
role of AI both from commercial actors developing within the country 
as well as the DoD/IC focused actors. 
Procurement, international 
collaboration, and export 
controls We recommend A systematic and focused effort on the production 
of business intelligence to serve as an American national treasure  
needs at the very least supporting policies for supply chain creation 
and management, perhaps with the Small Business Administration.  
The supply chain becomes the root cause in the matter for any 
procurement effort, or international collaboration as well as to 
understand the need for where and what kind of export controls are 
needed.   An AI and related-technologies capability based supply 
chain, unification of connected supply chains with the domestic base 
as well as the indirect dependence on foreign individuals, or foreign 
control or foreign assets could be supported by policies to incentivize company procedures for reporting into a structured process.   We can 
think of this as analogous to a national library of assets that could be 
leveraged for value chains based on the supply chain. 
Permion Recommendations for the AI Action Plan  
Permion envisions the result of the AI Action Plan as AI Technological superiority of America as the frontier leader.  We 
define AI Technological superiority as the quality of operations generated by the human and AI tools and techniques used 
to conduct them, to deliver extreme mission agility . This is about an organization’s capacity to anticipate critical 
outcomes in a complex competitive environment and take action to maintain advantage. Operating with mission agility means that any competitor is enduringly overmatched, and the organizations core culture, values, and stakeholder 
benefits are maintained. In a military context this means continuously outwitting, out-thinking, out-maneuvering, and out-pacing any adversary in all domains.  We provide 7 key strategic elements that have several aspects.   
Recommendation #1 – AI Action Plan Requirements Matrix 
We recommend several key AI focused areas for an AI Action Plan to deliver  American  technological superiority  to 
enable mission agility  and to achieve overmatch . Table 2 below presents requirements for such an  AI Action Plan. 
Table-2:  AI Action Plan Requirements Matrix 
What Do We Need?  What Does It Do for the AI Action Plan? Technology Solution Ideas 
1. Communications •Offers limitless possibility for creating •Post-quantum resilient


6 AI ACTION PLAN – PERMION INC – PUBLIC RESPONSE  Integrity and 
Dominance  
Dynamically 
composable trusted 
information 
connections between 
certifiably friendly 
entities, robust to 
adversarial action. AI power, effects webs at the tactical, 
operational, and campaign.  
•Implies inherent backwards
compatibility and just-in-time custom
creation of any needed connections
that AI or human actors need.
•Enables rapid, intelligent, strategic
composition of diverse AI systems
under adversity.cryptology. 
•Zero-trust blockchain,
enabled by AI, for secure
data transfer within and
between theaters.
•AI Smart contracts for chain
of custody of data, users,
and endpoints.
•AI-powered cyber networks
to mitigate risk at the edge  
and offer offensive use.
2. Information &
Decision Dominance
Mastery of all 
available data, 
information, and 
knowledge to 
optimize available 
courses of action for 
mission impact and 
superiority. •Clarity in the AI powered operational
environment through advanced
sensor processing – reduction in the
“fog of war.”
•Eliminate AI hallucination, gain trust,explainability and sustainment.
•Insight through real-time AI
processing all incoming data streams
with advanced AI methods and AI
toolkits to generate new approaches.•Capabilities based on
modular open systems AI
architectures and inherent
capacity for rapidly
composable applications.
•Modern cybernetic system-
of-systems approach to AI 
with feedback  to drive
sensing and decisionmaking in human-AI teams.
•Network and edge-centric
embedded AI forhardware/softwareinfrastructure.
3.Human Machine
AR/VR Insight
Preservation of 
mission-intent 
through timely, high-
fidelity analysis in 
the chain of 
command, effects, and outcomes. •Reduction in operator analytic load
and enhancement of results by AI
powering visual and cognitive relief.
•Instantaneous integration of taskspecific AI Knowledge, Skills, Abilities
(KSAs) and AI improvement in after-
action reports/lessons learned into
the operational AI refinement process.•Augmented and Virtual
reality technologies (AR/VR)
integrate the AI with human-
on-the-loop.
•AI-enabled Brain sensing to
enhance C4I.
•Machine Learning fromhuman expertise, powers
the human with profound
insight and foresight.
4. Asymmetric
Computi ng
Superior algorithms 
through quantum 
design thinking, •The ability to assess past and present
data and project through all plausiblefutures; achieved through systems
that utilize quantum features:
superposition, entanglement, and
interference.•Non-Von Neumann
Computing, includingQuantum computing,
algorithm design, and
emulation with AI/ML
augmentation.


7 AI ACTION PLAN – PERMION INC – PUBLIC RESPONSE  solving problems in 
complex, high-
dimensional spaces 
with unmatched 
speed.  •Detecting weak signals hidden in noise
and obscured by complexity, allowing
for a new level of insight into the
operational space.
•Cross-domain insight at any scale and
across differing types of effects
networks offers new COAs for
adversary competition, deterrence, or
defeat.•QIS-based representations
for data / information /
knowledge.
• Programmer-friendly QIS-
Based Languages and Tools  
for efficient, fast, capability development. 
•Graph computation andrepresentation with
integrated QIS-based
techniques.
•Algorithms to identify weak
signals in data and lead to
identification of novel COAs.
5. Anticipatory
Operation s
Integrate past, 
present, and 
plausible future 
scenarios for optimal 
power projection. •Anticipatory CONOPS: continuous AI
scanning and inference, integration oflessons learned, draw out signal from
noise and identify patterns of data in
motion. Synthesize cohesive
situational picture using AI across
domains and as a sequence in time to
project plausible futures for COA
development.•AI based Digital Twins
•Quantum & Quantum
Network/Graph Computing
•Automatic ontology
construction that integrates
all the elements in the
previous sections of thismatrix.
Recommendation #2 – Reference the National Strategic Interests  
We recommend using the key national strategic interests in the AI Action Plan that provides the key reference 
needs.  We have consolidated these into table-2 below. 
Table-3: References for National Strategic Interests 
TOP NEEDS  SELECTED STATEMENTS  REFERENCES  
Mission Agility & 
Anticipatory Operations 
Only through hindsight (past), 
insight (present), foresight 
(future), topsight (past, 
present, future) that we can 
seek to understand and 
anticipate. 2018 National Security and Defense Security 
Strategies address the new character of warfare. 
The 2018 NSS states “...Majority of adversary 
efforts in Competition phase (short of armed 
conflict) ... (are) challenging our ability to deter 
aggression.” It is in the cognitive realm we are 
losing the ideological war on multiple fronts, we are 
losing our intellectual property, our adversaries are 
outmaneuvering us, and we are failing to achieve 
overmatch because we focus solely on kinetic options.  https://nsiteam.com/futu
re-military-intelligence-
conops-and-st-
investment-roadmap-
2035-2050-the-
cognitive-war/ 
https://nsiteam.com/soci
al/wp-
content/uploads/2019/0
4/Future -MI-CONOPS-
and-ST -Roadmap-2035-


8 AI ACTION PLAN – PERMION INC – PUBLIC RESPONSE  Moving from Perpetually Reactive Posture to one of 
Proactive Influence and Predictive Analysis. 
Anticipatory intelligence  involves collecting and 
analyzing information to identify new, emerging 
trends, changing conditions, and undervalued 
developments, which challenge long-standing 
assumptions and encourage new perspectives, as 
well as identify new opportunities and warn of 
threats to U.S. interests. Anticipatory intelligence usually leverages a cross-disciplinary approach, and 
often utilizes specialized tradecraft to identify 
emerging issues from “weak signals,” cope with 
high degrees of uncertainty, and consider 
alternative futures.  2050_2-20-
2019_FINAL.pdf 
https://www.dni.gov/files
/ODNI/documents/Nation
al_Intelligence_Strategy
_2019.pdf  
Machine Learning/ 
Artificial Intelligence; 
Graph Signal & Cyber Edge 
Processing  "We can send a UAS to look down alleys, around 
buildings, in backyards, or on a roof to see what's 
up there, dramatically increasing Soldier protection 
and preserving the force - a vital force multiplier in 
this era of persistent conflict ”  - Major General 
James O. Barclay, III, Commanding General of the 
United States Army Aviation Center of Excellence 
(USAACE) and Fort Rucker, AL https://fas.org/irp/progr
am/collect/uas-army.pdf 
Non-Von Neumann & 
Quantum Computing; 
Blockchain, Smart -Contracts & 
Cryptography  DoD CIO Priorities: 
• Cybersecurity
• Artificial Intelligence (AI)
• Cloud (NB:  Combat systems can be standalone)   
• Command, Control and Communications (C3)Digital Modernization Goals:
• Innovate for Competitive Advantage
• Optimize for Efficiencies and Improved Capability
• Evolve Cybersecurity for an Agile and Resilient
Defense Posture
Protect the combined commercial, civil, and military 
command, control, communications, computer, 
intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
(C4ISR) infrastructure to monitor and control space 
operations and provide information services in, 
through, and from the cislunar environment during 
peace and conflict. https://media.defense.g
ov/2019/Jul/12/
1/-1/1/DOD -
DIGITAL-
MODERNIZATION-
STRATEGY-2019.PDF 
https://www.afspc.af.mil/
Portals/3/Future of 
Space 2060 (5 Sep).pdf 


9 AI ACTION PLAN – PERMION INC – PUBLIC RESPONSE  Recommendation #2 – Compound AI as a Path to Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) 
The rise of Large Language Models (LLMs) in 2023 has transformed AI application development. We recommend AI  
models and their computational algorithms or agents be treated as Compound AI systems , which aim to integrate 
many components to achieve beyond state-of-the-art results.  We recommend the AI Action Plan use the DoD DODAF and engineering best-practices based on analogs in combat systems mission engineering doctrine.     Retrieval-
Augmented Generation and complex multi-step inference strategies using chain-of-though prompt engineering are ad-
hoc solutions to the deeper problem of sound and verifiable inference. Therefore, the AI Action Plan should include 
incentives to enhance performance beyond what any monolithic models can achieve, combine LLMs with other components like symbolic solvers, constraint solvers, logic, and a variety of code execution modules and favor a path 
to 
Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) .   Even a task-specific activity (e.g., drug-design) may require several AI 
models, humans and a variety of expertise to achieve impactful results, all of which can contribute to AGI development. 
Compound AI systems address challenges that single models cannot.  We recommend  the AI Action Plan include not 
only the policies to guardrail auto-regressive or statistical AI models, to endorse and incentivize the use of 
symbolic methods, first-order or modal logical models, neural and hybrid systems .   This approach favors and 
emphasizes data, information and knowledge representation including adoption and adherence to standards or 
community endorsed best-practices.  The approach disincentives black-box approaches and incentivizes the use of 
measurably secure rationally bounded approaches to mitigate risks. 
Compound AI integrates neural and symbolic, both static and dynamic data, improving control and trust, and 
optimizing performance for varied application requirements,  offering substantial benefits, including reliable, 
trustworthy, and efficient AI.   We recommend Neurosymbolic AI to support compound AI technologies , Agents and 
systems.    Developing AGI using compound AI systems involves navigating a vast design space, optimizing the interplay of different components, and managing intricate operations and this will require extensive benchmarks. 
Recommendation #3 – AI Instruction Set Architecture and Formal Methods 
We recommend national focus on the design of the Instruction Set Architecture (ISA) and the models of AI 
computing because the ISA is at the heart of the problem for AI superiority, software and hardware .   There is 
little work available in AI ISA design and there is a need for both task-specific and cross-task AI processing 
acceleration.    To get more scale or speed, at the high cost of power and memory, systems are tiled, cascaded or 
layered in pursuit of the performance to run large AI models, to perform the vast numerical calculations and to 
manage data processing.    Conventional computing relies on a Von-Neumann design paradigm and an ossified 
reliance silicon materials science for manufacturing. New computing approaches intrinsically need new materials 
science not based on silicon.  But this needs policy to halt the stifling effect of silicon. 
We recommend considering new and emerging AI processor designs  for Non-Von-Neumann deeply parallel, data-
driven, or data-oriented computing that uses new materials and alternative materials properties or physics.     However, the issue of the ISA, and the subsequent issues of how AI is defined within such a system will require a joint 
approach to rapidly evolve, iterate and co-design new data structure representations that may include new 
representations of the concept of a “number” as well as encouraging and supporting new or nascent processes with 
its alternatives, such as analog array processing, photonics, or quantum.  
We recommend policies that support 
formal methods and verifications.   The ultimate version of AI empowerment: the ability of software to define 


10 AI ACTION PLAN – PERMION INC – PUBLIC RESPONSE  hardware in which AI co-evolves within human intent ions for creating the capabilities required for delivery at any 
time, any place, with proof of correctness, integrity, trust and verifiability. 
Recommendation #4 – Quantum Information Science as Key Enabler to AGI  
Power in the modern conflict/competition environment is accumulated to those with mastery of information and 
technology.  While conventional information science is well-established, we can see the future in an AI Action Plan 
transformed by leveraging policies that support the use of Quantum  Information Science (QIS).   We recommend 
leveraging the Quantum Information Science (QIS) for  artificial general intelligence  (AGI) in a co-optimal, co-
design strategy, that only then can both hardware and software, materials-science and manufacturing be approached 
holistically and in concert together.  We recommend the AI Action Plan favor QIS and thus a path to AGI. 
With the emerging exponential capacity of Quantum Computing, we see QIS able to unlock powerful new capabilities.   
Therefore, QIS should be favored by policy in any AI Action Plan for Quantum AI, Quantum Inspired AI or other 
approaches leveraging QIS and should be considered one of the key bedrock theories underlying every choice, design motivation, asset, and technology in this endeavor.  
We recommend emphasis on quantum approaches, and QIS that will define the coming AI era in much the same 
way as Einstein’s energy-mass equation defined the Nuclear Age. 
Recommendation #5 – Public Private Partnerships 
We recommend a rapid and iterative Private-Public partnership  for not only the big businesses, but most 
importantly as a deliberate act of policy for the small emerging AI business.   We recognized the need for a new 
corporate strategy that we outline here to underpin the organizational approach:  
1.We recommend a “Skunk Works” mindset : A talented, well-led, and well-funded team can achieve more than
a large bureaucracy.  Small companies can achieve more agility in innovation than large corporates.
2.This effort and all involved should be inclusive of an ongoing creation of American society, its development,
and maturation of the practice  of the representative government, the use of AI in daily life and the support of
capitalism within that structure, against adversarial philosophies from peer-competitors.
3.We recommend defining an AI Entity that uniquely represents American national interests  by design and
societal ideals, in essence acting as a Constitutional Citizen (a “virtual” synthetic entity with thinking skills) –that means we need policies integrated into the engineering of AI so that AI is built by design to be resilient
to adverse effects much like a war fighter is trained for survival, evasion, resistance and escape.
Recommendation #6 – Human Centered AI and Specific Measures of Impact 
We recommend that AI needs to be governed with the center of action as the  “human -on-the-loop- of-AI”.  In this 
viewpoint, convergent technologies augment the human, not replacing the human and the primary agent in the 
operational “space” of commercial competition, battle, intelligence, or other is centered on the human or the human-
AI team.  Any desired operational quality becomes the achievement of desired and chosen outcomes by an AI system 
supporting the human, while maintaining freedom of action and minimizing adversarial knowledge and response.  The 
key foundation for this systems design approach is through technological convergence  of communications, AI/ML, 
high-performance computing, and an entirely new concept of AI centric processing.    Today’s processing has been 


11 AI ACTION PLAN – PERMION INC – PUBLIC RESPONSE  graphics centric (GPU) but applied to AI or specific to various number-crunching tasks – none of which are tailored as 
AI centric. 
Technological convergence generally refers to the combination of individual technologies to create new capabilities 
and modalities previously unseen.   While this has been the case with the convergence of graphics technologies into AI 
technologies, it needs to move to native AI focus.   For example, the convergence of compact microelectronics for 
cameras, telecommunications, and processors yielded the smart phone. Convergence in the AI Action Plan in our 
viewpoints means the phenomenon of AI and design thinking within engineering best-practices.  Our vision of 
convergence means that mission capabilities can be constituted with reconfiguration  instead of redesign , and 
functionality develops synergistically. As a result we promote the following five specific impact measures: 
1.AI SWaP to Performance ratio : Total product size decreases while total performance increases.
2.AI Cyber Readiness Level :  Total fragility decreases while resilience increases.
3.Public AI Economic Scalability :  Total cost of ownership decreases while adoption rate increases.
4.Public AI ROI Scaling :  Total cost of new products decreases while returns on investments increases.
5.AI Total impact Metric :  a composite measure of items 1 through 4 preceding is maximized.
Implementing this vision in service of US defense and commerce will provide the nation with overwhelming advantage over any competitor.  We envision an augmented human-on -the-loop of AI, conducting 
anticipatory operations , 
enabled by quantum information science (QIS), will provide overwhelming force regardless of domain and compose 
asymmetric advantages produced by the key set of strategic measures.  
Recommendation #7 – Design Thinking Approach to Knowledge Intensive Competition 
"Knowledge itself is Power" , Francis Bacon,   Meditationes Sacrae  (ca. 1597)  
We recommend a holistic  approach to AI using Design Thinking principles to elevate the knowledge intensive 
competition  in America’s favor over that of peer-competitors and adversaries .   Policies and regulations that 
reduce the need for rules and dogma but empowers and trusts people at the center of the activities in AI are required:  in effect, a policy to foster teaming for AI outcomes between large and small players so that the infrastructure benefits of large players can be leveraged by the innovative small actors. 
“Design thinking is a human-centered approach to innovation that draws from the designer’s toolkit to integrate the 
needs of people, the possibilities of technology, and the requirements for business success.” – Tim Brown, Chairman, 
IDEO4 
We recommend using Design Thinking4 as a key aspect in the AI Action Plan to provide a framework to transform 
the very basic processes of human and AI technology research to business outcomes in synergistic way.   Design 
Thinking principles used as a concept of strategy to build the AI Action Plan could result (for example) in the addition of salient policies that accelerate academia, industry, and government value of innovations, by
 unlocking access to 
government IP (patents, prototypes, methods) that are siloed and otherwise hidden in various agencies or lying 
dormant in university laboratories.      The Design Thinking approach, as we see it, deserves organizational review in 
4 https://designthinking.ideo.com/  


12 AI ACTION PLAN – PERMION INC – PUBLIC RESPONSE  the AI Action Plan around the nature of commercial off the shelf (COTS) open-source tools and technologies.  We draw 
attention to the potential and latent critical dangers to signify critical cautions for any future AI Action Plan: 
•COTS and Open-Source is not focused on interoperability.  Interoperability is critical to AI systems.
•COTS and Open-Source does not have Security-by-design.  AI requires security in its foundations.
•Today’s AI Models have a mix of sources, inherent inconsistencies, and maintainability issues.
•Malicious contributions pose significant and often undetected risk.  Counter-AI is not understood.
•Human-AI Performance metrics are not generally aligned or developed with task-specific, sector specific, DoD
or IC mission requirements.  Rather, these are derived from COTS or Open-Source foundational AI models as
rote truth rather than through curated, configured, verified, sources and best-practices to any community ofinterest.
We recommend the AI Action Plan prioritize these concerns in the assessment of assets from COTS and open 
source while supporting the innovation process,  empowering collective knowledge intensive competition 
(against peers) while crafting open-source derived but trusted solutions.   This implies also and especially favoring 
the unique and proprietary values that bring expertise from America’s innovative thinkers and providing policies that 
attract asymmetrical advantages in developers toward a whole of nation AI-benefits driven approach.     
While open-source is surely to always be some component of AI, we suggest the true value is locked in people within 
the companies and establishments that if resources  are freed up to support collaboration and cooperation, for 
example, punishing agencies that avoid CRADA’s (Collaborative Research And Development Agreements) and 
rewarding agencies that attract CRADA’s will contribute to rapidly advancing an AI Action Plan into tangible AI outcomes that cannot be predicted by extrapolative thinking.    
It is easy to forget that beneficial strategic surprises reside within America.    We are suggesting unlocking these 
benefits by addressing the AI Action Plan to include design-thinking, cooperation, collaboration incentives for AI and 
the resultant empowerment to build AI focused intellectual property will become exponential.  This process can start in 
the classroom or the boardroom, with the tinkerers and enabling a broader support through introspective intelligence 
via supply chain inventory and analytics within the United States.  We recommend,  this process should proceed in 
the AI Action Plan  irrespective of mainstream or commodity availability of conventional AI mindsets, tools, software 
libraries and open-source data resources or ossified agency or group cultures in various sectors, markets or domains 
that inhibit outreach and opportunity.  
END OF RESPONSE 


