From: Philip Walker
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] Ai Action Plan
Date: Wednesday, February 12, 2025 1:17:49 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening  
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
To whom it may concern,
To date, Ai and robotics has been slow to benefit Main Street America.  I am a  
published researcher in the financial planning world, an investor, and former business  
owner.  I am in the process of buying and building laundromats with the purpose of  
integrating both of these technologies.  The result will lower the laundry service price  
for Americans of all financial levels.  We intend to develop training protocols for Ai  
driven humanoid robots, such as the Tesla Optimus, to operate during the night shift  
in traditional laundromats. This will also help thousands of mom-and-pop laundromats  
survive this coming technology revolution.
Proposal: I would propose that the Small Business Administration make special R&D  
loans available for this effort as well as subsidize lower-than-market interest rates  
available to laundromat owners to acquire this technology. Most laundromats do not  
offer a wash-dry-fold service, and will not be able to compete, in the near future, with  
the ones that do that utilize Ai and robotics.  We have partnered with an industry-
leading laundromat owner and consultant for this effort and will be opening our first  
locations in the coming months. We will be moving forward with or without any federal  
assistance, however, this request would greatly help the broader industry and an  
introduction to the Optimus team for beta test assistance would be appreciated. 
Sincerely
Phil Walker 
CEO-Founder, Einstein's Laundry
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


