 
   3/10/2025 via FDMS  
Phillip Masterson   
To whom it may concern, I would like to submit a comment regarding the development of the AI 
Action Plan as requested in the recent RFI. As an Algorithm Scientist working at a 
semiconductor metrology company that regularly conducts business with TSMC, Inte l, Samsung, 
and other industry leaders, I have a front -row seat to how US policy impacts the semiconductor 
industry and, by extension, AI development. In light of my experience, I have several 
recommendations: First, I strongly recommend implementing a lig htweight, targeted reporting 
system that focuses on the capabilities of the most advanced AI systems. Given the speed at 
which this technology is advancing, it is vital for the current administration to have a clear 
picture of the latest developments, part icularly regarding ways in which they could pose a threat 
to national security. This would not only help inform policy, but also give your administration a 
better idea of what threats it may face from future intelligent systems developed by foreign 
adversaries. Second, for similar reasons, your administration should go out of its way to hire top -
tier AI experts who truly understand the technology. A dedicated AI team would help avoid 
unnecessary bureaucracy, let the government take advantage of new AI capab ilities, and provide 
valuable input into policy. Third, it is imperative to quickly and proactively work with industry 
to create targeted security standards for frontier AI labs. Current standards are lacking relative to 
the immense value these companies p rovide to the US, and hacking and IP theft by adversarial 
countries pose an urgent threat to our technological lead. The NSA and other key agencies 
should establish working relationships with frontier labs so they can share their expertise and 
stay informe d on the latest developments. Fourth, export controls on foreign adversaries are 
necessary to maintain American dominance in AI. Your administration should leave existing 
controls in place and crack down on loopholes, with particular attention given to H20 s and other 
high-end chips that are not currently covered. Fifth, the US' lead in AI technology should not be 
impeded by a slowly -growing US electrical grid. Regulatory barriers for all sources of power 
generation should be streamlined wherever possible. T his will keep our AI companies 
competitive and create thousands of high -paying American jobs. Finally, as someone working in 
the US semiconductor industry, I can say with confidence that repeal of the CHIPS Act would 
dampen the recent explosion of growth U S chip manufacturing. If reforming the act is necessary, 
it should be done carefully and with extensive input from industry experts. Thank you for your 
consideration. I encourage the Trump administration to make robust AI policy a high priority 
throughout the next four years. Sincerely, Dr. Phillip Masterson  
 


