1 
670 Maine Avenue , SW • Suite 1000 , Washington, DC 20024 • PHRMA.ORG  
March 15, 2025  
VIA Electronic Filing – 
Faisal D'Souza  
Technical Coordinator  
National Coordination Office  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development Program  
National Science Foundation  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Re:Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action 
Plan 
Dear Mr. D’Souza:  
The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) appreciates the opportunity to 
provide comments in response to the Office of Science and Technology Policy Networking and 
Information Technology Research and Development National Coordination Office’s Request for 
Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan .1 PhRMA represents the 
country’s leading innovative biopharmaceutical research companies, which are laser focused on 
developing innovative medicines that transform lives and create a healthier world. Together , we are 
fighting for solutions to ensure patients can access and afford medicines that prevent, treat and cure 
disease. Over the last decade, PhRMA member companies have invested more than $800 billion in the 
search for new treatments and cures, and they supp ort nearly five million jobs in the United States.  
As the Administration considers the development of the Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan , it is 
important to emphasize that the application of AI in drug development and health care is distinct from 
applications in other sectors, and different cases will require nuance in differing policy and regulatory 
considerations. The American biopharmaceutical industry relies on a unique foundation of scientific 
research investment, strong intellectual property (IP) protections , and a flexible regulatory framework, 
which, in turn, allows life -saving innovation to flourish in the United States. As the use  of AI in health 
care, including in drug development,  advances, it is critical that AI -enabled solutions are used 
responsibly and are trustworthy. Therefore, it is crucial that future policies on the use of AI impacting  
1 National Science Foundation. (2025). Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan. Available 
at: https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/02/06/2025 -02305/request -for-information -on-the-development -of-an-artificial-
intelligence -ai-action-plan.   


2 
670 Maine Avenue , SW • Suite 1000 , Washington, DC 20024 • PHRMA.ORG  
the biopharmaceutical industry preserve this foundation and take industry -specific considerations into 
account. By the same token, the industry recognizes the need to use AI in a thoughtful and responsible 
manner, with careful consideration given to advancing biopharmaceutical innovation, supply chain 
resiliency and emerging AI -generated biosecurity threats.  
This letter contains our detailed recommendations for policy actions  that should be included in the 
new “AI Action Plan. ” A summary is as follows: 
I.Intellectual Property:  It is imperative that U.S. law and policy apply the same standards to
granting IP protections whether an invention is made using AI or not, as AI is a tool that can be
used to facilitate biopharmaceutical research and development (R&D). Such law and policy
should facilitate and protect the patenting of AI technologies, as well as inventions created using
AI, and provide private industry with certainty in the ownership rights for such inventions.
PhRMA and our member companies look for ward to partnering with the Administration in
developing prudent patent and other IP policies that maintain America’s innovation advantage as
the capabilities of AI continue to change.
II.Regulatory Framework:  The U.S. must ensure it remains a global leader in AI -enabled
biopharmaceutical innovation by fostering a competitive environment that promotes  innovation
with a flexible, risk -based regulatory approach . PhRMA believes the  current U.S. regulatory
framework is sufficiently flexible to allow such an environment to flourish . Such an approach is
necessary to help ensure that the U.S. does not lose its competitive edge to foreign developers
and to avoid delays due to regulatory uncertainty.
III.Ethical and Responsible U se: America’s biopharmaceutical companies are committed to
appropriate, transparent, accountable and responsible use of AI, prioritizing the health and well -
being of patients. Trustworthy, transparent use of AI is critical to the application of AI in patient -
centered care.  The biopharma ceutical industry has a long history of conducting ethical and
responsible drug development , both due to the industry’s ethical standards and commitment to
holding itself accountable as well as  regulatory requirements,  that also extends to its use of AI .
Future polic ies must allow the industry to operate efficiently while upholding these standards.
American biopharmaceutical companies far exceed the rest of the world in their R&D investments, 
accounting for over 52% of global biopharmaceutical R&D spending.2 Additionally, the 
biopharmaceutical industry is expected to invest more than $3 billion on AI by the end of  2025, a 
marked increase from $463 million invested in 2019.3 This significant investment emphasizes the 
industry’s commitment to utilizing AI as a tool to transform processes throughout drug discovery and 
2 T.Long and R.D.Atkinson. (2023). Innovation Wars: How China Is Gaining on the United States in Corporate R&D . Information 
Technology & Innovation Foundation. Retrieved from https://www2.itif.org/2023 -us-china-corporate -rd.pdf.     
3 Global Data. (2022). Pharma industry’s spending on artificial intelligence could reach over $3 billion by 2025, says GlobalData . 
Retrieved from https://www.globaldata.com/media/pharma/pharma -industrys-spending-artificial-intelligence -reach-3-billion-2025-says-
globaldata/ .  


3 
670 Maine Avenue , SW • Suite 1000 , Washington, DC 20024 • PHRMA.ORG  
development and throughout the supply chain  and manufacturing, in addition to the  promising impact AI 
will continue to have in getting therapies and cures to Americans faster.  
AI has the potential to transform drug discovery, development and manufacturing by significantly 
increasing efficiencies, improving quality of research, and facilitating novel approaches to develop and 
deliver new medicines. A recent study shows that there h as been an increasing number of submissions to 
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that incorporated AI elements in recent years.4 AI is a 
tool leveraged by the biopharmaceutical industry to enhance a variety of tasks, including, but not limited 
to, nonclinical and clinical research, post -market activities (e.g., safety monitoring/pharmacovigilance, 
analysis of real -world data), manufacturing, and submissions to regulatory agencies.5 Altogether, with 
the right policies, AI has significant promise to help enhance U.S. manufacturing and supply and 
improve access to current and future medicines for patients.  
To regulate AI technology in a way that continues to support the biopharmaceutical industry’s adoption 
of AI technologies across the drug lifecycle, it is necessary to provide companies with regulatory 
certainty by developing a federally driven, flexible, risk -based approach. While the continued growth in 
the use of AI across the drug lifecycle brings promise to patients by supporting the development of hard -
to-find therapies and decreasing  development timelines, it is crucial that regulatory review ensures  that 
new technologies are properly validated , monitored , and utilized . Furthermore, in recognizing AI as a 
tool, the biopharmaceutical industry believes that human oversight of AI tools and involvement is 
paramount  throughout the drug lifecycle and should also remain an essential aspect of regulatory 
oversight.  
Beyond drug discovery,  development , and manufacturing, AI is transforming management of chronic 
health conditions and rare diseases by enabling earlier detection  and more effective treatment strategies, 
as well as improving patient outcomes. These advancements are shifting health care from a costly, 
reactive model to one that emphasizes prevention, early intervention and personalized care. We 
encourage any future policy efforts to prioritize AI’s potential to foster efficient biopharmaceutical 
innovation, bolster American leadership in innovation, and improve health outcomes.  
In recent years, America’s biopharmaceutical industry has proven that responsible utilization  of 
AI can: 
•Help quickly, efficiently, and accurately analyze massive amounts of data to inform drug
development and identify potential drug benefits  and safety risks;
4 Liu Q, Huang R, Hsieh J, et al. (2022). Landscape Analysis of the Application of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning  in 
Regulatory Submissions for Drug Development From 2016 to 2021.  Clinical pharmacology and therapeutics , 113(4), 771-774. 
5 PhRMA. Artificial Intelligence and Biopharmaceutical Innovation. March 2025.Available at: https://phrma.org/resources/artificial -
intelligence -and-biopharmaceutical -innovation   


4 
670 Maine Avenue , SW • Suite 1000 , Washington, DC 20024 • PHRMA.ORG  
•Assist in discovering and developing new drugs and treatment for the over 5,000 rare diseases
that currently have limited treatment options; and
•Accelerate the discovery, design, testing, and delivery of new medicines and therapies that will
help treat and cure patients with potentially life -threatening illnesses.
Examples of how the biopharmaceutical industry has leveraged AI to advance R&D and facilitate 
real world data/evidence collection include:  
•AI can be used to screen and test drug candidates and analyze digitized cell images so that
promising leads can be identified more quickly and accurately amongst millions of compounds
within in-house libraries, and to identify promising biomarkers.6
•AI can be used to assist in the design of antibodies for  medicines that may interact with a known
biological target or pathway.7
•Computational modeling can be used to determine personalized cancer treatments by reviewing
data including patient genetic makeup, biopsy information, and diagnostic tests and scans.8
•AI can be used to perform a differential diagnosis between two similar diseases, allowing general
practitioners to diagnose a condition that could otherwise only be reliably diagnosed by
specialists, to differentiate disease and non -disease conditions (e.g ., a patient with heart disease
versus a healthy individual) or to determine the status of a disease (e.g., a particular stage of
cancer).9
•AI may be used in clinical trial design to streamline and expedite drug development. It can also
be used to monitor hundreds of ongoing worldwide clinical trials across thousands of sites in real
time to help anticipate, identify, and resolve issues that s low or compromise clinical testing.10
•AI can be used post -approval to monitor clinical outcomes and safety of a medicine taken by a
number of patients , an exercise that would take  far too large for a single human to monitor.11
6 Hacking R&D , id.; Godinez et al. (2022). Design of potent antimalarials with generative chemistry. Retrieved from 
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/358815282_Design_of_potent_antimalarials_with_generative_chemistry  ; Cáceres et al. (2022). 
Deep learning approaches in predicting ADMET properties. Retrieved from https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33124448/  ; Comment of 
Novartis, USPTO Request for Comments on  Patenting Artificial Intelligence Inventions, Docket No. PTO -C-2019-0029, 84 Fed. Reg. 
44889 (Aug. 27, 2019).  
7 Prihoda et al. (2022). BioPhi: A platform for antibody design, humanization, and humanness evaluation based on natural antibody 
repertoires and deep learning. Retrieved from https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/19420862.2021.2020203  ; Struble et al. 
(2020). Current and Future Roles of Artificial Intelligence in Medicinal Chemistry Synthesis. Retrieved from 
https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.jmedchem.9b02120  ; BRISTOL  MYERS SQUIBB, supra note 3. 
8 Comment of Genentech, Inc., USPTO Request for Comments on Patenting Artificial Intelligence Inventions, Docket No. PTO -C-2019-
0029, 84 Fed. Reg. 44889 (Aug. 27, 2019).  
9 Comment of Novartis, supra note 4; Comment of Genentech, Inc., supra note 6. 
10 Comment of Novartis , supra note 4; From numbers to knowledge , supra note 3.  
11 Comment of Genentech, Inc., supra note 6.  


5 
670 Maine Avenue , SW • Suite 1000 , Washington, DC 20024 • PHRMA.ORG  
I.Strong and Predictable Intellectual Property Protections for AI Technologies and
Inventions Created Using AI Technologies Are Necessary to Secure America’s Innovati on
Dominance
A robust and reliable patent and broader IP system in the United States promotes the biomedical R&D 
ecosystem and PhRMA members’ decisions to invest billions of dollars into R&D each year. Likewise, 
strong and predictable IP protection for inventions related to AI are critical to not only encourag e the use 
of such technologies in R&D, but also in securing American leadership and dominance in this domain. 
Accordingly, it is important for U.S. law and policy to facilitate and protect the patenting of AI 
technologies as well as inventions created using  AI and provide private industry with certainty in the 
ownership rights for such inventions. As this field continues to evolve and the capabilities and definition 
of AI change, robust discussion with stakeholders, including the biopharmaceutical industry, will be key 
to the development of prudent patent and other IP policies that maintain America’s innovation 
advantage. PhRMA has previously submitted comments to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on 
issues relating to IP and AI12 and looks forward to working with this Administration as issues related to 
AI develop in the future.  
II.Securing and Maintaining U.S. Competitiveness and Leadership in AI Requires a Flexible,
Risk-Based Regulatory Environment
The increasing use of AI in drug development and throughout the drug lifecycle holds enormous 
promise for patients. AI tools speed the pace of innovation while also enabling new approaches to help 
ensure safety, effectiveness, and quality of medicines. PhR MA believes the current U.S.  regulatory 
framework is sufficiently flexible to enable the use of AI as a reliable tool across drug development. As 
the Administration formulates its AI Action Plan, the continued application of a flexible, risk -based 
approach to regulatory oversight of AI use will allow the U.S. to maintain its competitive advantage.  
Employing a risk -based regulatory framework is essential to fostering innovation, given that AI 
applications vary significantly and should be evaluated based on their intended use and risk profile .  For 
example, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act enables FDA’s risk-based approach to regulatory 
oversight of AI within its purview .   
While PhRMA believes FDA’s current regulatory framework is sufficiently flexible, guidance from 
FDA should build upon the  strong foundation that already exists  for developing and evaluating uses of 
12  PhRMA, Comment in Response to the USPTO’s Request for Comments Regarding Artificial Intelligence and Inventorship, Docket No.  
PTO-P-2022-0045 (May 15, 2023); PhRMA, Comment in Response to the USPTO’s Request for Comments Regarding the Impact of the 
Proliferation of Artificial Intelligence on Prior Art, the Knowledge of a Person Having Ordinary Skill in the Art, and Determinati ons of 
Patentability Made in View of the Foregoing, Docket No. PTO –P–2023–0044 (July 29, 2024); PhRMA, Comment in Response to the 
USPTO’s 2024 Guidance Update on Patent Subject Matter Eligibility, Including on Artificial Intelligence, Docket No. PTO -P-2024-0026 
(Oct. 16, 2024).  


 
 
 
6 
 
670 Maine Avenue , SW • Suite 1000 , Washington, DC 20024 • PHRMA.ORG  
 
AI models. For the biopharmaceutical industry, FDA guidance generally reduces uncertainty regarding 
new technologies and plays an important role in encouraging investment . The Agency’s recent draft 
guidance on the use of AI to support regulatory decision -making in drug development13 provides insight 
into the approach FDA intends to apply , which will help enhance confidence in the application of this 
technology by stakeholders. PhRMA looks forward to providing comments on this draft guidance and 
FDA’s continued work in this area.   
 
In addition, given the global nature of drug development, U.S. leadership in AI -enabled innovation can 
help drive alignment across global regulators to achieve harmonization, where feasible . This would help 
foster innovation by minimizing duplicative, overlapping, or inconsistent approaches to regulation. 
Venues such as the International Council for Harmonisation (ICH), the International Coalition of 
Medicines Regulatory Authorities (ICMRA), the International Medical Device Regulators Forum 
(IMDRF), Pharmac eutical Inspection Co -operation Scheme (PIC/S), or other  nimble regulator to 
regulator discussions are useful avenues as regulators work towards global alignment on regulatory 
expectations. In an increasingly interconnected biopharmaceutical landscape, reducing regulatory 
divergence fosters innovation and increases efficiencies in drug development.  
 
An Agile Approach to Regulatory Oversight of AI Use Is Paramount  
 
A responsive and agile approach regarding the oversight of AI is needed, as the use of AI tools in drug 
research and development is evolving.  Ongoing dialogue with stakeholders can help ensure that 
regulatory approaches remain informed by practical implementation to address  challenges, while 
maintaining opportunities to promote transparency and innovation.  We ask that the AI Action Plan 
include sufficient opportunities for the biopharmaceutical industry, AI developers and FDA to 
collaborate and share best practices , thereby helping the U.S. lead in innovation and  bring treatments to 
patients faster.  
 
FDA’s ability to review AI -generated data and associated algorithms will also require an integrated 
approach across FDA centers and a robust infrastructure. As FDA continues to develop AI -related 
policy, establishing a common vocabulary will be important. As such, we commend FDA on its recently 
published digital health and AI glossary,14 and encourage its use to facilitate harmonization across FDA 
centers, other U.S. agencies, as well as across regulators. PhRMA  also encourages  the National Institute 
of Standards and Technology  (NIST) and other U.S. Government  entities, including FDA, to work 
together in developing  and/or adopting best practices and standards  that can be used to facilitate 
 
13 U.S. Food and Drug Administration. (2025). Draft Guidance for Industry: Considerations for the Use of Artificial Intelligence to Support 
Regulatory Decision -Making for Drug and Biological Products . Retrieved from  https://www.fda.gov/media/184830/download . 
14 U.S. Food and Drug Administration. (2025). FDA Digital Health and Artificial Intelligence Glossary – Educational Resource (accessed 
Feb. 20, 2025). Retrieved from https://www.fda.gov/science -research/artificial -intelligence -and-medical-products/fda -digital-health-and-
artificial-intelligence -glossary-educational -resource. 


7 
670 Maine Avenue , SW • Suite 1000 , Washington, DC 20024 • PHRMA.ORG  
understanding and share case studies across  industries.  
Regulator Adoption of AI Can Increase Efficiency and Help Spur Innovation  
PhRMA encourages FDA to incorporate AI tools where feasible to gain efficiencies in its own 
operations. For example, AI -based approaches can help to streamline workflows and enable  FDA to 
make decisions more efficiently and consistently in its routine practices. Sharing lessons learned with 
stakeholders, as appropriate, including what criteria FDA uses to assess AI model credibility and 
trustworthiness, what specific AI models it us es, and how FDA uses human -in-the-loop to ensure 
appropriate oversight and a ccuracy of AI models, can help provide additional assurance to 
biopharmaceutical companies as they continue to utilize and incorporate AI in drug development.  
Furthermore, continuing to build and maintain an internal workforce t hat has the expertise to review 
drug submissions that incorporate AI elements will be critical to ensure the regulatory environment 
keeps pace with this rapidly evolving field.    
III.Appropriate Safeguards Are Needed to Ensure Transparent, Responsible use of AI
The promise AI presents for the U.S. health care system is immense. When appropriately leveraged 
through a commitment to principles such as appropriate human oversight and accountability, ethical and 
responsible use, and a patient focus, there is significant potential for AI to contribute to incredible 
scientific advancements and patient access. However, as with any new technology, AI tools c ould also 
be used to impede access to care if not used responsibly. C ertain safeguards are important to prevent 
egregious misapplications of AI in health care .  
Development of consensus -based, sector -specific guardrails 
Any guardrails should consider sector -specific needs and factors such as end users and impact and 
calibrate the level of enforcement to both the specific levels of risk and benefits the use may impose. 
The Administration and regulators should align with the policies and practices that reflect industry -wide 
input, including national and international standards. Due to the rapidly evolving nature of this 
technology, any guardrails should also be developed in pa rtnership with the private sector to ensure 
policies are robust , flexible, and reflect the expertise and experience of all stakeholders.  
Data is increasingly important to increasing the efficiency of biopharma innovation, including in the 
next wave of personalized medicine. Robust, reliable use of AI requires large, representative use of 
protected data sets that are representative of the ap plicable patient population. To stay competitive, the 
United States should develop a national strategy to expand data interoperability , including training AI 
models, as appropriate . These efforts would provide a springboard for private sector investment to  
harness these technologies and drive future innovation. As the Administration considers new policies to 


8 
670 Maine Avenue , SW • Suite 1000 , Washington, DC 20024 • PHRMA.ORG  
address the growing use of AI across sectors, it should take extra care to avoid policies that would 
undermine U.S. AI leadership. Broad stakeholder input from private sector entities that are leading the 
development of these tools will ensure that any policy solutions are balanced and informed.   
AI tools should be responsibly deployed and not further impede access to care  
In addition to establishing guardrails and a robust data infrastructure, we encourage the Administration 
to consider increase d transparency into the extent to which AI tools are used in health care decision -
making. Greater insight into the role of algorithms in utilization management tools  is important to 
ensuring responsible, patient -centered deployment of AI tools . A U.S. Senate report outlined examples 
of how AI and predictive technologies may have contributed to higher volumes of prior authorization 
denial rates for post -acute care by insurers.15 Utilization management tools, which health plans 
sometimes use to inappropriately bar patients’ access to services and medicines, may present increased 
burdens if AI is utilized for decision -making process es without guardrails, which is why it is critical that 
the Administration implements safeguards and accountability measures to protect against impediments 
to health care access.    
PhRMA supports the use of AI as a tool with the shared goal of using AI and deploying AI  tools in a 
safe, responsible manner that supports early care interventions and disease prevention; fosters well -
informed, shared patient -clinician decision -making; and enables patients to obtain access to the care and 
medicines they need more quickly. AI t ools should not interfere with care decisions that have been made 
between a provider and patient.   The application of AI tools should be consistent with usual course o f 
care and held to the same policies and standards  that ensure patient access to services are protected – 
irrespective of care delivery method, whether with sole human involvement or AI was a component.  
Conclusion  
PhRMA and our member companies stand ready  to serve as a resource on the development of AI 
policies. As  this Administration develops an AI Action Plan, we encourage the consideration of the 
following policies to leverage AI tools across the health care delivery system.  
An AI policy framework should:  
•Be sector -specific and not take a one -size-fits-all approach.  The biopharma ceutical industry
diverges from other industries in that it is already highly regulated   therefore, new  AI policies
should be mindful of existing regulations that guide the industry, including those that impact the
use of AI.
15 U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. (2024). Refusal of Recovery: How Medicare Advantage Insurers have Denied 
Patients Access to Post -Acute Care.  Retrieved from https://www.hsgac.senate.gov/wp -content/uploads/2024.10.17 -PSI-Majority-Staff-
Report-on-Medicare -Advantage.pdf .  


9 
670 Maine Avenue , SW • Suite 1000 , Washington, DC 20024 • PHRMA.ORG  
•Leverage existing regulations that already encourage innovation and protect patients. The
current risk-based approach to AI regulation will allow the U.S. to continue to be a leader in drug
development.
•Apply the same standards when determining IP protections whether or not AI was used
during the inventive process.  AI can be a tool used in the discovery of  new medicines, and
inventions resulting from the use of this tool  should be able to be patent protecte d.
Supporting the biopharmaceutical industry through a flexible , risk-based regulatory framework  would 
maintain our nation’s global reputation as the leader in biopharmaceutical development  and innovation 
and significantly enhance American leadership in AI . This is due to the  substantial investment the 
industry has made and the exemplary  ethical use of AI systems  it demonstrates . As the industry that 
accounts for the single largest share of all U.S. business R&D, representing about 20 percent of 
domestic R&D by U.S. businesses in 20 22, the biopharmaceutical industry is p articularly well suited to 
help lead efforts to promote American leadership in AI on a global scale.16 
* * *
PhRMA appreciates your consideration of these comments , and we look forward to continuing dialogue 
with the Administration and other stakeholders on these important issues.    
-----s-------  
Lucy Vereshchagina , PhD  
Executive Vice President,  
Science and Regulatory Advocacy -----s-------  
Jocelyn Ulrich  
Vice President,  
Policy & Research   -----s------- 
David E. Korn  
Vice President,  
IP and Law  
16 National Science Foundation. (2022). Business Enterprise Research and Development (BERD) Survey . Table 32. Retrieved from 
https://ncses.nsf.gov/surveys/business -enterprise -research-development/2022#data .   


