March 14, 2025 
By Email to 
Faisal D’Souza 
Net working and Information 
T echnology Research and Development 
National Coordination Of ﬁce 
National Science Foundation 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314, USA 
Re:   Request for Information on the Development of an Arti ﬁcial Intelligence 
(AI) Action Plan 
Dear Mr. D’Souza: 
Planet Labs PBC (Planet) submits the following comments in response to the 
Administration's Request for Information on the Development of an Arti ﬁcial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan.1  Planet manufactures and operates the largest ﬂeet of 
commercial Earth imaging satellites in the world.  T o help our customers obtain 
value and insights from the terabytes of data that our satellites produce daily, 
Planet and its customers and partners leverage machine learning and AI tools to 
analyze our imagery.  Satellite imagery promises better information about what’s 
happening on Earth, enabling individuals, companies, and governments to make 
better, more informed decisions.  AI tools, applied to our imagery on the ground 
and deployed on our satellites in space, will yield faster, more accurate insights and 
enable more people to reap the beneﬁts of viewing Earth from space.  These 
bene ﬁts depend on the adoption of pro-innovation AI policies that appropriately 
address different levels of AI risk and allow low-risk AI (for example as applied to the 
analysis of satellite imagery data) to ﬂourish with minimal government intervention.  
Planet offers the following recommendations, discussed in further detail below: 
1 Nat’l Science Foundation, Request for Information on the Development of an 
Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan, 90 Fed. Reg. 9088 (Feb. 6, 2025). 
1 


● Adopt a faster, more ﬂexible procurement process for U.S. Government AI use
cases in low risk areas such as analysis of satellite imagery.
● Encourage development and adoption of industry standards and best
practices rather than adopt prescriptive regulations.
● Where laws and regulations are needed, de ﬁne the scope of AI narrowly to
exclude machine learning.
● Focus any regulation on the high-risk use cases and enable robust innovation
to ﬂourish in the low-risk area of satellite imagery analytics.
● Maintain a light-touch approach on regulating the export of products that
utilize AI.
● Focus on transparency in where companies are using AI and how the models
are trained, prompted, or applied.
I.Who is Planet?
Planet is a leading provider of global, daily satellite imagery and geospatial
solutions.  Planet is driven by a mission to image the world every day, and make 
change visible, accessible, and actionable.  Founded in 2010 by three NASA 
scientists, Planet designs, builds, and operates the largest Earth observation ﬂeet of 
imaging satellites.  Planet provides mission-critical data, advanced insights, and 
software solutions to over 1,000 customers, comprising the world’s leading 
agriculture, forestry, intelligence, education and ﬁnance companies and 
government agencies, enabling users to simply and effectively derive unique value 
from satellite imagery.  Planet is a public beneﬁt corporation listed on the New Y ork 
Stock Exchange as PL and headquartered in San Francisco, California.  T o learn 
more visit www.planet.com. 
II.How does Planet use AI with its satellite imagery?
Planet’s archive holds 10+ billion sq km of satellite imagery, with proprietary
datasets back to 2009 and public datasets back to 1972.  And we’re adding more 
every day.  With AI, our customers can make sense of the complexity of such vast 
amounts of data and extract meaningful insights, helping analysts identify 
unknown unknowns in imagery – the critical pieces of information that analysts 
may not even know to look for.  For example, Planet and its customers and partners 
are leveraging AI in the following ways: 
2 


● W e’re already delivering AI-driven solutions today - from ﬁnding newly-built
roads and identifying collapsed or constructed buildings to monitoring
deforestation throughout the Amazon and predicting crop yield potential and
agronomy risks.
Building Detection (magenta) on Planet Basemaps, New Cairo, Egypt 
● In the maritime domain awareness space, we have customers now using our
data to help monitor large ocean areas for illegal ﬁshing vessels, military
activity, or illicit ship-to-ship transfers.
3 


Ship Detection, Singapore Strait, October 8, 2023 
● Our next-generation Pelican satellite is equipped with onboard edge
compute to help rapidly transform our data into insights for customers.  With
AI processing happening in space right on our satellite, we unlock the
potential to automatically identify objects of interest in our data from space
and deliver insights to our customers faster than ever before.2
● Planet's large, unique archive of over 50 petabytes of Earth observation data
offers an untapped resource to train future models, including predictive and
world models.  This has transformative potential to derive meaningful insights
and enable better decision-making.
● Planet is leveraging Vision Language Models (VLMs) such as Anthropic’s
Claude to enable visual question answering about Planet imagery, enhance
site monitoring, and summarize key results.3
3 Press Release, Planet and Anthropic Partner to Use Claude's Advanced AI 
Capabilities to Turn Geospatial Satellite Imagery into Actionable Insights (Mar. 6, 
2025), 
https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20250306606139/en/Planet-and-Anthrop2 Press Release, Planet Labs PBC Announces Real-Time Insights Technology Using 
NVIDIA Jetson Platform (June 10, 2024), 
https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240610385569/en/Planet-Labs-PBC-A
nnounces-Real-Time-Insights-Technology-Using-NVIDIA-Jetson-Platform.  
4 


● Planet has programmatic data access and analysis tools via
application-programming interfaces (APIs) that can enable and support
agentic AI workﬂows for insights extraction.  The Planet platform can enable
users to perform automated tool use and orchestrate complex analysis
workﬂows.
III. U.S. AI policy should enable the growth and development of AI
technology that helps derive value from satellite imagery data while
addressing high-risk areas and preventing export of our most sensitive
U.S. technology to high risk jurisdictions.
T o maintain U.S. AI leadership, the U.S. Government should adopt AI policies
that support innovation and growth in this rapidly developing space while 
addressing high-risk areas and preventing export of cutting edge AI chips to high 
risk jurisdictions.  Critically, efforts to address AI risks should be tailored to the 
speci ﬁc risks at issue and a light touch applied to low-risk AI applications.  Planet 
outlines below its suggestions for inclusion in the AI Action Plan.  
Adopt a faster, more ﬂexible procurement process for U.S. Government AI use 
cases in low risk areas such as analysis of satellite imagery. 
● The powerful combination of satellite data and AI is being adopted by
governments and commercial customers worldwide.  This combination
promises signiﬁcant advantages in the defense and national security space,
among other sectors, and the U.S. Government must do more to keep pace.
● Openness to new commercial AI tools can help both defense and intelligence
and civilian agencies make better use of the troves of satellite imagery data
available to them and extract the critical insights that lead to better
decisionmaking.
● U.S. Government procurement processes and legacy systems do not lend
themselves today to rapid adoption of new technologies like AI.
● Procurement processes take too long and budget cycles are not suf ﬁciently
ﬂexible to adapt to fast-paced changes in AI technology.
ic-Partner-to-Use-Claudes-Advanced-AI-Capabilities-to-Turn-Geospatial-Satellite-Im
agery-into-Actionable-Insights.  
5 


● The U.S. Government should consider the following procurement changes to
increase AI adoption:
○ More agile, faster procurement processes that build in pools of funding
that can be used ﬂexibly for new technology;
○ Focus procurements on buying outcomes (for example, AI-generated
insights) rather than inputs (such as satellite imagery data); and
○ For rapidly developing technologies such as AI, focus procurement
efforts on the commercial capabilities on offer in the marketplace
rather than drafting lengthy government requirements that may not
align with commercial offerings and will slow the process.  U.S.
Government procurements must keep pace with industry innovation or
the United States risks falling behind its peers.
Encourage development and adoption of industry standards and best 
practices rather than adopt prescriptive regulations.   
● As in other fast-evolving areas such as cybersecurity, speci ﬁc and prescriptive
regulations for AI may not be able to keep pace with technological evolution
and may become quickly outdated.  Industry standards and best practices in
AI will be better equipped to keep pace with technology without overly
restricting innovation and will be more responsive to the needs and risks of AI
deployment in particular sectors.
Where laws and regulations are needed, de ﬁne the scope of AI narrowly to 
exclude machine learning. 
● Machine learning tools are not new and should not be the focus of new
AI-focused regulatory initiatives that have been spun up to address the
unique risks of new, generative AI solutions.● Policymakers should de ﬁne AI narrowly for the purpose of crafting any new
laws or regulations so that restrictions focus on new, high-risk generative AI
activities and do not unintentionally sweep in machine learning capabilities
that have long been on the market.
6 


Focus any regulation on the high-risk use cases and enable robust innovation 
to ﬂourish in the low-risk area of satellite imagery analytics. 
● Not all AI tools and use cases present the same level of risk and the
Administration's policy approach should recognize this reality.
● The use of AI for satellite imagery processing and analysis typically should be
considered low risk.  Unlike drone imagery, for example, commercial satellite
imagery such as Planet’s is of insufﬁcient resolution to identify individuals or
their personal identifying information (such as license plates, for example).
● In these circumstances, use of AI to analyze commercial satellite imagery is
low risk and heavy-handed government regulations could stymie innovation
in this nascent area.● T o the extent that some applications of AI to satellite imagery may raise
additional risks (for example, to inform automated decision making in the
national security or critical infrastructure space), any regulation should be
narrowly tailored to address the particular anticipated harms and should not
apply broadly to whole categories of AI software.
Maintain a light-touch approach on regulating the export of products that 
utilize AI. 
● Export controls are an important tool to safeguard U.S. technology and
prevent it from falling into the wrong hands.
● But implementation of these controls imposes great compliance costs on
industry and, in the AI space, risks holding U.S. AI development and
innovation back when international competitors are not subject to the same
restrictions.● Export controls should continue to focus on the newest, most cutting edge
hardware that powers AI and should avoid regulating the export of software,
models, and other products that utilize AI.
● If the Administration nevertheless moves forward with export restrictions on
software, models, or other products that utilize AI, those restrictions should be
clearly and narrowly deﬁned to focus on new, high-risk generative AI activities
and should not sweep in standard machine learning capabilities or low-risk
geospatial data analytics tools.
7 


Focus on transparency in where companies are using AI and how the models 
are trained, prompted, or applied. 
● Although not everything an AI system does will be explainable, Planet
supports setting expectations for AI developers to provide transparency
regarding where and how they are using AI, the origin and quality of datasets
used for training, and how privacy and security are handled.  This will go a
long way toward fostering trust in AI systems.● Regulations or standards in this area should not, however, require disclosure
of a level of detail that would open the AI system to risk of intellectual
property theft or security threats.
* * *
Planet appreciates the Administration’s efforts toward developing an AI 
Action Plan that promotes American leadership in AI.  W e look forward to 
continuing to partner with other companies and governments in advocating and 
implementing responsible and pro-innovation AI policies.4 
Respectfully Submitted, 
/s/ Danielle J. Piñeres 
Danielle J. Piñeres 
Deputy General Counsel & Vice President 
of Regulatory Affairs & Policy 
Planet Labs PBC 
4 This document is approved for public dissemination.  The document contains no 
business-proprietary or con ﬁdential information.  Document contents may be 
reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution. 
8 


