 
 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
Interim President  
Daryl Pritchard, Ph.D.  
Chair 
Lincoln D. Nadauld, M.D., Ph.D.  
Culmination Bio  
Vice Chair  
Lauren Silvis, J.D.  
Tempus  
Treasurer  
Peter Maag, Ph.D.  
BluLake  Ventures, LLC.  
Secretary  
Michael S. Sherman, M.D., M.B.A., M.S.  
RA Capital Management  
Gabrielle Allegri, M.B.A.  
Johnson & Johnson  
Antonio L. Andreu, M.D., Ph.D.  
European Infrastructure for Translational 
Research (EATRIS)  
Dawn Cardeiro, M.S.  
Roche Diagnostics  
Brian Caveney, M.D.  
LabCorp  
William S. Dalton, Ph.D., M.D.  
Aster Insights  
Stephen L. Eck, M.D., Ph.D.  
1cBio  
Helmy  Eltoukhy, Ph.D.  
Guardant Health  
Lori Frank, Ph.D.  
Women’s Health Access Matters  
Sarah Hersey , M.S., M.B.A., R.A.C.  
Bristol Myers Squibb  
Steffan Ho, M.D., Ph.D.  
Pfizer  
Richard Knight  
American Association of Kidney Patients  
James Lillard, Ph.D., M.B.A.  
Morehouse School of Medicine  
Howard McLeod, Pharm.D.  
Clarified Precision Medicine  
J. Brian Munroe  
Bausch Health Companies   
Elizabeth O’Day, Ph.D.  
Olaris, Inc.  
Josh Ofman, M.D., M.S.H.S.  
Grail  
Prasanth Reddy, M.D.  
Cecelia Schott, Pharm.D., M.B.A.  
GSK  
Apostolia Tsimberidou, M.D., Ph.D.  
MD Anderson Cancer Center  
Michael J. Vasconcelles, M.D.  
Frazier Life Sciences  
Jay G. Wohlgemuth, M.D.  
Genesis BioCapital  
Michael Ybarra, M.D.  
PhRMA  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
March 14, 202 5 
 
Faisal D'Souza  
Technical Coordinator  
National Coordination Office (NCO)  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development Program  
National Science Foundation  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
 
Re: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence 
(AI) Action Plan  
 
Dear Mr. D’Souza : 
 
The Personalized Medicine Coalition (PMC), a multi -stakeholder group comprising 
more than 2 00 institutions from across the health care spectrum, thanks the Trump 
Administration  for the opportunity to provide information  on the Development of 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan .1 AI presents opportunities to accelerate 
personalized medicine drug and diagnostic discovery, foster adoption of personalized 
medicine approaches, and improve the patient experience with personalized medicine. 
Implementation of AI can also help address chal lenges to the clinical adoption of 
personalized medicine.  
 
The following comments  share PMC’s Policy Principles on AI, outlining 
recommendations developed  in collaboration with PMC’s Artificial Intelligence  
Working Group . In the appendix , we discuss  emerging and potential uses of AI in 
personalized medicine and related challenges for the use of AI in health care that these 
principles  help address . We encourage the Trump Administration to consider these 
recommendations in developing its AI Action Plan  and to consider how the challenges 
and opportunities for AI in health care may be different from other sectors.  
 
Personalized medicine is a rapidly  evolving field in which physicians use diagnostic 
tests and individual details about a person and their health to determine which 
medical treatments will work best for each patient or use medical interventions to 
alter molecular mechanisms that impact health. By combining data from diagnostic 
tests with an individual’s medical history,  circumstances, and values, health care 
providers can develop targeted treatment and prevention plans with their patients.  
 
Personalized medicine is helping to shift the patient and provider experiences away 
from trial -and-error toward a more streamlined process for making clinical decisions, 
which will lead to improved patient outcomes, a reduction in unnecessary treatment  
 
1 National Science Foundation. Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan . https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025 -02305 . (accessed March 7, 2025).  


2 
costs, and better patient and provider satisfaction. PMC  and its  members are leading  the way  in 
personalized medicine and in developing evidence showing how patients and the health care system can 
benefit from appropriate t esting and tailored treatment as soon as possible during their clinical 
experiences.  
Statement of Neutrality  
PMC’s members may present their own responses to OSTP’s Request for Information on the 
Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  and actively advocate for those positions. 
PMC’s response  is designed to provide feedback so that the general concept of personalized medicine can 
advance, and is not intended to impact adversely the ability of individual PMC members, alone or in 
combination, to submit separate responses to OSTP on this request for information . 
Recommendations for Advancing  (AI) in Personalized Medicine  
PMC advocates for public policies that facilitate broad implementation and uptake of AI to help realize 
its full potential for improving patient access to personalized medicine and making the health care system 
more efficient across disease areas.  The following principles for regulatory oversight of AI, coverage and 
reimbursement of AI, and broad implementation of AI are intended to apply across AI -driven tools and 
technologies that can help advance personalized medicine.  
Regulatory Oversight of AI  
There are many use cases for AI in health care relevant to personalized medicine and, depending on the 
use case, developers may be subject to different regulatory requirements, including those of the U.S. 
Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Office of the N ational Coordinator for Health Information 
Technology (ONC), and the Office of Civil Rights (OCR).  FDA oversight could include the validation of 
algorithms that meet the medical device definition. FDA requirements or scientific review expectations 
may also  apply to information generated by AI such as novel markers, real -world evidence, or synthetic 
data. The right framework for regulatory oversight of AI will ensure confidence in the performance and 
use of AI and mitigate risks to patients while continuing to foster innovation.  
We encourage the Trump Administration to consider the  following recommendations  for regulatory 
oversight of AI  in health care :  
1.Support risk -based, flexible, and predictable oversight : To avoid over -regulation and foster
continued innovation for AI in health care, regulatory oversight should adopt an appropriate risk -
based and flexible approach that ensures predictability. Regulatory oversight should ensure AI
models are trained on app ropriately validated data by specifying technical standards for the
quality and comprehensiveness  of training data, standards to improve the comparability of
reported results, and be comprehensive enou gh to apply to various use cases. In developing a
risk-based framework for oversight, regulators should consider differing levels of explainability
in how AI models arrive at their outputs. Regulators should also allow adaptive regulatory
approaches that a llow for iterative development and continuous improvement of AI -based tools
and technologies.


3 
2.Reflect a total product lifecycle approach:  To assess potential benefits and risks to patients
comprehensively, regulatory oversight should consider a product’s total product lifecycle, from
evidence generation and commercialization, to use by patients and doctors to make health care
decisions. Thi s approach could include the use of real -world monitoring to identify and address
issues or challenges that may emerge with implementation of AI, as well as identify realized
benefits that could expand a product’s  utility and permissible uses.
3.Promote cohesive and harmonized regulatory frameworks:  The adoption of disjointed
frameworks for regulatory oversight will make it difficult for AI developers to manage
compliance with quality and privacy controls.  Regulatory oversight should be appropriate to the
technology and harmonized with other regulatory frameworks the AI may be subject to,
including both domestic and global regulatory frameworks, but only to the extent that such
harmonization would benefit ra ther than inhibit innovation and broader adoption.  Duplicative,
overlapping, and conflicting jurisdiction of regulatory authorities should be eliminated and
avoided.
4.Provide clarity on responsibility for data governance: Regulation should provide guidance on
who is responsible for managing and analyzing data in a way that is standardized and
harmonized. Clarity in data governance and interoperability for AI tools and technologies is
needed to help scale and facilitate thei r use in stratifying patients for personalized medicine.
5.Clarify robust and transparent processes for AI -related data privacy and security:  To
facilitate trust and accountability over how AI is developed and deployed for personalized
medicine purposes, prescribed processes regarding the use, disclosure, confidentiality, integrity,
and availability of patient data should be transparent and rob ust. This can include, for example,
considerations for how to obtain informed consent when it is required; clarification of when it is
not required; how to securely transfer individuals’ personal health information with encryption;
and how to mitigate threats to cybersecurity and data integrity.
6.Mitigate biases in AI: Developers and regulators of AI should prioritize efforts to ensure
training data is reflective of the intended population, mitigate bias, and account for disparities
and other shortcomings in health data throughout the product development lifecycle. AI
algorithms should be transparent in the data they are trained on, and regulators should test for
biases that could impact their real -world implementation.
7.Ensure responsible regulatory agencies are adequately resourced: To effectively regulate
AI-based products, responsible regulatory agencies may need additional expertise and funding.
Such agencies, including but not limited to the FDA, should receive the resources necessary  to
support staffing and technological capabilities related to oversight of AI.
Coverage & Reimbursement of AI 
Existing coverage and reimbursement policies can stifle innovation and create utilization barriers for 
digital health technologies and diagnostic tools that are already available for patients. PMC advocates for 
modernized coverage and reimbursement policies that foster transparency in evidence requirements and 
provide timelier patient access to new technologies that promise to improve patient care. In certain cases, 
legislation may also be requi red to facilitate appropriate coverage and reimbursement. Curre ntly, the  


 
 4 
absence of a formalized reimbursement pathway and consistent payment policy forces providers to weigh 
the benefits of investing in AI against unpredictable policy changes.  
 
We encourage the Trump Administration to consider the following recommendations  for coverage and 
reimbursement of AI in health care :  
 
8. Provide timelier patient access to new technologies through expedited coverage pathways: 
Stringent evidence requirements can delay coverage and reimbursement for novel technologies. 
A temporary -to-permanent coverage pathway should be established that facilitates clinical use 
and evidence collection for novel AI tools. This could be achieved, f or example, by establishing 
a pathway through legislation that expedites Medicare coverage for novel AI -driven diagnostic 
tools and digital health technologies.  
 
9. Enable coverage through new or existing Medicare benefit categories:  Novel digital health 
tools and AI applications are not covered under Medicare when they do not fall into a defined 
benefit category. CMS should adopt a flexible approach when making benefit category 
determinations. Congress should also establish a new Med icare benefit category for digital health 
tools and authorize CMS to cover AI -driven technologies, including AI tools used for screening 
purposes.  
 
10. Provide timely and adequate reimbursement : To incentivize the clinical adoption of AI tools 
and technologies advancing personalized medicine, reimbursement should sufficiently capture 
the value and costs of integrating and using AI technologies in clinical settings. Reimbursement 
levels should be  sufficient to support product developers’ investment in clinical utility studies 
that may be necessary to justify coverage and providers’ investment in AI’s clinical integration. 
Where appropriate, CMS could levera ge existing payment mechanisms , such as a new 
technology add -on payment, or develop new payment or quality incentives to provide timely and 
adequate reimbursement.  
 
11. Leverage AI to measure and improve the quality of health care: Quality measures and value -
based care models present opportunities to incentivize the delivery of higher -quality health care 
throughout a patient’s diagnosis and treatment journey. CMS should integrate and leverage AI to 
improve data capture and analysis under existing value -based care models and quality 
improvement programs, especially models and measures relevant to improving the delivery of or 
patients ’ experiences with personalized medicine.   
 
12. Structure value -based payment models to incentivize the use of AI -driven tools or 
diagnostics: As CMS continues to shift away from traditional fee -for-service reimbursement 
towards value -based payment models, it will be critical to consider different ways that AI 
products and services improve patient outcomes, consider which payment models would 
effectively capture the value of those improvements, and eliminate current impediments for 
certain entities to participate in value -based care models (e.g. exclusio n of laboratories from 
value -based care models due to anti -kickback safe harbor exclusions).  
 
13. Ensure CMS is adequately resourced to clarify evidence requirements: Transparency and 
predictability in evidence requirements can streamline the development of evidence necessary to 
obtain coverage and reimbursement. Policymakers should provide CMS and other federally - 
 


5 
funded health plans  with adequate resources to systematically review emerging evidence and 
proactively clarify coverage and reimbursement requirements for AI tools and services.  
Broad Implementation of AI  
Public policies must facilitate broad implementation and uptake of AI to help realize its full potential for 
improving patient access to personalized medicine and making the health care system more efficient. 
PMC advocates for federal studies, demonstration projects, or programs through entities that can support 
implementation and help generate evidence on the value of integrating AI into health care.  
We encourage the Trump administration to consider the following recommendations for broader 
implementation of AI in health care : 
14.Generate evidence on the value of integrating AI into health care: Policymakers should
support studies that generate evidence on the value of integrating AI into healthcare. For
example, this could include:
a.Studies showing cost -savings generated by the adoption of AI in personalized medicine ;
a.Studies on the clinical utility of novel markers developed using AI (e.g. , digital
biomarkers) and the impact of their use on product development timelines;
b.Studies on the clinical utility of AI -driven diagnostic tools and technologies; or
c.Studies evaluating the impacts of AI on improving patient care, reducing physician
burdens, and lowering health care costs, which could facilitate quality improvement
activities or the development of best practices.
15.Examine challenges and solutions for implementing AI in health care: Policymakers should
support federal studies, demonstration projects, or programs that examine challenges and provide
solutions to integrating AI in health care, including considerations related to interoperability,
data storage, data sharing, scalability, patient privacy, real -world performance monitoring, and
preventing health disparities .
16.Build capacity for implementation of AI in community health settings: Policymakers should
support programs and partnerships that facilitate the integration of AI in community health
settings . This should include, for example, planning or capacity grants that provide an on-ramp
for under -resourced institutions to develop the infrastructure needed to implement AI  and be
eligible for downstream implementation grants or payment incentives around AI. This could
include, for example, the data storage and processi ng infrastructure needed to run AI applications
and promote interoperability.
17.Develop data sets to test and assure the quality of AI implemented at -scale: Policymakers
should support the development of large -scale data sets that improve public and private entities’
ability to assess the quality of AI systems and understand how AI systems can both work and fail
at-scale. These data sets can be used to test for potential failures due to bias or missing
information, assess the comparability of reported results across AI applications, and, thus, help
ensure AI is implemented fairly acros s society.
18.Facilitate the use of AI in clinical trials:  To support the implementation of AI in clinical trials
for participant enrollment  and stratification , policymakers  should support the development of


6 
best practices, public -private partnerships, and provision of resources to providers. Best practices 
could clarify how to use AI for matching patients to trials, optimizing treatment approaches, 
tracking disease progression through analysis of real -world data, stratifying patien ts based on 
biomarker and genetic factors, improving diagnostic capabilities, measuring treatment efficacy, 
and/or measuring adverse events identification and reporting . Policymakers should also consider 
opportunities to provide resources to health care sy stems or providers as part of clinical trial 
costs for implementing AI tools and technologies.  
19.Develop best practices for expert human oversight of AI:  Depending on biases in how data
may be trained and used, AI has the potential to exacerbate barriers that patients can face in
accessing personalized medicine, including barriers created by prior authorization. To ensure
health care decisions appropriately reflect individual patients’ needs and preferences, the use of
AI in health care decision -making must support and supplement, not supplant, human decision -
making, patient preferences, and clinician knowledge. Policymakers should support the
development of best practices for the level of expert human oversight needed in health care
decisions made by providers and payers using AI.
20.Educate and raise awareness among stakeholders: Enhancing stakeholders’ skills and
awareness needed for implementation of AI could improve uptake of AI. Policymakers should
support efforts to educate and provide training to health care providers  and other health care
professionals, oversight bodies, regulators, and payers on implementing AI.
21.Ensure NIH and ARPA -H are adequately resourced: Basic and translational research
conducted by NIH and ARPA -H will play a critical role in advancing progress in the use of AI in
health care and personalized medicine.  The President’s budget request and Congressional
appropriators should include a robust base budget  for each of these agencies  to sustain  the
momentum of current and prospective research projects  on AI, while not supplanting  funding for
other areas of research equally important to advancing personalized medicine .
Conclusion  
PMC appreciates OSTP’s and the Trump Administration’s interest in advancing the United States’ 
leadership in AI  and securing a brighter future for all Americans. We look forward to working with you  
to develop an AI Action Plan  that considers the future role of AI in health and personalized medicine . If 
you have any questions about the content of this letter , please contact me at   
 or David Davenport, PMC’s Director  of Public and Science 
Policy, at 
Sincerely,  
Cynthia A. Bens  
Senior Vice President, Public Policy 


7 
Appendix:  Artificial  Intelligence (AI) in Personalized Medicine  
I. Uses of AI in Personalized Medicine
AI has the opportunity to  accelerate personalized medicine drug and diagnostic discovery, foster 
adoption of personalized medicine approaches, and improve the patient experience with personalized 
medicine. Experts in PMC’s Artificial Intelligence Working Group have identified the following 
emerging and potential future uses of AI in health care to highlight its importance to personalized 
medicine.  
A.Advance clinical research and the development of medical products and services by:
1.Supporting faster identification and assessment of novel measures, biomarkers, or
clinical endpoints
2.Informing enhanced statistical analysis and study design options
3.Screening or pre -screening patients more efficiently
4.Collecting, managing, and analyzing data, such as genomic, imaging or other
information; real -world data (RWD); data from digital health technologies (DHTs); or
in silico clinical trials, in ways that support stratifying clinical trial participants  (i.e.
enrichment strategies)
5.Improving the experience of trial participants to promote retention and
representativeness, such as through DHTs, decentralized trials, or enhanced methods
for participants to receive information about a study
Advances in personalized medicine are driven by improvements in our understanding of the molecular 
basis of a disease. Applying this knowledge may propel more efficient development of new treatments , 
technologies , and services . By administering and processing vast amounts of genomic, imaging, RWD, 
and other information, AI can be used to identify unique molecular patterns, genetic mutations, 
radiographic patterns, and histopathologic features that are associated with a disease,  which can then be 
developed a s diagnostic, prognostic, and predictive biomarkers. AI can also assess novel biomarkers or 
clinical endpoints that enable more precise patient risk stratification in clinical trial designs for new 
treatments. For example, Quibim is using AI and MRI imagin g biomarker profiles in prostate cancer to 
predict responses to androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) and stratify patients at risk for biochemical 
relapse; the tool has the potential to become an imaging -based companion diagnostic tool. AI can 
enhance capabi lities of diagnostic tools in not just cancer , but also  rare and other diseases.  
By helping to screen and pre -screen patients  for clinical trials and predict their responses to therapies 
more efficiently, AI can speed trial enrollment and improve the design and efficacy of clinical studies, 
thereby reducing the time and cost required to complete  clinical trials, as well as improving patient  care. 
AI has the potential to improve the reliability of Phase 1 studies through RWD and in -silico clinical 
trials with synthetic control arms, predict and identify trends in adverse events earlier, and optimize 
dosage adjustments. For example, Lilly’s Ma gnol.AI ™ platform is leveraging wearable sensors to 
monitor treatment efficacy in clinical trials in real time, which can provide a better understanding of  a 
patient’s disease journey. In addition to accelerating trial timelines by obtaining more detailed efficacy 
and safety data faster, AI -enabled platforms can help developers understand how certain patient 
populations respond to a product and design produc ts to maximize beneficial patient outcomes.  


 
 8 
Enrolling sufficient participants in clinical trials has been an ongoing challenge for product developers.  
AI tools can help streamline the process for providers to identify matching trials for patients, or provide 
patients an accessible mechanism to identify trials they can discuss with their provider. Identifying and 
engaging participants  facing health care disparities  is also a challenge. By utilizing AI algorithms to 
analyze public trial registries or other medical record platforms, providers and resea rchers can establish 
advanced capabilities to screen, assess, identify, enroll, and retain trial participants. For example, AI can 
promote broader participant enrollment  by screening  patients for eligibility, extracting protocols through 
natural language processing, identifying clinical trial sites, and providing internal and external support 
service tools. Streamlining these processes, optimizing trial designs, and improving the expe rience of 
trial participants can make clinical trials more accessible to all patient  populations.  
 
B.  Improve health care decision -making and patient care by:  
6. Ensuring appropriate diagnostics are ordered in a timely manner  
7. Advancing techniques to help patients and clinicians understand test results  
8. Ensuring results from diagnostics are used appropriately  
9. Identifying targeted treatment options  
10. Identifying candidates for enrollment in clinical trials  
11. Facilitating timelier patient education and communication, such as about treatment 
options  
12. Monitoring a patient’s treatment journey, such as treatment adherence, progression, or 
signs or recurrence  
13. Aiding patients’ management of their health care, such as supporting patients’ 
identification of appropriate providers, scheduling appointments, and connection to 
peer navigators  
14. Tracking quality measures within health systems relevant to improving personalized 
medicine throughout a patient’s diagnosis and treatment journey, including quality 
measures related to the above  
 
Personalized medicine is helping to shift the patient and provider experiences in favor of more 
streamlined approaches to disease diagnosis, prevention, and treatment, which will lead to improved 
patient outcomes, a reduction in unnecessary treatment costs , and better patient and provider 
satisfaction. Facilitating patient access to personalized medicine through AI can lead to earlier diagnosis 
and health care intervention and help personalized medicine to achieve this vision for patients and the 
health ca re system. Barriers to the clinical adoption of personalized medicine, however, persist. 
Implementation of AI can help address these barriers.  
 
Providers must manage complex and rapidly changing information in science and medicine. By helping 
clinicians select appropriate diagnostic tests, interpret the results, and consider relevant targeted 
treatment options in a timely manner, AI -driven clinica l decision support tools may help enhance the 
clinical use of diagnostics, facilitate more accurate and timely diagnosis, and improve treatment 
selection based on how a patient may respond. AI -driven tools are already available to analyze 
biomarkers and th erapies for cancer patients, and additional tools are being developed to provide real -
time insights for doctors based on a patient’s clinical profile. In the future, with appropriate validation 
and patient safeguards, generative AI tools could facilitate t imelier patient education and communication 
by helping patients to understand information about their diagnosis, genetic profile, and treatment 
options.  
 


9 
AI can also improve patient care by automatically analyzing patient data to match individuals with 
suitable trials. Better patient -trial matching can ensure patients have the greatest chance at finding a 
treatment that works best for them. Although multipl e companies currently offer tools to assist in 
matching patients to clinical trials, their utility likely varies. In the future, AI could integrate real -time 
data from wearable devices and EHRs to dynamically match patients to trials as their health status  
evolves.  
By identifying sophisticated, latent patterns across multiple datasets, such as a patient’s genetic and 
genomic information, family history, social determinants of health, and other information contained in 
their electronic health record, AI can provide a comprehensive understanding of a patient’s condition. AI 
can thus enable more accurate risk prediction, help tailor patient monitoring, and improve prevention 
and early intervention strategies for at -risk individuals. For example, enhanced surveillance and  more 
precise risk assessments of possible genetic disorders can help identify high -risk patients or families 
who would benefit from genetic counseling and personalized medicine.  
II. Challenges in the Development and Use of AI
AI has applications in pre -clinical and clinical settings. PMC’s focus is on ensuring the right framework 
for AI is used throughout the total product lifecycle, from evidence generation and commercialization, to 
use by patients and doctors to make health c are decisions. In developing frameworks for regulatory 
oversight, coverage and reimbursement, or implementation of AI in health care, certain cross -cutting 
technical policy challenges will need to be considered.  
Regulatory Oversight 
AI tools rely on large amounts of data from various sources. These data sources can vary in their quality 
and representativeness. When AI algorithms are neither created nor validated using the same dataset, 
this creates challenges for regulatory bodies lik e the FDA to compare and consistently evaluate tools. 
The sensitivity of an AI tool may not be comparable across applications, and AI models can have 
differing levels of explainability, or transparency into the reasoning behind the model’s output. 
Regulati on of the training data may also be in the purview of other agencies. This lack of standardization 
can complicate and lead to inconsistencies in regulatory oversight, since it is difficult to establish clear 
benchmarks for AI performance across different a pplications. To facilitate predictable regulatory 
oversight and build trust in the quality of AI technologies when used in real -world clinical settings, 
collaborative efforts are needed to create comprehensive and standardized datasets – representative of all 
patient populations – for training and validating AI algorithms , including tests for biases that could 
impact real -world implementation across different health care settings.  
For some AI tools, like generative AI, the technology’s training data and decision -making process can 
be opaque. Training data must be reflective of the intended population and product developers must take 
steps to address bias and account for limitations in health data throughout the product’s lifecycle. Clear 
regulatory process and frameworks that establish or clarify technical standards for the quality and 
representativeness of training data, result reporting, data governance, data sharing, data privacy,  data 
security, transparency, bias mitigation, and informed consent where required will be essential to set 
consistent expectations for developers and build trust among providers and patients in the real -world use 
of AI. Real -world monitoring can also help  track biases and other issues that may emerge with 
implementation of AI, as well as document benefits that could support broader implementation.  


10 
Coverage and Reimbursement  
To recoup investment in developing AI technologies and to provide health systems with adequate 
resources to adopt them, reimbursement must sufficiently capture the costs associated with developing 
and implementing AI tools in healthcare. Coverage and reimb ursement policies, however, often lag 
behind technological advancements, and it can be challenging for novel technologies to develop 
evidence demonstrating clinical utility and/or cost -effectiveness given the time and resources needed to 
conduct studies. T he level of evidence needed to obtain coverage and reimbursement can also be unclear 
and vary from payer to payer.  
Coverage and reimbursement policies for AI tools can also vary depending on the type of technology, 
such as AI -driven in vitro diagnostic tests, companion diagnostic tests, software as a medical device 
(SaMD), or digital health tools. Under Medicare, cover age for AI -driven genetic tests varies by the type 
of test and indication. Digital health tools may not fall into a defined Medicare benefit category and, 
therefore, be ineligible for Medicare coverage and reimbursement. Coverage and reimbursement may 
also not be available for AI tools used for clinical trial matching. Without other incentives, lack of 
reimbursement for adopting these tools could exacerbate existing challenges with enrolling smaller 
patient populations and patients from under -resourced  communities in clinical trials.  
Existing reimbursement policies may also be inadequate to account for the unique investment needed to 
develop AI tools and their value to patients and society. Although eligible for coverage under Medicare, 
some AI technologies may be subject to bundled pa yment, such as certain AI -driven SaMD tools. 
Bundled payment – which provides a single, comprehensive payment covering all of the services 
involved in a patient’s episode of care – may not fully account for the cost of adopting the AI tool or the 
developer ’s investment in conducting clinical utility studies to justify coverage and reimbursement. For 
some technologies, such as AI -driven imaging tests that are validated as SaMD, it is unclear whether 
Medicare would reimburse these algorithms separately. Modernized coverage and reimbursement 
policies that foster transparency, predictability, and adequate reimbursement can provide timelier patient 
access to new AI technologies.  
Real-World Implementation 
Resource and capacity constraints, a lack of awareness, uncertainties around value or best practices, and 
existing health care access challenges all pose potential barriers to the broad implementation and uptake 
of AI. Public policies that provide capacity -building resources to under -resourced institutions, raise 
awareness and provide training to health care providers, or support studies generating  best practices or 
evidence on the value of integrating AI can collectively help AI realize its full potential for improving 
patient access to personalized medicine. Public -private collaborations can also help develop solutions 
for integrating and maximizing the use of AI across disease states, patient populations, and health care 
settings.  
AI applications are more likely to be implemented in large, well -resourced academic medical centers. 
Providing resources that incentivize implementation of novel AI technologies across various health care 
settings can help ensure that patients in under -resourced communities are able to benefit. Cloud -based 
AI platforms can also offer potential solutions by making advanced AI tools more accessible in smaller 
or rural facilities with limited resources. Achieving widespread availability of AI tools regardless of 
geography and facility type can help avoid exacerbating existing health care access barriers .  


11 
In addition, human -related biases and biased data can seep into algorithms during deployment that lead 
to treatment recommendations  that are inaccurate or worsen health disparities . AI models should be 
designed to mitigate algorithmic bias throughout their product lifecycle. Since AI can come to false 
conclusions, AI tools should be used to support, and not supplant, human decision -making. Human 
oversight, transparency in how and wh en AI algorithms are used, and other bias mitigation strategies can 
help ens ure health care decisions appropriately reflect individual patients’ needs and preferences.  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  


