3/13/2025  via FDMS  
Jessamyn Powers -Pidlypchak , no email  
AI cannot and should not EVER be allowed to be trained on copyrighted works - the only logic 
reason for AI companies to desire to is because it would allow them to forgo Ever having to hire artists or writers ever again, which would demolish the American w orkforce and economy in a 
way we have never before seen. It would leave millions of artists to slowly but steadly be cut off from the artistic careers they aspire to, leading to poverty and a substantial decrease on the quality of life for not just them as  creators, but for their would -have- been future audiences. Once 
upon a time, I remember hearing my teachers and other adults in my life praising technological advancement because they believed the goal of American's talented engineers and coders was to automate menial tasks; The dishes, the laundry, other cleaning services, and even more hopefully, difficult and tedious jobs such as construction and factory work. They believed, and told me and my peers so confidently, that that was the future we had to look forward too. A world free of endless, mind numbing work - where we would be able to pursue and share our creative ideas with wide audiences for the enjoyment and entrichment of all. Now, All these "AI" companies want to automate ART, so that people will have more time for grueling work in an trashfire economy, just to try to stay above the poverty line. How is this just? How can you sit there and honestly expect your constituents, the American People, to sit by and allow our futures to be stripped of our freedom to create ART for a living? To turn the task over to robots and codes, soulless and profane? Is that how you would like to treat Humanity's oldest hobby? Is this how we will spit on the graves of our ancestors, by prohibiting our children and grandc hildren 
from nurturing their creative hearts by forcing them to submit anything they make to some greedy CEO to train his plagiarism machines to keep making his own quick bucks? AI should be banned outright - but seeing as that is not what this motion is about, I will settle for this. DO NOT ALLOW AI TO BE TRAINED ON COPYRIGHTED WORKS. It is an insult to humanity on the whole, and this administration will be remembered foully for it if they allow it to occur.  
 


