March  14, 2025  
White House Office of Science and Technology Policy  
C/O Faisal D'Souza, National Coordinating Office  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building  
1650 Pennsylvania Ave NW  
Washington, DC 20502  
Submitted electronically to:  
RE: Request for Information: Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan  
Dear Mr. D’Souza:  
Premier Inc. appreciates the opportunity to submit comments on the Request for 
Information (RFI) on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan, issued 
by the National Coordinating Office for Networking and Information Technology Research 
and Development (NCO NITRD) on behalf of the Office of Science and Technology Policy 
(OSTP) . Premier has deep experience and  longstanding expertise with leveraging AI to 
reduce healthcare costs, improve quality and access, alleviate workforce shortages a nd 
advance high-quality care for communities nationwide . In our comments, Premier 
recommends that the Administration focus its regulatory efforts on the following:  
•Publishing clear guidance on patient consent and other requirements to allow for
the use of AI-generated synthetic control arms in clinical trials ;
•Issuing guidance that supports the  industry -wide transition to AI -powered
advanced process controls and quality monitoring in drug manufacturing;
•Focusing any  future  federal AI algorithm transparency requirements on a
standardized, outcomes -focused set of metrics instead of the “inputs” approach of
“model card” method;
•Working closely with healthcare technology stakeholders to ensure that any data
standards that the federal government codifies align with industry -experienced
best practices;
•Requiring clear labeling of recommended use(s) to mitigate the risk that an AI
algorithm will be applied in a situation for which the model is not appropriate; and
•Supporting t raining  for the healthcare workforce  that combat s automation bias and
incorporate s human decision -making into the use of AI technology in healthcare .
Our recommendations are described in greater detail below.  


OSTP  AI Action Plan  
March 14, 2025  
Page 2 of 7 
 
 I. BACKGROUND ON PREMIER INC.  
 
Premier is a leading healthcare improvement company and national supply chain leader, 
uniting an alliance of 4,350 hospitals and approximately 300,000 continuum of care 
providers to transform healthcare. With integrated data and analytics, collaboratives, 
supply chain solution s, consulting and other services, Premier enables better care and 
outcomes at a lower cost. Premier’s sophisticated technology systems contain robust 
data gleaned from nearly half of U.S. hospital discharges, 812 million hospital outpatient 
and clinic enco unters and 131 million physician office visits. Premier is a data -driven 
organization with a 360 -degree view of the supply chain, working with more than 1,400 
manufacturers to source the highest quality and most cost -effective products and 
services. Premie r’s work is closely aligned with healthcare providers, who drive the 
product and service contracting decisions using a data driven approach to remove biases 
in product sourcing and contracting and assure access to the highest quality products. In 
addition,  Premier operates the nation’s largest population health collaborative, having 
worked with more than 200 accountable care organizations (ACOs).  
 
Premier has a wealth of operational experience leveraging AI technology  to move the 
needle on cost and quality in healthcare, including:  
 
• Premier Clinical Decision Support (CDS) designs AI -enabled technology to reduce 
low-value and unnecessary care. Premier CDS leverages natural language 
processing AI technology to read unstructured data such as physician notes in 
electronic health records a nd ties it together with established practice guidelines 
to generate real -time alerts and relevant analytics, guiding physician’s decisions  at 
the point of care  toward higher -quality, lower -cost healthcare. Premier CDS’s 
mission is to measurably improve th e quality and safety of patient care while 
reducing the cost of care by enabling context -specific information integrated into 
the provider workflow.  
 
• Premier Applied Sciences (PAS) is a trusted leader in accelerating healthcare 
improvement through AI -powered solutions that span the continuum of care and 
enable sustainable innovation and rigorous research. Our services and real -world 
data drive research and quality improvement in pharmaceutical, device and 
diagnostic industries, academia, federal and national healthcare agencies, as well 
as hospitals and health systems. PAS leverages Premier’s robust data resources 
to design and deploy AI -powered solution s for clinical trial recruitment, and to help 
collate disparate patient records to tell a complete patient story, leading to higher -
quality care.  
 
• Conductiv, a Premier purchased services subsidiary, harnesses AI to help 
hospitals and health systems streamline contract negotiations, benchmark service 
providers and manage spend based on historical supply chain data. Conductiv also 
works to enable a hea lthy, competitive services market by creating new 


OSTP  AI Action Plan  
March 14, 2025  
Page 3 of 7 
opportunities for smaller  suppliers and helping hospitals invest locally across many 
different categories of their business.  
•Premier's award -winning  Supply Chain Disruption Manager (SCDM) builds
resilience and mitigates risks to the healthcare supply chain by harnessing
machine learning AI technology to predict when critical drugs, devices and other
medical supplies are anticipated to become unavailab le up to six weeks in advance
of a supply chain disruption. SCDM allows hospitals and health systems to access
clinically approved alternative products to avoid delays in care or quality, and it
allows for communication to federal agencies and other partne rs about pending
shortages to help proactively develop mitigation strategies.
A Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award recipient, Premier plays a critical role in the 
rapidly evolving healthcare industry, collaborating with healthcare providers, 
manufacturers, distributors, government and other entities to co -develop long -term 
innovations that reinvent and improve the way care is delivered to patients nationwide. 
Headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, Premier is passionate about transforming 
American healthcare.  
II.UNLEASHING INNOVATION IN DRUG RESEARCH, MANUFACTURING AND
SUPPLY CHAINS
Premier has noted a recent surge of  interest in patient -facing AI technologies in clinical 
settings, including ambient notetaking, care navigation chatbots and AI -powered 
radiological consultations. However, Premier, our members and others across the 
healthcare sector have been using AI tec hnology to streamline burdensome 
administrative processes for years. Specific use cases include:  
•Harnessing the power of natural language processing (NLP) AI tools to “read”
unstructured data in medical records to efficiently build medical necessity
documentation to expedite prior authorization;
•Overlaying AI chatbots on enterprise resource planning software to help hospitals
and health systems more efficiently identify and manage their needs; and
•Leveraging predictive AI software to sift through large, evolving datasets and
proactively predict supply chain disruptions to prevent disruptions in patient care.
In addition to streamlining many administrative functions in the healthcare secto r – tasks 
that AI has been assisting with for nearly a decad e – there are many applicable  use cases 
for AI technology in drug research, development and production.  
Opportunities for AI in Clinical Trials  
Premier sees particular promise for the use of AI in streamlining processes and expanding 
patient access in clinical trials.  


OSTP  AI Action Plan  
March 14, 2025  
Page 4 of 7 
Identifying trial participants:  One of the biggest challenges facing health systems that 
seek to participate in or enroll patients in clinical trials is identifying and enrolling patients 
in a timely manner. Delays in meeting trial enrollment targets and timelines can increase 
the cost of the trial. AI tools have the ability  to analyze the extensive universe of data 
available to healthcare systems in order to identify patients that may be a match for clinical 
trials that are currently recruiting. This application of natural language processing systems 
can make developing new drugs less expensive and more efficient, while also improving 
patient and geographical diversity in trials to address  generalizability.  
Generating synthetic data : AI, once trained on real -world data (RWD), has the capability 
to generate synthetic data  and patient profiles that share characteristics with the target 
patient population for a clinical trial. This synthetic data can be used to simulate clinical 
trials to optimize trial designs, model the possible effects or range of results of a novel 
intervention, and predict the statistical significance and magnitude of effects or biases. 
Ultimately, synthetic patient data can help optimize trial design, improve safety and 
reduce cost for decentralized clinical trials. Further, synthetic control arms in cl inical trials 
can help increase trial enrollment by easing patient fears that they will receive a placebo. 
To encourage continued innovation, Premier encourages OSTP to work with the 
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on promulgating clear guidance on the 
process for properly obtaining consent from patients for the use of their RWD to 
produce AI -generated synthetic control arms in clinical trials.  
Opportunities for AI in Drug Manufacturing  
Premier sees potential for AI to transform at least three key segments of the drug 
manufacturing process: component supply chain, advanced process control and quality 
monitoring.  
Supply chain visibility: Premier is confident that  the application of AI can advance 
national security by helping build a more efficient and resilient healthcare supply chain. 
Specifically, AI can enable better demand forecasting for products and services, such as 
drug components, through analysis of hist orical and emerging clinical and patient data. 
The ability to understand and react to shortages poses a critical challenge to healthcare 
providers; AI enables better planning and response time to national o r regional 
emergencies. AI can drive better inventory management by automating the monitoring 
and replenishment of inventory levels. Healthcare providers can leverage AI to better 
manage suppliers through faster more efficient contracting processes and by monitoring 
of supplier key performance metrics. As Premier works to combat drug shortages, the 
most effective remedies begin with supply chain visibility and reliable predictions that 
allow manufacturers to plan for and respond to shortages or disruptions – this crucial 
element of the drug manufacturing process presents a key value -add opportunity for AI 
technology.  


OSTP  AI Action Plan  
March 14, 2025  
Page 5 of 7 
 
 Advanced process control: Another significant role for AI in  drug manufacturing is in 
the development and optimization of advanced process control systems (APCs). Process 
controls typically regulate conditions during the manufacturing process, such as 
temperature, pressure, feedback and speed. However, a recent report  found that 
industrial process controls are overwhelmingly still manually regulated, and less than 10 
percent of automated APCs are active, optimized and achieving the desired objective. 
These technologies are now ready to transform drug manufacturing  on a commercial 
scale; however, challenges still remain to widespread adoption. Premier strongly 
believes that the FDA should issue clear guidance that supports the industry -wide 
transition to AI -powered APCs.  Such technologies offer drug manufacturers the 
opportunity to assess the entire set of input variables and the effect of each on system 
performance and product quality, automating plant -wide optimization. This application of 
AI technology can transform th e physical manufacturing of drugs and pharmaceuticals, 
leading to cost -savings and increased resiliency, transparency and safet y in the drug 
supply chain.  
 
Quality monitoring: AI can also provide value -add to drug manufacturing in the field of 
quality monitoring and reporting. Current manufacturing processes provide an immense 
volume of data from imagers and sensors that, if processed and analyzed more quickly 
and efficiently, c ould transform  approaches to safety and quality control. AI models 
trained on this data can be used to predict malfunctions or adverse events. AI can also 
perform advanced quality control and inspection tasks, using data feeds to quickly identify 
and correct product def ects or catch quality issues with products on the manufacturing 
line. Taken together, these capabilities can improve both the accuracy and speed of 
inspections and quality control, helping companies to reliably meet regulatory 
requirements and avoid costly  delays that disrupt the drug supply chain.  
 
 
III. EFFICACY, ACCURACY AND TRANSPARENCY  
 
Premier supports the responsible development and implementation of AI tools across all 
segments of American industry – particularly in the healthcare industry, where numerous 
applications of this technology are already improving patient outcomes and provid er 
efficiency.  
 
Premier strongly supports AI policy guardrails that include standards around 
transparency and trust, risk and safety , and data use and privacy.  
 
Promoting Transparency  
 
Trust – among patients, providers, payers and suppliers – is critical to the development 
and deployment of AI tools in healthcare settings. To earn trust, AI tools must have an 
established standard of transparency. Some policy proposals, including those proffered 
by the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) , 
suggest transparency can be achieved through a “nutrition label” model , which  lists the 


OSTP  AI Action Plan  
March 14, 2025  
Page 6 of 7 
sources and classes of data used to train the algorithm. Unfortunately, some versions 
of the “nutrition label” approach to AI transparency fail to acknowledge that when 
an AI tool is trained on a large, complex dataset, and is by design intended to 
evolve and learn, the initial static inputs captured by a label do not provide accurate 
insights into an ever -changing AI tool.  Further,  overly -intrusive disclosure 
requirements around data inputs or algorithmic processes could force AI developers to 
publicly dis close intellectual property or proprietary technology, which would stifle 
innovation.  
Premier recommends that AI technology in healthcare should be held to a 
standardized, outcomes -focused set of metrics, such as accuracy, false positives, 
inference risks  and recommended use /applications . Outcomes, rather than inputs, 
are where AI technologies hold potential to drive health or harm. Thus, Premier believes 
it is essential to focus transparency efforts on the accuracy, reliability and overall 
appropriateness of AI technology outputs in healt hcare to ensure that the evolving tool 
does not produ ce harm.  
Mitigating Risks  
It is important to acknowledge potential concerns around “hallucinations” and biased 
outcomes resulting from the use of AI tools in healthcare, which carry considerations for  
patient safety. Fortunately, there are several best practices that Premier and others at the 
forefront of technology are already following to mitigate these risks.  
First, we reiterate Premier’s recommendation for standardized, outcomes -based 
assessments of AI technologies’ performance , which would hold developers accountable 
for reporting improper outputs . Premier also supports the development of a standardized 
risk assessment , which should  identify detailed explanations of recommended uses for 
the tool and risks that could arise should the tool be applied  inappropriately.  
Additionally , Premier understands the importance of data standards, responsible data use 
and data privacy in the development and deployment of AI technology. Premier 
encourages the Administration to work closely with developers, vendors and other 
stakeholders to ensure that any data standards that the federal government 
codifies align with industr y-experienced best practices.  Premier also supports the 
establishment of guidelines for proper data collection, storage and use that protect patient 
rights and saf ety. This is particularly important given the sensitivity of health data.  
IV.TRAINING THE HEALTHCARE WORKFORCE OF THE FUTURE
Premier believes technology can and should work alongside and learn from 
healthcare professionals,  but current technology will not and should not replace 
the healthcare workforce.  


OSTP  AI Action Plan  
March 14, 2025  
Page 7 of 7 
To ensure clinical validity and protect patients, Premier recommends clear labeling of 
recommended use(s) and federal support for healthcare workforce trainings that 
combat automation bias and incorporate human decision -making into the use of AI 
technology in healthcare. Automation bias refers to human overreliance on suggestions 
made by automated technology, such as an AI device. This tendency is often amplified in 
high-pressure settings that require a rapid decision. The issue of automation bias in a 
healthcare setting is discussed at length by the FDA in guidance  on determining if a 
clinical decision support tool should be considered a medical device. Premier suggests 
that future guidance or standards for the use of AI should consider automation bias in risk 
assessments and implementation practices, such as workfo rce education and institutional 
controls, to minimize the potential harm that automation bias could have on patients and 
vulnerable populations .  
Premier acknowledges the risks of automation bias and fully automated decision -making 
processes. To reduce these risks, promote trust in AI technologies used in healthcare 
and achieve the goal of supporting the healthcare workforce through AI, Premier 
recommends that healthcare workforce training programs provide comprehensive 
AI literacy training . Healthcare workers deal with high volumes of incredibly nuanced 
data, research and instructions – a growing percentage of which may be supplied by AI. 
This is pa rticularly true for applications of AI in drug development, where manufacturers 
and quality control specialists may be reviewing high volumes of AI -powered 
recommendations or insights and making rapid decisions that affect the safety of patients. 
By ensuri ng our healthcare workers understand how to evaluate the most appropriate AI 
use cases and appropriate procedures for evaluating the accuracy or validity of AI 
recommendations, we can maximize the advisory benefit of AI while mitigating the risk to 
patient s and provider liability.  
V.CONCLUSION
Premier appreciates the opportunity to  respond to this RFI on  topics for the development 
of an OSTP AI Action Plan . If you have any questions regarding our comments, or if 
Premier can serve as a resource on these issues to the Administration in its policy 
development, please contact Mason Ingram, Senior Director of Government Affairs, at 
Sincerely,  
Soumi Saha, PharmD, JD  
Senior Vice President of Government Affairs  
Premier Inc.  


OSTP  AI Action Plan  
March 14, 2025  
Page 8 of 7 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  


