From: Sally Mattison
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Monday, March 3, 2025 2:42:06 PM
I am responding to the RFI on the development of an AI Action Plan.
First, I reject the premise that "the Biden-Harris AI Executive Order 14110 of October 30,  
2023 (Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence)...  
hampered the private sector's ability to innovate in AI by imposing burdensome government  
requirements restricting private sector AI development and deployment."
Second, I question whether "sustaining and enhancing America's AI dominance" is (a) realistic  
(the U.S. doesn't seem to be dominant, after DeepSeek) and (b) a worthy goal. 
Competitiveness, yes; excellence, yes; dominance -- why?  Why must there be a dominator?
With respect to some of the specific policy topics mentioned in the RFI:
a) IP:  the AI Action Plan should be developed with a respect for and recognition of
longstanding copyright laws and policies that make America the global leader in the creative
industries.   Creative industries are an area where the U.S. arguably is still dominant -- in part
because of excellence and variety.   Let's keep it that way.   AI-created works should have to be
labeled as such, and to the extent that AI is used in any part of the creation of a work, thatshould have to be disclosed.
  Any ingesting of copyrighted works for machine learning must
be authorized by the creator , licensed and paid for at a mutually agreeable rate (not per a
contract of adhesion).   It is human creators that need to be supported and protected, not
machines.   It is human creation that other humans long for, not derivative pablum spat out by
machines.   To the extent that companies market AI-created products (such as library music or
artwork), a portion of the profit should be directed to a fund for human creators.
b) energy consumption and efficiency:
AI systems and data centers consume vast amounts of water and energy.   All parts of the AI
supply chain must be immediately re-designed so as to be zero energy and zero water.   All AI
infrastructure should be designed to have a net positive impact  on biodiversity.   There is no
justification for yet another technological "advance" which further wrecks our naturalenvironment.
  All that AI profit will be useless on an inhabitable planet.
c) cybersecurity/data privacy/national security and defenseThe U.S. must be particularly careful about these entwined issues.
  Our nation must work
together with democratic nations to prevent Russia, China, North Korea, Iran and other foesfrom using AI to exploit our nations' infrastructures and our residents' and organizations'security and privacy.
  The precautionary principle should apply.   There must be stringent
rules, clear deterrents, and punishments for those who violate our cybersecurity, data privacy,and national security.
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government


in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution
Priscilla Mattison


