4401 Wilson Blvd., Suite 1110, Arlington, VA 22203  P: F: www.pscouncil.org  March 18, 2025  
NITRD National Coordination Office  
Attn: Faisal D ’Souza, Technical Coordinator  
National Science Foundation  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA  22314  
RE: PSC Comments  on “Request for Information  on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan ” (revised) 
Dear Mr. D ’Souza: 
On behalf of the Professional Services Council (PSC) , I am pleased to submit comments  on the 
National Science Foundation’s (NSF) request for information (RFI) on “Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan ,” as published in the Federal Register  on February 6, 2025 . 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.   
Through this RFI and on behalf of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy , the 
NSF’s Networking and Information Technology Research and Development National 
Coordination Office (NITRD NCO) seeks input to help develop an AI Action Plan that is required 
unde r Executive Order  (EO) 14179, “ Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial 
Intelligence” ; the Plan is to “sustain and enhance America’s global AI dominance in order to 
promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security .”1 The RFI, in 
turn, seeks to gather input from interested partie s regarding how to achieve those goals while also 
ensur ing that related requirements do not hamper private sector AI innovation.2  
As you may know, PSC is an industry association with more than 400 member companies —small, 
mid-sized, and large —that provide much -needed technology and professional services to all 
federal agencies. These companies and their workers throughout America, and around the world, 
are equally as co mmitted to U.S. Government missions as federal civilian and uniformed 
personnel. PSC supports our members and their federal government customers by promoting 
effective government practices and policies, improvements in federal contracting, and constructive  
dialogue between the federal government and industry.  Therefore, the PSC comments included in 
this document focus on the interests of the entire federal government and the role that the federal 
contracting community plays in supporting critical agency mis sions.  
1 Executive Order 14179 - Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence. (2025, Jan 23). 90 
FR 8741. Retrieved from https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg /FR-2025 -01-31/pdf/2025 -02172.pdf .  
2 Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office 
(NCO), National Science Foundation. (2025, Feb 6). Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan, 90 Fed. Reg. 9 088. Retrieved from https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR -2025 -
02-06/pdf/2025 -02305.pdf .


PSC Comments on  RFI on Development 
of an AI Action Plan  (revised)—Page 2 
Of note , in 2023, PSC established  an internal AI Working Group  to support a growing emphasis 
on emerging technologies  in general and AI in particular .3 The working group, which includes 
PSC members and industry leaders in AI, holds monthly not-for-attribution meetings to track 
trends, discuss challenges , share best practices, and develop recommendations on the evolution of 
AI and generative AI (GenAI) within the fede ral context. As the government continues to work 
on its AI Action Plan,  PSC would be happy to facilitate dialogue , as appropriate, on the 
Administration’s AI policies beyond the scope of this rulemaking and explore how the federal 
contracting community can best offer support.   
In general, PSC recognizes that it  is the prerogative of every new administration to ensure that 
programs an d policies align with th at administration’s priorities . On the specific topic of  AI, PSC 
supports the government’s emphasis on fostering competition and innovation within the federal 
marketplace and maintaining U.S. leadership across the globe on AI and other emerging 
technologies . Toward those ends, PSC notes that:  
1)Federal contractors provide significant value and play a crucial role in enhancing the
efficiency of federal government operations and s upporting critical agency missions by
delivering expertise that complements and strengthens federal agency capabilities.
2)By leveraging innovative commercial solutions, federal contractors can streamline
processes and modernize systems, reduc e operational costs , and improv e the customer
experience for millions of American  taxpayers.
3)Creating an environment where federal AI policies empower federal contractors to deliver
cutting -edge technology -driven solutions will also help the federal government  better
address evolving needs  and foster a more competitive environment that supports U.S.
commercial innovation against competitors  in the global marketplace .
Therefore, PSC respectfully offers comments on key AI topics outlined in the RFI, including:  
I.Procurement;
II.Application and use;
III.Explainability and assurance of AI model outputs;
IV.Risks, regulation and governance;
V.Education and workforce;
VI.Export controls; and
VII.Technical and safety standards.
I.Procurement
To ensure U.S. leadership in AI, federal agencies must adopt procurement strategies that enable 
the government to keep pace with rapid technological advancements —leveraging both innovative 
acquisition tools and those based in the Federal Acquisition Regulation  (FAR) . Furthermore , AI 
has the potential to alleviate constraints related to the acquisition workforce (i.e., vacancies, 
workload, training), and acquisition professionals can collaborate with industry partners on ways 
3 Professional Services Council.  (n.d.). Technology and Innovation Council.  Retrieved from 
https://www.pscouncil.org/psc/Councils/e/__p/cc/Technology_Council.aspx?hkey=43021f8b -4d23 -4c57 -a9f0-
33b3ceda7d8e .  


PSC Comments on  RFI on Development 
of an AI Action Plan  (revised)—Page 3 
in which the government can appropriately and successfully integrat e AI into federal acquisition 
process es and enhance efficienc ies (e.g., shortened procurement acquisition lead time s).  
•Recommendation I-1. Look for opportunities to learn and experiment  in areas of
relatively low risk to both age ncies and their industry partners. For example, how can
relevant federal offices identify successful private sector practitioners and establish
structures for monitoring and sharing lessons learned across organizations? W hat are areas
in which acquisition officials can use AI to aggregate information, create communications,
or process large amounts of data ? It is worth noting that given sensitivities related to
business information , the importance of contract award decisions, and the relative
immaturity of training AI to reflect accurately what users intend,  PSC does not recommend
the use of current AI technologies in the federal contract proposal evaluation process.
•Recommendation I-2. Raise awareness  of, and mitigate , potential errors . The current
generation of AI tools have been “trained” (or even “pre-trained” ) using primarily open -
source  data available on the internet. The selection and availability of those training data
leads inevitably to limits of the answers ge nerated. Federal acquisition officials should
understand that while they cannot eliminate the risk of errors in AI -generated responses,
they can take reasonable steps to mitigate such risk. PSC recommends t he federal
government increase awareness of the potential for errors in domains where AI is
being considered for use  and increase public-private dialogue on risk mitigation
strategies and solutions, especially related to GenAI tools.
•Recommendation I-3. Design security into AI . Federal acquisition officials must apply
the same types of security standards and requirements ( e.g., FedRAMP , FISMA , Authority
to Operate  (ATO) ) to AI integrated systems or solutions and G enAI capabilities (i.e.,
generating outcomes or tasks) that are applied to s oftware products or solutions,
particularly if federal government or contractor data are being stored or used. Contracting
officers  (COs) must be diligent, not allowing proprietary or sensitive data to be leaked
using public G enAI tools. PSC urges the gove rnment to enforce this careful application
of standards and requirements to AI tools and further encourages close partnerships
between federal acquisition officials and their agency’s CIO and  / or CISO offices to
find AI solutions that have appropriate security in place.
One particular security consideration area is worth highlighting in response to the NSF 
RFI. To encourage appropriate AI adoption and use across the federal government, 
mechanisms must be put in place to facilitate  ATO  proce sses; current ATO processes are 
costly and time -consuming , and they disincentivize development of AI innovations that 
would benefit the federal government and citizens.  PSC recommends ATO-related 
improvements  to include: (1) preapproved AI security models and reference 
architectures ; (2) fast-track approval pathways for low -risk AI applications ; and (3) 
tiered, risk -based ATO approvals.  These approaches will accelerate development and 
deployment of AI solutions and incentivize experimentation with in novative AI tools, 
resulting in broader use of AI across the federal government.  


PSC Comments on  RFI on Development 
of an AI Action Plan  (revised)—Page 4 
•Recommendation I-4. Experiment with AI tools to assist in market research . In federal
contracting,  market research is a n essential  first step to identify solutions , understand
market trends that can help meet agency needs, evaluate trade -offs, and potentially inform
future requirements. The m arket research  process can be tedious and time -consuming.  PSC
recommends that acquisition officials  consider using secure AI too ls in market
research to augment the acquisition workforce to (1) support better, faster decisions
related to the commercial marketplace; (2) identify capability gaps and identify
solutions; and (3)  identify nontraditional vendors left out of current proce sses (i.e.,
expand the vendor pool). PSC sees market research as an area in which AI tools can
be tested in parallel with, and comparison to , traditional methods.
•Recommendation I-5. Provide c larity on the acceptant use of AI in the procurement
process. Both federal government offices and commercial vendors  will transition to some
use of AI tools; this trend is unavoidable.  PSC encourages open communication,
disclosure, and expectation -setting among all parties on the use of AI tools  in the
federal marketplace . Acquisition officials should be explicit on the acceptability of cases
in which GenAI is warranted (e.g., proposal  drafting ) and should also disclose if G enAI,
or other technologies generally referred to as AI, will be used in the acquisition process.
Importantly,  contracting officers should ask bidders if AI tools are a component of offered
solutions —not to prevent use but to have clear er understanding of proposed solutions.
Specifically,  PSC believes that such policies should differentiate between AI-generated 
content  and AI-assisted efficiency tools , so that AI use for non -substantive enhancements 
(e.g., formatting, grammar, data organization ) are acceptable. Clear, realistic guidelines 
on permissible AI use across the federal government will accelerate and enhance 
procurement processes while eliminating ambiguity.  
Given the current maturity of AI,  PSC recommends that the federal acquisition 
workforce should consistently verify the result s generated by their use of AI tools. 
Those results , especially within the context of the contract evaluation process, should 
never be automatically accepted as accurate  or complete . 
•Recommendation I-6. Standardize AI terminology and best practices. AI and its use can
mean different things to different people —which means there is an imperative to develop
and promulgate generally accepted definitions when discussing AI and AI -related
terminology in the context of federal acquisition. Definitions would mitigate confusion
within government procurement offices and across the federal contracting community.
This can lead to clearer market signal s to industry on appropriate technology investments
to support agency needs. PSC urges clarity in AI terms, including but not limited to AI,
GenAI, machine learning, robotic process automation, and data analytics.
•Recommendation I-7. Incentivize investment in AI innovation . AI has the potential for
significant efficiency gains. The U.S. commercial sector is reaping these benefits by
replacing time -consuming, manual processes with automated routines. However, similar
gains come more slo wly to the federal government , as existing polic ies can inhibit on -
contract innovation. Many federal contracts pay based on hours worked , which does not


PSC Comments on  RFI on Development  
of an AI Action Plan  (revised)—Page 5 
necessarily incentivize contractors to introduce AI solutions that increase efficiency . PSC 
recommends development and promulgation of policies that allow more flexibility on 
the part of federal contractors  and would be happy to facilitate dialogue and 
discussion —where appropriate —between this administration and industry 
stakeholders on formulation of those  policies.  
 
For example, if federal contractors were paid based on outcomes achieved or objectives 
obtained —perhaps using an objectives and key results (OKR) structure or milestone -driven 
payments —they would be incentivized to introduce innovations that r esult in efficiencies 
and produce improved outcomes for the American taxpayer. Additionally, establishing 
clear guidelines for converting existing AI -enabled contracts to outcome -based models will 
help federal agencies adopt this model effectively while mi nimizing risks.  
 
• Recommendation I-8. Eliminate restrictions that  hinder or prevent technical 
collaboration . Rapid advance ment  of AI technolog ies, combined with existing 
procurement policies , makes it more difficult for  federal agencies to acquire the best 
solution s quickly and at the lowest cost . Restrictions that prevent early engagement among 
vendors and government  customers  inhibit evaluation of AI solutions and the exploration 
of alternatives. PSC believes the federal government should consider policies that 
allow for structured pre -solicitation phases and facilitate technical collaboration 
between potential vendors and federal agency stakeholders. This can help to: (1) reduce 
the risk of undefined requirements, which often lead to waste ful contract modifications ; 
(2) ensure that  proposals are more accurate and complete ; and (3) drive federal agencies to 
make more informed procurement decisions.  
 
At the same time,  PSC believes the federal government should also focus efforts on 
current acquisition tools that can support innovation and competition against near -
peer competitors . These include but are not limited to the following:  (1) intellectual 
property  negotiation ; (2) other transaction authorit ies; (3) Adaptive Acquisition 
Framework Pathways ; and (4) Small Business Innovation Research  and Small Business 
Technology Transfer  Programs.  
 
• Recommendation I-9. Prevent model lock-in. Policies should help mitigate AI vendor and 
model lock -in by encouraging flexibility in the use of specific AI models. The foundation 
model ecosystem is changing rapidly. New, powerful proprietary and open -source models 
are becoming available every quarter. To allow federal agencies to take advantage of the 
best technologies, PSC recommends federal government policies should incentivize 
agencies to preserve flexibility and encourage variety in the use of federal contractors 
who can support new , different models and vendors as t hey become available.  
 
The table below includes additional opportunities to use AI in procurement with 
corresponding best practices  
 
Procurement Phase  Opportunities and Best Practices  
1. Developing Mission 
Needs • Collating, summarizing, and organizing large amounts of data and 
information may be a good starting point for using AI.  


PSC Comments on  RFI on Development 
of an AI Action Plan  (revised)—Page 6 
•AI tools should not be used for “down selecting” but should be
used for information gathering, requirements refinement, and
other efficiency -oriented steps.
•AI tools may not have been trained on the full set of agency needs,
so at this time AI is just one input.
•Acquisition officials should communicate their anticipated use of
AI to their CIO for part of a larger set of agency requirements.
2. RFP Development •AI could be used to refine a draft of PWS scope and requirement
statements, based on a library of past RFPs and requirements
documents.
•This is a starting point for agency personnel to refine
and tailor these generated requirement statements to
better fit t he scope of their acquisition. Industry can
also help if the agency is willing to publish their draft
RFQ for industry comment through an RFI process.
3. Procurement
Process with Industry•AI could be used to help organize and answer Q&A, but answers
need to be closely reviewed  for accuracy and context.
•Group submitted industry questions into categories using AI.
Consider a large acquisition that has dozens or hundreds of
interested industry partners. The contracting office can be
inundated with hundreds of  questions. AI could group these
questions into categories and identify similar or duplicate
questions. These categorized question sets can then be more
efficiently distributed to the right stakeholders for more rapid
answers.
4. RFP Evaluation •Evaluating  RFP is a complex and nuanced process. The industry
is not ready for AI to be used in this way. The federal government
can initiate discussions as th is evolves.
•Federal a gencies could start with RFI or market research
aggregation and summarization as a sta rting point. Since the RFI
is not a contractually binding document and does not necessarily
imply that a contract will be awarded, this mitigates the risks of
applying AI, while still providing value to contracting offices in
their acquisition lifecycle.
5. Post Award •AI can be used to refine communications with vendors and
navigate  onboarding processes.
II.Application and use
AI applications encounter obstacles as many citizens are unfamiliar with underlying technolog ies 
and wary of potential risks. To drive adoption and maintain America ’s leadership in AI, policy 
actions must effectively address these concerns.  
•Recommendation II-1. Facilitate access to AI resources and data. The quality of AI
outputs is largely a question of data, both the training data and the data available for


PSC Comments on  RFI on Development  
of an AI Action Plan  (revised)—Page 7 
analysis and computation. Currently, AI innovation in the federal government is 
constrained by the lack of data sharing between , and among , federal departments and 
agencies . To innovate fa ster, this must change.  
 
PSC recommends the federal government  encourage broader AI application and use 
by promoting the sharing of data held by federal departments and federal agencies, 
especially data that is not subject to  IP or privacy restrictions.  This will provide other 
federal agencies, private industry, and researchers with valuable resources for developing 
new AI capabilities and technologies, especially in critical fields like healthcare. Modern 
approaches to data transparency and  integration will allow AI solutions to reflect the full 
potential of the federal government and industry partners. This will increase confidence, 
improve the quality of AI results, and encourage broader adoption.  
 
• Recommendation II-2. Encourage responsible AI . In critical sectors like healthcare, 
finance, and transportation, risks must be carefully managed  because errors can lead to 
negative outcomes for intended communities. To mitigate these risks, guidelines for 
responsible AI must be developed  and enforced. AI has the potential to improve outcomes 
and drive efficiency, but to ensure that potential is realized, American taxpayers must have 
confidence in the AI systems that are developed and used. Accordingly,  PSC urges the  
federal government to encourage the development of guidelines and regulations for 
responsible development and use of AI systems.  A balanced approach to regulation 
will increase confidence, accelerate adoption, and promote the necessary innovation 
to keep the U.S. in its global leadership position . (See Section IV. Risks, regulation and 
governance)  
 
 
III. Explainability and assurance of AI model outputs  
 
The reasoning processes of AI systems are regularly criticized as opaque. The lack of 
explainability discourages adoption and use, ultimately limiting innovation and endangering 
America’s lead in this important field. Policies can be tailored to stimulate innovation while also 
increasing explainability. This will spur adoption and encourage further innovation.  
 
• Recommendation III-1. Standardiz ing explainability metrics. PSC recommends the 
federal government  collaborate with private industry to develop industry -wide 
standards for measuring and reporting the explainability of AI models.  This will move 
explainability from a qualitative discipline to a quantitative one. With measurable 
standards, the transparency and interpretability of AI systems will increase, encouraging 
broader adoption and use.   
 
Some tools, like Local Interpretable Model -agnostic Explanations  (LIME ) and SHapley 
Additive exPlanations  (SHAP ), are already being used to provide insights into model 
predictions. These too ls are examples of how to provide greater transparency into AI 
outputs and illustrate a path forward. However, the lack of standardized metrics for 
explainability poses challenges in comparing and validating AI models across different 


PSC Comments on  RFI on Development 
of an AI Action Plan  (revised)—Page 8 
applications and indu stries.  Federal g overnment encouragement for industry -wide 
standards will address this challenge.  
•Recommendation III-2. Invest in explainable AI  research. PSC urges development and
promulgation of p olicies that support research efforts to develop inherently
interpretable AI models and improve existing techniques for model explainability.
Such  a strategic investment can accelerate adoption and use of AI solutions in the essential
fields of healthcare, finance, and  autonomous systems, where understanding the rationale
behind AI decisions is crucial.
DARPA ’s Explainable AI (XAI) program is a leading example of work in this field. It aims
to create AI systems whose decisions can be understood and trusted by human users. Policy
should encourage additional programs and avenues of research in this area so that  the
federal  government and private industry can collaborate on alternative approaches and
pursue multiple promising pathways in parallel.
IV.Risks, regula tion and governance
As the federal government explores ways to maximize AI’s full potential while mitigating the 
associated risks through guardrails, PSC advocates for governmentwide implementation of 
safeguard protections based on baseline standards but also tailored to a given agency’s mission 
and requirements. PSC’s recommendations below focus on the appropriate use of AI foundation 
models by federal agencies and how federal operators or deployers should manage commercially 
developed AI products and ser vices within the federal environment.  
•Recommendation IV-1. Keep humans in the loop . Like humans,  AI is prone to errors.
Since AI risk factors can be mitigated, PSC urges federal officials to consider appropriate
threshold s for AI —especially GenAI —to be adopted in line with mission s (e.g., when and
how should humans monitor, supervise, and support operations alongside AI and GenAI
in the federal context ?)
PSC recommends that the federal government consider a “human in the loop ”
approach towards AI and GenAI as a more practical method to address negative
externalities and that “fail -safe” mechanisms should only be used as a last resort.
Agencies can embed an d standardize this approach , where appropriate, for general use
applications and can tailor  it for specific national security applications.
•Recommendation IV-2. Monitor human involvement of commercial GenAI . Relevant
stakeholders should consider how best to incorporat e GenAI governance and oversight
structures for monitoring purposes. PSC has concerns about the legal exposure that
commercial vendors could assume after their AI or GenAI products and services are
procured by the federal gov ernment ( e.g., who assumes risk once foundation or fine -tuned
models are brought into a federal environment and run against federal data?)


PSC Comments on  RFI on Development  
of an AI Action Plan  (revised)—Page 9 
PSC recommends establishing governance protocols that protect propriety 
information from unauthorized access or usag e (i.e., govern how federal operators 
interact with data when using AI and GenAI technologies) . Governance protocols can 
establish steps to inform federal operators on: (1) identifying the provenance of the 
data; (2) how data should be cleaned and labeled; and (3) who has authority to access 
and run the data through the model.  Once these steps are est ablished, they can provide 
justification for federal operators’ specific prompts.  
 
Moreover, a n overall governance mechanism can provide value in terms of: (1) how the 
federal government is using AI —especially GenAI; (2) the benefit or value applied to the 
federal government; (3) the return on investment and how that return is measured; and 
(4) the risk profile and how that risk is measured. Governance mechanisms can also help 
Chief A I Officers, or other appropriate  officials , with data collec tion and assurances that 
that GenAI models are being used correctly.  
 
• Recommendation IV-3. Determin e appropriate AI Use Cases. A December 2023 report 
of the Government Accountability Office stated, “Without accurate inventories, the 
government's management of its use of AI will be hindered by incomplete and inaccurate 
data.”4 The appropriate identification of AI Use Cases and completed inventories will 
support the appropriate safeguards, guardrails, and use of AI and GenAI in the fed eral 
context ; those inventories can support innovation  and help federal agenc ies assess AI 
maturity levels and determine which u se cases could work for specific mission challenges.  
 
To help guide federal agencies on how to move forward, particularly with GenAI, 
PSC recommends providing guidance on the categories of GenAI Use Cases that are 
low risk.  While the AI Use Case inventories offer benefits, they are tailored to each federal 
agency. Providing categorized AI Use Cases will help fede ral agencies better understand 
the types of scenarios they can confidently pursue to address challenges.  
 
PSC also recommends establishing a coordination council between industry and the 
federal government to : (1) monitor AI Use Case inventories; (2) iden tify inaccurate 
use cases; and (3) provide specific guidance for assessing a use case’s impact on risk. 
 
 
V. Education and workforce  
 
The integration of AI tools and technologies into federal workforce training and federal agency 
functions can increase efficiencies across the federal government, leading to better outcomes for 
the American taxpayer. It can streamline federal operations an d improve decision -making through 
faster data processing, which can prompt informed and more focused analysis.  
 
However, the federal government must address longstanding workforce challenges —such as 
bureaucratic hiring processes, competitive pay issues, i ncreasing demand for specialized skills —
 
4 Government Accountability Office. (2023, December  12). Artificial Intelligence: Agencies Have Begun 
Implementation but Need to Complete Key Requirements (GAO -24-105980). Retrieved from 
https://www.gao.gov/products/gao -24-105980 .  


PSC Comments on  RFI on Development 
of an AI Action Plan  (revised)—Page 10 
that could complicate the rapid integration of AI technologies into the federal workforce. These 
challenges include training, reskilling, upskilling, as well as hiring and retention efforts.  
At the same time, to int egrate AI into agency culture and effectively leverage the federal workforce 
for AI -driven needs, federal executives must also embrace and implement cultural changes to drive 
AI awareness at the federal agency level. Implementation of AI policies and guidance only works 
if the federal workforce acquires the necessary skills, experience, or understanding to apply, 
identify, and operate AI -enabled technologies and solutions to support agency missions.  
•Recommendation V-1. Broaden AI awareness and skills training.  In-depth training
should focus on  the following:  (1) basic education , including AI concepts ; (2) data
management and analysis ; (3) natural language processing ; (4) coding and programming ;
(5)AI risk management policies  and training , to include a cybersecurity component ; and
(6)interagency communication / collaboration skills ( e.g., communicating with people
with different AI backgrounds, knowledge , expertise) .
•Recommendation V-2. Identify AI “early adopters.” Identifying early adopters, or
stewards, of AI within federal agencies is critical for peer -to-peer learning  between staff
and subordinates. Early adopters within federal departments and  agencies can serve as
champions of AI technologies, h elping to drive adoption and build internal expertise. By
fostering a culture of collaboration and knowledge sharing, early adopters can act as
resources for others within the respective federal department or agency  (e.g., providing
guidance, support, and best practices for integrating AI solutions into critical mission and
other operational needs ). This approach can accelerate AI adoption and strengthen the
overall capability of a federal workforce to adapt to evolving technological demands an d
to work side -by-side with federal contractors in a meaningful and efficient manner.
•Recommendation V-3. Explore s kills-based hiring and nontraditional workforce
approaches . Federal agencies should explore nontraditional workforce approaches,
emphasizing skills -based hiring over traditional degree -based requirements to attract a
diverse AI talent  pool. By focusing on demonstrable skills rather than formal education
credentials,  federal agencies can tap into a broader talent pool, including individuals in
geographically diverse areas and with nontraditional career paths. This shift would ensure
that federal agencies are able to recruit individuals with the specific, practical ski lls needed
to implement AI technologies effectively. Additionally, leveraging nontraditional
workforce approaches such as remote work or contract positions can offer greater
flexibility and access to a global talent pool, enabling federal agencies to quick ly adapt to
the fast -paced advancements in AI.
VI.Export controls
Managing and implementing export control measures on high -end semiconductor chips, 
technolog ies, and manufacturing equipment is becoming increasingly crucial as the federal 
government seeks to regulate the global flow of crucial software, hardware, and IP in order to 


PSC Comments on  RFI on Development  
of an AI Action Plan  (revised)—Page 11 
safeguard American interest s, maintain its competitive edge against near -peer compe titors , and  
lead globally on AI innovation.  
 
The recent revelation  that Chinese commercial entities are performing similarly to American 
companies could challenge America ’s aspirations for future technological dominance. As 
competitors develop more sophis ticated AI capabilities, it will become increasingly difficult for 
the federal government to maintain exclusive access to these critical innovations —while managing 
the risks of technology leakage, the circumvention of regulations and export control measure s—
without inhibiting innovation by American and allied partners.  
 
• Recommendation VI-1. Strategically apply export controls to safeguard innovation . The 
federal g overnment must remain thoughtful in applying export controls on high -end 
semiconductor chips, technolog ies, and manufacturing equipment. However, there are 
industry concerns that unnecessarily burdensome restrictions may drive partner countries 
to seek collaboration with competitors (e.g., China). PSC recommends that the 
government: (1) carefully consider the potential impacts of the Department of 
Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security’s interim final rule, “Framework for 
Artificial Intelligence Diffusion,”5 particularly regarding overly restrictive 
regulations that could stifle innovation among America’s allies and partners  and 
(2) reissue this rule as a proposed rule to allow updated, timely industry comments .  
 
 
VII. Technical and safety standards  
 
As America competes globally for AI dominance in R&D investment and in the fielding of AI -
related products, services, and systems , there is a leadership role for the  federal government in 
coordinat ing global efforts on the development and implementation of A I consensus -driven 
standards. This approach can leverage the government’s polic ies, technical standards  and 
frameworks , institutional and scientific know -how, established legal and regulatory ecosystems , 
and ability to coordinate with allies and partners o n emerging technologies . 
 
• Recommendation VII-1. Support g lobal AI standards development and implementation . 
While such a global leadership role can be led by various  federal departments and agencies, 
the Department of Commerce’s National Institute of Stand ards & Technology ( NIST )—as 
a standards development body —is well -suited to influence this space through a committee 
structure  and coordinated efforts between the federal government and the private sector 
(including the many standards development organizati ons accredited by the American 
National Standards Institute on standards creation and implementation .)  
 
• Recommendation VII-2. Develop adaptive regulatory frameworks . PSC encourages 
development of new , and continued use of current , regulatory frameworks that can adapt 
to the rapid pace of AI innovation . The AI Risk Management Framework  (RMF) , along 
with its GenA I Profile, is an  example of a standard that manages AI risk and provides a 
 
5 Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security . (2025, Jan 15). Interim final rule; request for  
comm ents - Framework for Artificial Intelligenc e Diffusion. 90 Fed. Reg. 4544. Retrieved from 
https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR -2025 -01-15/pdf/2025 -00636.pdf .  


PSC Comments on  RFI on Development 
of an AI Action Plan  (revised)—Page 12 
foundation for gov ernance while stimulating , and not stifling , innovation. Developing 
standardized frameworks for AI performance and risk assessment can enhance innovation 
by providing clear guidelines without imposing restrictive regulations. This approach 
ensures that AI applications are effective and reliable, supporting the Administration's goal 
of maintaining global AI dominance. PSC recommends application and continued 
enhancement of NIST’s AI RMF and similar frameworks to ensure effective risk 
management with AI solut ions. 
•Recommendation VII-3. Leverage trade associations in global AI standards
development . NIST  should clearly  identify and create a mechanism for diverse entities to
engage in standards development regarding AI. This can support NIST’s efforts to bring a
variety of entities into the global AI standard s process. Specifically, PSC believes that there
is a role for U.S. trade associations in development and implementation of AI global
standards, primarily as thought leaders and as a bridge between the AI standards ecosystem
and the commercial sector. NIST can expand upon industry’s role and the types of industry
organizations that can inform the standards process to drive consensus .
______________________________________________________________________________  
PSC appreciates the Administration’s willingness to engage with industry on a range of issues that 
are impo rtant to our nation’s security, defense, and economic well -being, including the National 
Science Foundation’s request for information regarding an AI Action Plan. This engagement is an 
iterative process that would clearly benefit from more forums for open dialogue and discussion. 
As an industry association representing these businesses, we at PSC look forward to continued 
engagement and would be happy to facilitate such dialogue and discussion, as appropriate.  Should 
you have any questions, please feel fr ee to contact me at  Thank you for 
your consideration.  
Sincerely,  
Stephanie Sanok Kostro  
Executive Vice President for Policy  


