Purdue University Response to the Office of Science and Technology Policy 
Request  for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action 
Plan  
March 15, 2025  
Discla imer  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government 
in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.


Physical AI  is a Critical Component of U.S. AI Innovation 
Execu tive summary  
Purdu e University  welcome s the opportunity to respond to Request for Information on the 
development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (Plan).  
Purdue  recommends the Administration establish physical artificial intelligence  (physical AI) as 
a central theme  in the Administration’s approach  to AI and  include physical AI  in the Action 
Plan.  Physical AI  is a burgeoning field that refers to the science, engineering and 
implementation of  AI systems that are embedded within, and strongly interact with, elements 
of the physical world . Physical AI holds tremendous potential to boost U.S. global economic 
competitiveness, advance U.S. national security interests , and support other sectors that have 
strategic importance to this nation.  
Purdue  established physical AI  as a university -wide strategic priority in 2023, when President 
Mung Chiang and the Board of Trustees launched Purdue Computes , a multi- disciplinary 
initiative focused on p hysical artificial intelligence , quantum  science , semiconductors , and 
computing . As part of Purdue Computes, t he university has established an Institute for Physical 
Artificial Intelligence , invest ed in AI infrastructure, hir ed high -caliber  faculty , and leveraged 
pre-existing research centers  to incorporate AI -related topics into their activities . Across 
campus, research ers and students are engaged in innovative research and development  (R&D) 
and data collection to develop physical AI  applications in nuclear energy , precision agriculture, 
pharmaceutical  manufacturing , edge AI systems, smart transport ation , and autonomous 
systems, plus other areas . 
Purdue ’s response (a) highlights the university as a leader in physical AI  in areas  of strategic 
importance to America, (b) present s three case  studies  on nuclear energy, digital and precision 
agriculture, and pharmaceutical engineering and manufacturing  to illustrate how  physical AI  
can deliver tangible value  in the real world , (c) identifies cross -cutting challenges and gaps that 
will need to be surmounted to deploy  physical AI  at scale  and to realize its full potential, and (d) 
recommend s policy actions  for the Administration to consider in the Plan to sustain and 
enhance America’s AI dominan ce. 
AI Ac tion Plan Recommendations  
To su pport U.S. leadership in AI, bolster American economic competitiveness, advance national 
security interests , and prepare the U.S. workforce for AI -related jobs, Purdue recommend s the 
following actions : 
1.Establi sh Physical AI as a F ocus of t he AI Action Plan .
2.Support the Development of Data Infrastructure for Physical AI that enables Secure
Collaboration between the Public and Private Sectors.


3.Enhance Computing Connectivity among Research Hubs in Academia, Government and
the Private Sector to Advance Cross sector Collaboration for Physical AI Applications .
4.Advance Targeted, Goal -oriented Physical AI R&D across Federal Science Agencies .
5.Establish a Federal Task Force to Strengthen AI Workforce Development.
Purd ue University: A Leader in P hysical AI  in Areas of Strategic Importance to America  
Artificial  intelligen ce is  generating significant interest and excitement. The U.S. is leading the 
charge to integrate AI into society, but other nations  have AI ambition s and have launched 
initiatives to upgrade their respective AI capabilities and resources. This is especially true in 
China, which  views AI as a crucial area of technological innovation . Chinese leaders have 
identified AI as an area of vital strategic importance, calling for redoubled investment and R&D 
in AI and other emerging fields such as quantum technology, biotech nology , and the 
development of new materials.  A new state -sponsored venture fund is expected to raise $138B 
to advance Chinese domestic AI capabilities1. Chinese AI companies like DeepSeek and Manus 
AI have launched “traditional” AI models rivalling those of  U.S. compani es. The American 
Foreign Policy Council estimates  China aspires to  lead the world in AI innovation by 20302. 
Phys ical AI  is emerging as the next staging ground for geopolitical competition  on AI , as 
governments, industry, and other stakeholder s realize  physical AI  has the potential to generate  
significant  economic effects . If America adopts physical AI  as a cornerstone of the nation’s 
approach to AI, with policies and programs to promote physical AI , the country can set the tone  
in this field , as it has for  digital or “traditional” AI.   
Physi cal AI  refers to the science, engineering and implementation of AI systems that are 
embedded within, and strongly interact with, elements of the physical  world. Physical AI  lives 
at the intersection of the virtual realm and the real world . Unlike “traditional” AI, 
circumscribed to digital domains (e.g., data analytics or computer vision), physical AI  enables 
autonomous interactions in real -time with tangible items such as people, crops, manufacturing 
assembly lines , military assets, city streets, sensors and hardware. Amid the underlying data 
and advanced algorithms, physical AI  is intrinsically connected with its human users and the 
diverse socio -technical systems that guide their interactions.  Physical AI  is an emerging field ; 
innovation and advancements in phys ical AI  would boost U.S. global economic competitiveness 
and advance U.S. national security interests.  
Phys ical AI  has widespread application in strategic sectors  important to American interests . In 
national defense and military contexts, where autonomous systems and robotics already are playing critical roles, physical AI  can elevate performance. P hysical AI  can be used to make the 
nation’s nuclear energy facilities more resilient  and secure . In agriculture, physical AI  can be 
1 China announces high-tech fund to grow AI, emerging industries | CNN Business  
2 Defense_Technology_Briefing_ -_Issue_26.pdf  


deployed to improve production , food safety , and the health of crops  and animals . In 
commerce, physical AI  can be used in supply chains to reduce foreign dependencies and 
chokepoints, and to achieve efficiencies and cost -savings in advanced manufacturing. In sum, 
physical AI  has the potential to stimulate innovation across  multiple  economic sectors. The 
depth and breadth of opportunities that physical AI  can unlock warrants significant attention 
and support from the Administration and other stakeholders.  
As not ed above, i n 2023, Purdue launched Purdue Computes , establishing physical AI  as a core 
priority across the institution , unifying activities, marshalling preexisting assets, and investing in  
faculty to  create new centers  focused on the application of physical AI in manufacturing, 
transportation, microelectronics, agriculture, science, health and robotics .  
Physic al AI  is recognized as a growing field, distinct from digital- only domains, and important t o 
pursue in parallel to continued advancements in digital  AI. Although Purdue has been an early -
mover in this field , other parties are  beginning to champion the value  of physical AI . Earlier this 
year, NVIDIA founder and CEO Jensen Huang indicated physical  AI will “revolutionize the $50 
trillion manufacturing and logistics industries. Everything that moves – from cars and trucks to 
factories and warehouses – will be robotic and embodied AI.”3 Forbes wrote “[a]s physical AI  
matures, entire industries, from manufacturing to agriculture, may transform fundamentally, 
with autonomous systems handling most routine physical tasks,” adding “organizations that navigate these strategic considerations thoughtfully, will gain competitive advantages from  
physical AI  adoption.”
4 
Although  physical AI  awareness is growing, the field remains nascent ; its meaning and contours 
are still being determined. NVIDIA, for example, characterizes physical AI  as enabling robots 
and self -driving cars to perform actions in the real world, interchanging the term with 
‘generative physical AI ’. Forbes  writes that physical AI  is evolving industries via “embedded 
intelligence,” transitioning AI from “purely digital systems” to “intelligent machines that interact with the real world .”
5 
As a land g rant research university, Purdue is pioneering physical AI  applications that solve 
complex, real -world problems, leveraging signature strengths in materials science, engineering, 
agriculture, microelectronics, compu ter science, life sciences, and applied R&D . Purdue is 
ranked in the top 10 for  Engineering and Agriculture graduate and undergraduate programs , 
and has the largest undergraduate STEM enrollment in the U.S. The university has a 
longstanding reputation for discovery and translat ion of  research into application s, ranks 4th in 
the nation  among universities for patents  received ,6 and is regarded as one of  the most 
innovative universities7 in the nation . Through concentrated research and scholarship , Purdue 
3 NVIDIA Expands Omniverse with Generative Physical AI | NVIDIA Newsroom  
4 How Physical AI Transforms Industries Through Embedded Intelligence  
5 How Physical AI Transforms Industries Through Embedded Intelligence  
6 Purdue Computes  
7 2025 Most Innovative National Universities | US News Rankings  


is making great strides to toggle “between the bytes of AI and the atoms of growing, making 
and moving things.”8 
Several  examples of Purdue ’s leading -edge AI capabilities and other pertinent resources : 
•The Purdue Institute for P hysical AI  is convening scientists across the u niversity to
facilitate interdisciplinary thinking and leverage physical AI  to solve difficult challenges.
•Gautschi AI, a supercomputing community cluster , debuted at No. 7 among U.S.
universities and is in the top third of the world’s most powerful supercomputers.
•The Center on AI for Digital, Autonomous and Augmented Aviation  is build ing drone
swarms for military superio rity and other applications which reduce dependence on
visual line-of-sight operation and increase the number of drones a  single  operator can
control.
•The Purdue UAS Research and Test Facility  is the world’s largest indoor motion capture
facility  where u sers can fly several types of drones, including fixed -wing, in a safe space
protected from weather.
•The Institute for Control, Optimization, and Networks  where researchers  focus on the
integration of AI and with classical approaches to control, optimization, and networks  in
areas such as autonomous vehicles, precision agriculture, space autonomy and more.
Purdu e is pursuing physical AI in other areas  also—e.g., microelectronics, advanced/  quantum 
computing , and robotics —that may be value to the  Administration and the AI Action Plan. More 
detailed capabilities related to nuclear energy, digital and precision agriculture , and 
pharmaceutical engineering and manufacturing , are presented  below.  
Purdue Case Studies  Demonstrating the Tangible Value o f Physical AI  
Purdu e’s physical AI  activities, directed toward solving real -world challenges , align with the 
strategic priorities of the U.S. government. For example, the university is developing  physical AI  
to support growth and innovation in critical infrastructure sectors  like nuclear en ergy , 
agriculture , and pharmaceuticals. To outperform global competitors, American industries will 
need to integrate autonomous systems into their respective operations  to enhance productivity 
and drive economic growth.  The case studies  below  on (1) nuclear energy, (2)  digital and 
precision agriculture , and (3) pharmaceutical engineering and manufacturing , illustrate how  
physical AI  can be used to advance U.S. economic competitiveness and national security .  
1.Nucle ar Energy
Advanc ing nuclear power is a priority for the Trump Administration. This was made clear in the 
President’s Unleashing American Energy Executive Order , and in Secretary Wright’s first 
Secretarial Order.  To support this mission, Purdue’s n uclear engineering  program is building 
autonomous nuclear systems --critical  for national security, the electric  grid, space and military 
8 Purdue announces 3 -pronged ‘Purdue Computes’ initiative: Propel Computer Science to the nation’s top 10, launch the 
Institute of Physical AI and expand semiconductor facilities - News  


operations --leveraging two essentially peerless facilities, the PUR- 1 Reactor  and the PUMA 
facility , alongside their bespoke digital twins , to extend the frontier of nuclear innovation. The 
ability of PUR -1 and PUMA to collect real- world data, instead of relying on simulations or 
synthetic data, distinguishes them from other facilities.  
Purdue  is pioneering the use of physical AI  across the nuclear value chain. Several applications 
are highlighted below:  
•AI-driven  Autonomous Nuclear Control  to support High -Energy -Demand  Applications :
Autonomous  nuclear systems have the potential to transform national security and
military operations, and enhance domestic energy capacity to support high- growth,
energy -intensive sectors like data centers. However, without robust, real- world testing
platforms, widespread deployment of these autonomous systems is impractical and
thus limited . Capitalizing  on two one-of-a-kind facilities, the PUR -1 Reactor and the
PUMA Facility,  in conjunction with their associated digital tw ins, Purdue’s School of
Nuclear Engineering is conducting groundbreaking research on the use of physical AI  for
autonomous nuclear control .
•Physical AI  for Nuclear Security - Monitoring, Detection and Sensor Development:
Physical AI  can enhance nuclear infrastructure security by rapidly identifying unique
nuclear signatures and  other observables. To achieve this, in concert with the National
Laboratories , the PUR -1 reactor digital twin creates a unique testbed to conduct physics -
informed AI research with rapid transfer learning. Purdue’s innovative approach may
unlock sensor breakthroughs for in- situ, low -latency measurements  to streamline
nonproliferation tasks  and enhance mo nitoring of nuclear materials.
•Physical AI  for Advanced Nuclear Manufacturing : Constructing new nuclear reactors
requires expensive capital investment  and will influence nuclear production in the U.S.
This is  a component of the Administration’s goal to increase U.S. nuclear energy
capacity. Physical AI  can support advances in manufacturing reactor structure s by
rapidly  qualifying materials to meet  nuclear -specific performance requirements,
unifying otherwise di stinct manufacturing processes into a single platform, and
revolutionizing the process of material discovery.
•Physical AI  for Nuclear Waste and P lant Management : Ongoing reactor maintenance,
safe plant management, and long -term waste storage is vital for managing operational
costs and maintaining safety standards. Physical AI  models can deliver a big step -up in
performance over current methods with respect to predicting material d egradation, and
detecting  risk based on real- time sensing data, which can support more precise
decision -making on inspection, repair and remaining life assessments.
2.Digital  and Precision Agriculture
Secret ary Rollins has articulated her vision for fostering prosperity  in rural areas  by focusing on 
“innovative solutions” to aid rural communities , coupled with other priorities .9 Historically, 
9 Secretary Rollins Previews Her Vision for Restoring Rural Prosperity | Home  


Purdue has developed innovative solutions that benefit ed the entire U.S. agriculture value 
chain —from inputs, production, storage, transportation, processing, to delivery. Purdue’s 
College of Agriculture , ranked 3rd in the U.S. and 5th in the world, continues to fulfill its mission 
as a premier land grant university. Purdue is developing  physical AI  capabilities that can 
transform the agricultural industry. To cite just a few examples:  
•Real -world Agricultural Data: Purdue is leveraging farm IoT testbeds, across several
research centers, to gather high -quality da ta that enable the development of physical AI
applications in crops production and storage, livestock behavior and production, and
machinery logistics.
•Food Safety : Purdue is exploring the use of physical AI  to support risk assessment of
concentrated animal feeding operations, such as the potential to contaminate nearbyproduce production, especially leafy greens.
•Soil Health:  Purdue is researching physical AI  applications to better understand the
microbiomes of soil, humans and animals , and their complex  interactions, to build
solutions that improve the health of soils and entire ecosystems. These efforts align withPurdue’s One Health initiative , which advances knowledge and innovation related to
animal, human, and environmental health and well- being , with a goal to generate better
outcomes for plants, animals, and humans.
Purdue  has the capability to undertake this advanced research because of the school’s cutting -
edge  physical AI  infrastructure and our partnerships with the National Laboratories  and other 
U.S. research universities. For example, through our participation in the NSF funded 
engineering research center IoT4Ag ,10 agricultural and biological engineers, electrical and 
computer engineers , and agronomists are melding AI and biophysical models to enhance food, 
energy and water security. Purdue’s newly formed, cross -departmental Institute for Digital and 
Advanced Agricultural Systems  will serve as a hub to collect, synthesize , and leverage real-
world data vis -à-vis the development of potential physical AI  applications for agriculture.  
3.Pharmace utical Engineering and Manufacturing
The T rump Administration has signaled interest to lower drug costs, accelerate drug discovery , 
improve patient outcomes, and strengthen the pharmaceutical value chain. Recent actions by 
ARPA -H suggest how AI and ML can play a role in achieving those objectives.11 Purdue is 
developing physical AI  capabilities to complement  ongoing efforts at AR PA-H, while aiming to 
break new ground to advance the Administration’s priorities.  
Curren tly, bringing a new drug to market costs $2B .12 A primary driver is the use of animal 
models , which are expensive , marr ed by ethical concerns , and often fail to accurately predict 
how a new therapy will affect humans. Purdue is developing physical AI  capabilities aimed at 
10 IoT4Ag | About Us 
11 ARPA -H Pr oject Awardees | ARPA -H 
12 CATALYST | ARPA -H 


improving drug discovery, reducing costs and shortening the time to first -in-human dose. One 
such capability is a self -improvin g, physics -aware scientific ML  (“SciML ”) engine focused on 
biotherapeutics. The SciML engine will target biotherapeutics for complex diseases such as 
cancer, autoimmune disorders , and genetic conditions. The SciML engine and its digital twin will 
address distinct challenges with preclinical studies, such as the administration of complex molecular structures, potential for immunogenic response , and variability in absorption and 
distribution of drugs.  
The William D. and Sherry L. Young Institute for Advanced Manufacturing of Pharmaceuticals  
recently launched the Young Institute Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Consortium , a 
collaborative effort between Purdue, Eli Lilly and Company , and Merck & Co. Inc. The 
Consortium will use physical AI  to elevate and enhance pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical 
manufacturing by developing disruptive innovative technologies, autonomous systems, and digital technology. The effort will incorporate industrially relevant education and training for the next generation of scientific leaders and researchers.  
Purdue ’s unique  physical AI  infrastructure enables all of this promising research. The SciML 
engine will combine the latest computational techniques appl ied to digital twins and large 
language models , with the expertise and technology of our industry partners . Together, we  will 
revolutionize advanced manufacturing process es using physical AI . These transformational 
capabilities have the potential to dramatically accelerate drug discovery and manufacturing , 
redu ce human error, and lower costs, all while improving patient safety.  
Chall enges to Develop and Deploy Physical Artificial Intelligence  at Scale  
Purdue  is shaping how and where physical AI  can generate real -world benefits , as 
demonstrated by the case studies outlined above.  However, deploying physical AI  at scale, in a 
manner that delivers exceptional dependability, reliability, safety, trust and e nd results, will 
require overcoming some hurdles foundational to  physical AI, as well as challenges specific to 
various use cases. Several of these cross -cutting hurdles are described  below.  
The unpr edictable nature of the physical world, with unique edge  cases and unanticipated 
events that are difficult to model, presents considerable challenges for AI systems. AI systems 
trained purely in a virtual setting —which may suffice in some contexts —may fail when 
transitioned to the physical world. Accuracy chall enges and hallucinations observed with 
generative AI will not be acceptable in physical AI  contexts when factoring in societal and 
organizational risk tolerance. Whereas errors in digital AI may result in inefficiencies or inaccurate outputs, failures in p hysical AI  can lead to serious repercussion, such as industrial 
accidents, environmental harm, or potential loss of life.  
To func tion properly,  physical AI  systems require considerably more than just suitable software 
and digitally scraped datasets. Depending on the specific use case, physical AI  must be 
developed to fit the relevant field in which the  physical AI  will be deployed. This requires 
rigorous cooperation and coordination across fields of specialization, an area of particular 


strength at Purdue . Among the underlying data and advanced algorithms, physical AI  is also 
intrinsically connected with its human users and the diverse socio -technical systems that guide 
their interactions.  
In cons tructing its AI Action Plan, the Administration should  consi der addressing these priority 
gap areas:  
1.Data -shari ng and C omputational Capabilities to Train Physical AI. Similar to the large
language models underpinning “traditional” AI, the quality and utility of physical AI  depends
on the quality and quantity of data on which the physical AI  is trained. But contrary to the
data sources suitable for digital AI, generally preexisting and accessible by interested
parties, the data needed for  physical AI  applications  (which will vary by application ) is often
neither AI -ready nor accessible. At present, data  within a given physical AI application is
usually confined to inacc essible local resources  and existing repositories  tend to lack
negative results and data provenance . Many repositories  are proprietary or inaccessible and
subject to private controls . Interested parties may  not even be aware of data that may be
germane to their specific use case.  Given these dynamics, automatically collecting the data
and metadata required for PAI applications —while ensuring it is diverse, detailed, timely,
and relevant for training various PAI models —presents a signi ficant challenge.  Accessing the
necessary datasets in a decentralized, privacy -enhancing manner , is critical to training
physical AI  at scale. Physical AI  requires a cutting -edge data infrastructure that enables the
automatic capture of AI -ready data, real -time data retrieval, plus analysis and collaboration.
As the volume and complexity of datasets increase, so will the need to invest in
infrastructure to c onnect the physical and virtual worlds , and in elevated computational
capabilities to process the data. Accordingly, advanced computational resources also are
important to enable  physical AI  at scale.
2.AI-enhan ced Digital Twins to Si mulate Complex Physica l Environments, Enhance Decision -
making and P redict  Future  Phenomena and S tate Changes of A ctual Objects . Digital twins
are digital representations of physical systems, processes , or environments , capable of
dynamically adjusting as data becomes available and forecasting future scenarios fordiscovery and optimization. Although the concept and use of digital twins is not new,autonomous experimentation and physical AI  have the potential to signific antly accelerate
innovation and scientific discovery. First, intelligent digital twins enable researchers andother stakeholder s to test and validate the technology in a virtual environment before it is
deployed in real -world environments. This is essentia l for minimizing performance risk.
Second, developing digital twins with AI capabilities enhances the utility and performanceof the digital twins, enabling users to go beyond modeling to perform forecasting andpredictive decision -making. Imagine, for exa mple, self -driving labs, orchestrated by an
intelligent twin , searching for new molecules or materials around the clock, 24/7. Purdue is
actively incorporating AI into digital twins to recognize both benefits. Digital twins createhigh -quality datasets for  physical AI  model training, execute timely performance
simulations, and explore different scenarios. Third, digital twins are an essential tool for
pursuing workforce development at scale. Digital twins  can be used for education and


training. In a virtual environment, which can be accessed anywhere at any time, students 
can train on  new machinery ( virtually ), learning how to wield basic instruments without 
stepping into an actual lab. This can promote better training and reduce errors prior to 
humans interacting with the physical objects. For these reasons, investing in high- fidelity 
digital -twin capabilities should be a priority to accelerate the development of  physical AI  
technologies  and contribute to training the workforce .  
3.Physi cal Testbeds to Validate Physical AI  Models in Controlled, Real-world Environments .
Testbeds are controlled physical environments where physical AI  can be tested on real
hardware and systems. Testbeds permit the collection of real- world data in a sec ure
manner, which can be used to refine  physical AI. Testbeds are a critical step in the  physical
AI development process, exposing physical AI  to real -world conditions while allowing
researchers to manipulate and control for different environmental variabl es that can affect
the physical AI  system’s performance. Testbeds can function as a platform for collaboration,
where researchers, industry partners and the public sector can share data and co -develop
physical AI  applications. Expanding physical testbed ca pabilities is critical for the
advancement of physical AI .
Purdu e is making significant progress to address these gaps in the different domains where  
physical AI  is being researched and tested, but further coordinated efforts, including targeted 
investme nts, would accelerate innovation and ensure America realizes the full impact of 
physical AI.  
AI Ac tion Plan Recommendations  
The po licy recommendations outlined below are designed to enable, facilitate and expedite a 
nationwide proliferation and rollout of physical AI  that trains and uplifts the American 
workforce, promotes U.S. global economic competitiveness , and advances U.S.  national security 
interests. Physical AI  can play a meaningful role in ensuring America’s continued leadership in 
AI. We look forward to working with the Administration to collaboratively update and shape 
these recommendations.  
1.Establ ish Physical AI  as a Focus of t he AI Action Plan . Physical AI  can advance the priorities
of the Administration, especially with respect to innovation, economic competitiveness andnational security. Physical AI  can deliver substantial “real -world” benefits across the country
to benefit U.S. companies, consumers and citizens , while serving as a n important
geopolitical lever as the U .S. looks to maintain leadership in this dynamic area amid rising
competition from other countries .
2.Support t he Development of Data Infrastructure  for Physical AI that enables S ecure
Collaboration between the P ublic and P rivate Sectors.  A strong data -sharing infrastructure
between the public and private sectors  will improve physical AI  training and facilitate the
development of more adv anced digital twins and testbeds.  A well-designed data
collaboration infrastructure with due regard for intellectual property , proprietary data,  and


related issues, will encourage public and private institutions to securely share real -time 
data, and collab orate to build  physical AI  capabilities  with mutual benefit. The NIH drug 
repurposing13 initiative serves as a valuable open -source approach, offering insights into 
effective collaboration strategies, human capacity development and intellectual property 
management. The initiative highlights how government can foster collaboration between the public and private sectors to maximize the reuse of existing data assets. Expanding 
mechanisms to facilitate  sharing of  real- time data and access across different sectors will be 
critical to advancing  physical AI . 
3.Enhance  Computing Connectivity among R esearch Hubs in Academia, Government and
the Private Sector to A dvance Cross sector C ollaboration for Physical AI  Applications . The
Department of Energy’s interconnected computing model - including the ESnet high-
performance network and the Exascale Computing Project , which links its most powerful
supercomputers – serves as a proven model to accelerate physical AI  collaboration14 15. A
similar high -performance network should be developed to support  physical AI , ensuring
researchers have seamless access to shared computing resources. This would enablegeographically disperse, collaborative studies , expanding the pool of knowledge available to
tackle national priorities.
4.Advan ce Targeted, Goal-oriented Physical AI  R&D across Federal Science Agencies . AI
research investments  by governmental agencies and departments , such as by the NSF, NIST,
DOE , NIH , and USDA , should explicitly include physical AI  and support advancements in
digital twins, testbeds , and real -world physical AI  application s. The various “ ARPAs” are well
positioned to drive high -risk, high -reward physical AI  research and innovation. The
Administration should in particular explore opportunities for  physical AI -focused R&D
specific to digital twins : advanced nuclear energy via ARPA -E; agricultural applications
through AgARDA ; preparing military systems to perform in future battlefields while
deploying increasing numbers of autonomous vehicles and weapons through DAPRA; and
AI-driven biopharmaceutical production and public health preparedness through ARPA -H.
Although the “ ARPA ” model may prove useful for these purposes, the Administration may
wish to consider additional mechanisms to hasten  physical AI  applications.
5.Establ ish a F ederal Task Force to S trengthen AI Workforce Development . To maintain U.S.
leadership in AI, a federal Task Force should assess workforce needs and recommendstrategies to expand AI literacy and engineering capabilities, particularly in physical AI .
Cross -disciplinary expertise is essential to closing skill gaps and ensuring AI systems (digital
and physical) reflect U.S. values.
For physical AI  to reach its full potential, workers must have domain -specific knowledge and
technical skills to design and deploy AI tools.  Digital twins can  play a n important  role in
13 Open- source approaches for the repurposing of existing or failed candidate drugs: learning from and applying the lessons 
across diseases - PMC  
14 About ESnet  
15 Home Page - Exascale Computing Project  


training and upskilling the U.S. workforce.  Human trust in AI is critical for widescale 
adoption  of AI systems. This will require a foundational understanding of AI capabilities,  and 
how  human -AI teaming and human factors in workforce development will be structured. 
Policymakers should consider how physical AI  ought to integrate with existing job roles , and 
strike a proper balance with respect to future positions.  
The U .S. has successfully ups killed domestic workers in response to prior technological 
shifts , for example through the Engineering, Science and Management War Training 
(“ESMWT”) Program16. To accelerate AI workforce development , the Administration should 
unite academia, industry and government to develop market -aligned solutions that 
continue to advance the U.S. as leader in physical AI .  
16 ERIC - ED543335 - Engineering, Science, and Management: War Training. Final Report. Bulletin, 1946, No. 9, US Office of 
Education, Federal Security Agency, 1946  


