March 1 4, 2025  
AI Action Plan  
Attn: Faisal D’Souza, NCO  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Re: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence 
(AI) Action Plan  
Dear Mr. D’Souza:  
PwC appreciates the opportunity to respond to the Request for Information on policies and 
approaches for developing a national Artificial Intelligence ( AI) action plan. Our views are 
informed by our work with a diverse spectrum of industry stakeholders to enhance business value and drive economic growth, having recognized early the transformative power of AI for both our clients and us . We believe the insights gained from t his vantage can help inform a 
national AI strategy , which will in turn accelerate innovation  and bolster economic prosperity . 
Overview  
AI is redefining industries and fueling economic growth. Its influence extends across sectors and functions — from modernizing supply chains, manufacturing, and healthcare to 
transforming business processes through automation. The ability to fully realize this 
transformative potential requires confidence that AI solutions will deliver operational, financial, and societal benefits as technology continues to advance. We believe there are t hree  
pillars that are critical to achieving this objective:  
1.Harmonizing e xpectations and  requirements for e fficient compliance
Complex , duplicative, or overlapping regulations can slow innovation and AI adoption by
introducing uncertainty and concerns regarding onerous reporting and other compliance
obligations.  An organization operating in multiple jurisdictions or sectors will benefit
from the harmonization of regulatory and legal expectations  regarding their AI systems so
they can be confident in the design of  a single set of responsive protocols and controls and
project the corresponding costs and benefits.  Aligning and clarify ing these requirements
enables businesses to address them  efficiently , promoting consistent AI leading  practices
while  facilitating greater investor and consumer confidence and trust. We also believe that
the overall innovation opportunit ies for AI can be markedly enhanced by  providing clarity
with respect to the application of liability and copyright laws, among other common areasof ambiguity. Once established, regulatory frameworks  will need to be periodically
revisited  to help ensure their continued fit ness for purpose in a rapidly evolving area .
2.Incentivizing transparency to b uild trust
Trust is paramount for widespread acceptance of AI, particularly at the current pace oftechnological change. Incentivizing developers to enhance appropriate visibility into AIprocesses  — such as through voluntary disclosures on certain AI deployments  — can
maintain forward momentum without necessitating additional regulations. Developers
may find it helpful, for example, to think of transparency on a continuum. As the degree
of risk or potential impact increases, including when the risk involves users’ pe rsonal or
proprietary data, increased transparency may engender additional trust and confidence .
In practice, this would necessitate  identifying specific points across the AI systems


development and deployment spectrum , developing  transparency parameters  around 
each of the se points , and publishing related methodologies or performance metrics to 
offer meaningful insight without exposing competitive information.  This approach not 
only streamlines compliance but also preserves a stable policy environment that fosters 
trust and aligns with the rapid pace of AI innovation.  
Transparency around AI’s use may advance public trust and understanding , but 
confidence in the information disclosed by companies can be enhanced by independent, 
third -party assurance . Public company auditors possess (1) expertise in information 
systems and assurance methodology according to generally accepted standards, (2) robust 
licensure requirements, and (3) a  system of quality management  mandated under  the 
standards of the American I nstitute of C ertified Public A ccountants  and Public Company 
Accountin g Oversight Board . These attributes combine to credential public company 
auditors to provide a high level of assurance and substantially enhance trust. 
Whether internal testing and  certification  or external third -party assurance is required 
should be determined by the applicable governing agency  and the extent of such 
assurance scaled based on an assessment of the level of confidence expected by the 
stakeholder and the  consequences of misinformation or disinformation. 
3.Supporting new stakeholder partnerships for greater  efficiencies
Incentivizing new partnerships among businesses, the public sector, academic
institutions, and industry groups can yield targeted approaches that directly address
private sector  needs while maintaining a cohesive regulatory environment  that sets the
global example for how trust in AI systems is built and maintained . For example,  joint
advisory councils can promote real -time feedback, reduce duplicative requirements, and
accelerate best -practice adoption  in a way that enhances innovation and reduces
inefficiencies . Proactive collaboration also fosters alignment on technical standards,
driving greater trust in AI solutions. In turn, these approaches can build a stable policylandscape that supports rapid innovation and strengthens US competitiveness .
Conclusion  
PwC  supports establishing a national AI action plan that fosters innovation and recognizes AI 
as a critical pillar of economic growth . Policies that provide clarity  for developers, deployers, 
and end-users  — and promote transparency and trust with respect to AI development  — will 
help drive responsible  technological transformation and build confidence among 
stakeholders.  
*     *   *     *     *  
We would be pleased to discuss our comments and we stand ready to collaborate with 
policymakers, regulators, and industry partners to advance these recommendations. Please contact Jennifer Kosar at  or Rohan Sen  at  with 
any questions regarding our submission .
 1
Sincerely,  
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
1 This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary 
or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution . 


