March  15, 2025 
From 
Rames h Pandurangan  
To 
AI Action  Plan  
Attn: Faisal D’Souza , NCO  
Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP)  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria , VA 22314 
Submitt ed by email to: 
Response to  RFI on the “ Deve lopment of an AI Action Plan ” 
Thank you  so much for the opportunity to participate in America’s AI Action Plan Development!  
In my humble view , the following are some of the important policy ideas or  focus areas that could be 
considered while developing an Action Plan that can  enhance America’s global dominance and leadership 
in AI Technology Innovation as well as promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness and 
national security.  
(1)AI to c ombat waste, fraud, and abuse of taxpayer dollars .
AI can be e ffectively used to  monitor & screen transactions real- time, cross -reference data  from
multiple data sources  / departments , track user behavior, uncover hidden connections , analyz e
historical data, identify patterns  and make decisions real-time  to ensur e funds are allocated for
worthy purposes and payments are made to eligible recipients and not to deceased individuals or
fraudulent entities for improper usage.
AI can also  help in organizing and presenting government data and making it more transparent
and accessible to the public in user -friendly formats, which can empower citizens to hold elected
and unelected officials accountable. Besides enhancing oversight , these applications can also
restore  public trust in governance.
(2)AI to c ontrol government spending and reduce national debt.
AI can i mpro ve efficiency, optimize resource allocation, and identify opportunities  to enforce cost-
saving  measures. AI can help in measuring  the effectiveness of government programs, identify
inefficiencies, e liminate unnecessary programs, enhance necessary programs,  and minimiz e
financial losses. AI can reduce administrative costs across government agencies to a great extent ,
by improving inter -department communications, streamlining processes and automating routine
tasks.
AI can op timize infrastructure investments by analyzing data on population growth, traffic
patterns and public necessities. By analyzing IRS data, AI can identify underreported income and
fraudulent claims, and thereby improve tax compliance and increase tax revenue without raisingtaxes.  These measures, when implemented effectively, can help government manage the finances


more res ponsibly and reduce future borrowings, and also the most  part of the savings can be 
reallocated to repay some of the debt.  
(3)AI to transform our Immigration System .
AI can t ransform our immigration system by simplifying and hastening legal immigration process.
AI can accelerate visa application processing by automat ed document review s and verification. AI
chatbots  can guide applicants through complex processes, answer questions and reduc e
application errors.  AI can cross -reference data to ensure applications are genuine , identify forged
documents, enhanc e security and reduc e delays caused by fraudulent claims.  These measures, if
implemented effectively, can make legal pathways more accessible and  affordable for the
worldwide  eligible immigrants.
AI can al so address  the illegal immigration problem by deploying AI -powered drones and
computer -vision cameras for boarder surveillance. AI, using facial recognition, can verify and
ensur e only auth orized individuals pass through at border checkpoints. AI can analyze data to
predict and prevent illegal activities, such as human trafficking or smuggling.
(4)AI to prevent hacking and data breaches  and enhance Cybersecurity.
By cont inuously monitoring the networks and systems, AI can flag suspicious activities instantly.
Unusual patterns or anomalies that might indicate a cyberattack can be easily identified. By
analyzing historical data, AI can predict potential attack vectors and system vulnerabilities, and
allow organizations to strengthen their defenses in advance. On detecting a threat, AI canautomatically and instantly isolate affected systems or block malicious IP addresses, and reduceresponse time and minimize damage.  AI can also improve access control through biometric
authentication and adaptive security measures, to ensure only authorized users can accesssensitive data and minimize cybercrime.
(5)AI can significantly enhance our counter -terrorism approach .
American  lives can be saved by deploying drones in combat situations. AI can seamlessly
coordinate communication between computer vision enabled small drones and large drones
carrying weaponry , and  make autonomous  decisions in enemy  combat s as necessary.  AI can also
analyze the aftermath of an engagement, providing insights for future missions and improving theoverall effectiveness of the AI -powered drone system.
(6)AI for In formation Dissemination .
Similar to  the White house Press Secretary, an AI enabled system can act as spokesperson to the
non-press community (public). Anyone in public having questions, without having to depend on
the tr aditional media or social media, can directly approach the AI system and get answers from
the Source of Truth!
Through da y-to-day interactions with the worldwide population, AI can analyze the global
perceptions of America, identify areas of misconception and provide insights to inform targetedoutreach and engagement efforts or provide necessary clarifications or additional information to


promo te a more accurate understanding of the country . AI can s howcase the "Real America" to 
the world!  
(7)AI can serve as DOGE for American families.
AI can he lp families optimize their relationships, love, trust, happiness, health, finances,
American-Dream and more.  Families truly wanting to improve their lifestyles, food habits,
spending habits etc. can take help from personalized data -driven AI models  and build better
relationships with one another in the family and neighborhood. With AI as a f riend, guide,
philosopher, mentor or coach, anyone  can get a personalized little push or encouragement  to do
better.
I offer my s incere wishes for the  successful  develop ment  and implementation of  an AI Action Plan that 
would advance and solidify America’s leadership and global dominance in the field of Artificial Intelligence 
(AI). I am  truly  excited ! 
Sincerely,  
Ramesh Pa ndurangan  
“This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential 
information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution.”  


