From: Randolph M. Fritz
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] Re: Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
Date: Sunday, March 16, 2025 12:08:46 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
If by "artificial intelligence" is meant generative language and image models, I see no reason
why any regulations should be abrogated, and many reasons why they should be maintainedand extended. 
 The industry is doing “fine” (except that no-one actually seems to want these
things except for criminals and students wishing to avoid learning.)  If the goal is to
abandoned copyright protections for works of authorship I am utterly opposed to that. Thesemodels are inherently, not creative; they depend on creative work, and to the extent that theyreplace the efforts of actual creative people, they are a negative. 
 On the contrary, we need
more and better regulation of copyright and “AI.” As I wrote to the copyright office over twoyears ago, when a painter creates a work, the brush does not hold the copyright, the painterholds the copyright. It is not different with "artificial intelligence." If a painter copies someoneelse's style, that's a copyright violation. It doesn't matter what tool the painter uses. If someoneuses an AI model to copy an artist's writing or drawing style and publishes the result, if thisdoes not fall under fair use, that's a copyright violation - it doesn't matter what tool is used.
Because "artificial intelligence" is such an efficient violator of copyright, because there is no
way to identify an AI model's sources, and because it is impossible to delete a work from anAI model it is both appropriate to insist on an opt-in model for works used to train an AImodel and insist that model builders keep records of what works are used to train their AImodels.
Because AI models are statistical models, their output is not reliably accurate; like a human
simply making up writing for its sound and persuasiveness, they can be wrong but persuasive.AI models can also "hallucinate" - produce content that is similar to that of a delusional orbrain-damaged person. It is therefore important that AI output be flagged, lest people trust itand endanger themselves.
Beyond that, I do not believe any regulations should be abandoned? 
 Our regulations are
written in blood  and I do not want to see blood spilled or the environment further damaged to
pursue an expensive and so far as I can tell, not all that valuable technology. If the applications
of such things are for instance, medical diagnosis or various sorts of pattern recognition jobs,what deregulation is needed?
Randolph M. Fritz, Tacoma, Wash.
“This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the governmentin developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.”
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.


If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


