1 To: Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP)  
From:  Dr. Randon R . Taylor, PhD 
Subject:  High-Priority AI Policy Actions for OSTP’s AI Action Plan  
Date:  February 17, 2025  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  
High -Priority AI Policy Actions for OSTP’s AI Action Plan  
The rapid advancement of artificial intelligence brings both immense opportunities and 
significant challenges. To ensure AI serves the public good while maintaining U.S. 
leadership in innovation, it is crucial to implement policies that promote transparenc y, 
fairness,  and global competitiveness. The following high-priority policy actions  aim to 
support the safe deployment of AI, mitigate risks and harm, and strengthen the United 
States' position as a global AI leader . 
1.Enhanc e AI Transparency , Explainability,  and Accountability
a.Require AI providers in high -risk domains  to develop  transparency
standards  and public -facing explain ability standards  which will bolster
accountab ility.
2.Mitigating Algorithmic Bias and Ensuring Fairness
a.Require  rigorous protocols to prevent AI systems from  exacerbating
existing social  disparities.
3.Maintaining International AI Competitiveness
a.Ensure US global leader ship in advancing AI technology and safety  by
allocating all necessary resources to its development and oversight .


2 b.Mandat e critical  sociotechnical safety  mechanisms  to ensure AI pr omotes
social well -being .
4.Establishing Algorithmic Registers and Human Algorithmic Review Board s
(HARB)
a.Mandate the use of algor ithmic registers  for AI providers operating in high -
risk domains .
b.Create oversight bod ies consisting of public and private stakeholders to
evaluate  the patterns of  algorithmic  outputs  for bias and discrimination  in
high-risk domain s.
i.Evidence:  Global l eaders , such as the City of Amster dam,  lead in
AI transparency  in their deployment of  algorithmic registers .1
1 https://algoritmeregister.amsterdam.nl/en/ai -register/  


