From: Raven Lente
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Monday, March 17, 2025 9:21:09 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Hello, 
I am just one artist in this country, but I know my voice speaks for the millions of us in it. I
firmly believe that AI creations should never be subject to copyright, trademark, or any otherofficial recognition that is allotted to creative works be they visual, written, or filmed.
 
For one, AI generated works are not original, they are the Frankenstein production of hundredof millions of stolen works, scalped from every corner of the internet without the public’sconsent. This is an infringement of personal security as in the example of Google AI beingable to pull data from sensitive emails and documents in your google drive and storage.
 
If a human is not able to copyright a stolen product, why should AI companies be allowed todo the same? If companies are recognized as legal entities similar to the citizens of the UnitedStates, then the products they produce should be subject to the same laws that we citizen mustabide by. Allowing AI generated works with only hurt our economy and society in the longrun as already the general public grows tired and resentful of companies that utilize AIgenerated works in their marketing and products. As more artist and creatives loose their jobsto AI at the large corporate level, the audiences that consume the material will grow tired ofthe lifeless nature of AI generated works as it does not carry the human spirit that we canrelate to in works produced by humans.
 
All this to say, giving into this push for AI will not bring us into the future. There is no futurewith out human creativity and ingenuity. Yes AI can be a helpful tool, but it should neverreplace the humans it feeds off of.
 
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


