The AI Action Plan for America
Reexpress AI, Inc., USA
1 Reexpress AI
Reexpress AI, Inc., a US-based corporation, pioneered the determinants of controllable Artificial
Intelligence (AI), the separation of aleatoric (irreducible) uncertainty and epistemic (reducible)
uncertainty in identifiable regions of high-probability and near-zero dispersion over the output
distributions of high-dimensional models with non-identifiable parameters (e.g., large language
models, LLMs). Obtaining these properties is achievable via our introduction of SDM activation
functions, SDM calibration, and SDM networks [1].
In short, Reexpress AI provides the enabling technology for building AI models that are reliable and
interpretable, the missing characteristics for AI models that can be effectively and cost-efficiently
applied to improve American manufacturing, education, healthcare, and related technical industries
tocreate American jobs, improve the quality of life and incomes for hard-working Americans, and
expand American exports.
It has been widely recognized that the absence of these characteristics precludes, or otherwise
significantly diminishes, the use of AI models in real-world settings, and the search for solutions has
been the subject of numerous federal initiatives.
2 Existing Federal Policies and Initiatives
The aforementioned approaches effectively address the key technical goals of the U.S. AI Safety
Institute (US AISI) at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). These include
methods for “developing or deploying AI in safe, secure, and trustworthy ways” and approaches for
benchmarking and testing.1Reexpress AI developed these innovations without direct federal taxpayer
funds and without the benefits of free marketing and resources from such federal initiatives.
3 New Policy Guidelines
•We recommend providing a voluntary option to Reexpress AI to include one or more repre-
sentatives of Reexpress AI (at the discretion and option of Reexpress AI) in all substantive
future discussions of federal AI policies to ensure that rigorous empirical (evidence-based)
and statistically-principled approaches are being considered.
•Applications and deployments of AI by the federal government, as well as private companies
that previously received funding or marketing from taxpayer funds to address AI reliability
and interpretability (as via, for example, participation in US AISI), should be advised—in
collaboration and consultation with Reexpress AI—to use SDM estimators and networks,
since they constitute the first approaches—and currently the only known viable approaches
for large-parameter models with non-identifiable parameters (e.g., LLMs)—that fulfill the
technological goals that have been previously articulated as being of critical need by official
government policies and were agreed upon by such companies in participating in said
initiatives and receiving the benefits of taxpayer funds.
1Accessed March 14, 2025: https://www.nist.gov/aisi/artificial-intelligence-safety-
institute-consortium-aisic.
1


•Given the need to rapidly deploy AI to increase American jobs and competitiveness, and that
implementation and deployment of such AI is dependent on SDM estimators and networks,
we recommend the Administration move to update such guidelines at its earliest convenience.
At this time, we recommend these guidelines be informational and not legally binding.
4 Disclosure
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary
or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the
AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.2
The recommendations in this document do not constitute a legal commitment nor agreement, nor
a formal commitment to licensing, participation, or contributions by Reexpress AI, Inc., and do
not imply a warranty of any kind. The recommendations included in this document are current as
of March 14, 2025. Given the complex and changing interactions among AI, government policies,
and relevant actors, the recommendations may change after that date; however, such changes will
not be reflected in this static document. It is solely the responsibility of the reader, and/or users
of the recommendations, to confirm the current status of the recommendations with Reexpress AI,
Inc., and Reexpress AI, Inc. provides no guarantee nor warranty on providing an update to said
recommendations within any set timeline whatsoever.
References
[1]A. Schmaltz. Similarity-Distance-Magnitude Universal Verification, 2025. URL https://
arxiv.org/abs/2502.20167.
2Accessed March 14, 2025: 90 FR 9089 :https://www.federalregister.gov/d/2025-02305/
page-9089
2


