Responsible Innovation Labs  | AI Action Plan RFI 
 
1 
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  March 15, 2025 
 
 National Science Foundation  White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP)  
Attn: Faisal D’Souza, NCO   
2415 Eisenhower Avenue,  Alexandria, VA 22314, USA  
  
  RE: Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Dear Members of the National Science Foundation and White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), 
Responsible Innovation Labs (RIL) appreciates the opportunity to submit comments in 
response to the National Science Foundation’s Request for Information (RFI) on 
recommendations concerning the development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan following President Donald Trump’s Executive Order 14179 (“Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence”) signed on January 23, 2025. As we all know, the United States has always been the biggest driver of technological innovation in the world. Fueled by our 
unmatched ingenuity , our tremendous enabling envi ronment,  and the incredible drive of our 
entrepreneurs and startups, America is the place to launch the next generation of AI startup s.  
Responsible Innovation Labs is a coalition of startups and investors who believe smart and 
responsible innovation is how you win. It is how great founders transform startups into 
enduring companies enjoying global success. RIL ’s mission is twofold. First, RIL accelerates 
founders and operators building great companies responsibly. We develop startup- specific 
content, provide trainings, and convene startups to talk about shared challenges and 
opportunities. Second, RIL is a forum for startups, large enterprise, investors, policy makers, 
and others to get ahead of the challenges posed by emerging technologies so that tech is worthy of the trust necessary to continue benefitting from permissionless innovation. Our efforts are 
aimed at nurturing the next generation of American business leadership . We strive to increase 
know- how when it comes to innovating creatively so that we can secure America’s position as 
the global leader in AI and create a brighter future for every American  because – not in spite  – 
of this technological step change .  
I. Introduction  
The benefits of today’s AI revolution are well -documented. AI is driving unparalleled benefits 
across our economy, enhancing productivity, efficiency, safety, customer service, and 


Responsible Innovation Labs  | AI Action Plan RFI 
2 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  accelerating discovery and decision -making to create tremendous value for consumers and 
entrepreneurs alike. Already, by automating everyday tasks - from travel planning to financial 
management - AI has saved countless hours and opened new avenues for econ omic growth, in 
finance, energy, and agriculture. However, concerns over AI risks remain significant.  
There are real risks to American’s physical, property, and economic security. AI can supercharge 
threats to our national cyber and critical infrastructure. Seniors and other vulnerable 
populations are being targeted in sophisticated scams exacerbated by AI. Children are being targeted with sexualized content with little to no transp arency for parents to make decisions as 
to which products actually prioritize safety. For creators, confusion abounds around the application of existing intellectual property (IP) laws. To truly take advantage of the opportunities AI presents for American leadership and prosperity, it is crucial that we address 
these near -term risks.  
We believe America must be the leader in establishing the global benchmarks for smart AI innovation.  
II. Important Goals of AI Pol icy
As part of our publ ic mi s
sion, RIL engages with policymakers at both state and federal levels to 
provide technical assistance focused on the foundational components of AI: compute power, data stewardship, and model development.  
Compute Power : To ensure that AI innovation is not monopolized by large tech incumbents, it is 
imperative to level the playing field for startups. To this end, projects like the National AI Research Resource (NAIRR) Pilot  should be advanced. This sort of investment  recognizes that 
many researchers and students lack the necessary access to the computing power needed to fully conduct research and advance AI technology. Americans will not benefit from AI if too few 
players  have the basic tools and know -how to accelerate discovery, innovation, and 
commercialization. We believe a level playing field also requires rigorous enforcement of 
existing laws designed to ensure that large tech incumbents are not engaged in anticompetitive conduct to crush nascent startups.  
Data Stewardship : The federal government has an important role to play in promoting 
transparency and ensuring that AI companies are responsible stewards of data. We urge the Trump Administration and Congress to work together to enact federal privacy legislation that would provide additional transparency and choices, require companies to maintain reasonable data security, foster data minimization principles, and ensure data subject rights to access their 
data.  
AI Action Plan Development: Prior regulatory proposals such as those at the state level have run 
into opposition because they focused on model development, rather than model applications 
and use, particularly those posing high risks to public safety and security. Government efforts 


Responsible Innovation Labs  | AI Action Plan RFI 
3 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  must recognize the differences between AI model applications and their development. Tailoring 
regulations based on risk will ensure that safety and security are prioritized without stifling innovation. Moreover, Congress and federal agencies may want to co nsider antitrust safe 
harbors to encourage self -regulation among AI companies, so that they can share information 
about threats and risks, similar to what the DOJ and FTC have done in the area of cybersecurity.  
Existing laws apply and should be enforced in the AI space, ranging from antitrust and privacy laws to laws prohibiting unfair and deceptive practices to more specialized laws such as the Fair Credit Reporting Act (which would require adverse action notices in certain circumstances where AI is used for decision making) and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (which prohibits credit discrimination, through AI or otherwise). Continued enforcement of these laws is crucial to AI development and the ability of startups to compete with other rule -abiding companies.  
The guidance below is offered as policy makers consider a potential AI Action Plan for American 
AI leadership.  
III. Principles for a Winning AI Action PlanA winning AI Action Plan should incorporate the following principles:  
●America wins when  startups scale with an intense focus on a first  order
priorit y of product integrity . AI appli cat
ions – often driven by startups – will win
commercially by e mph asizing the benefits of AI quality control. Mechanisms to increase
explainability, assurance, transparency , and getting ahead of 2nd/3rd order impacts of AI
will benefit customers an d all who encounter AI because of A merican ingenuity. These
behaviors will drive demand for American AI applications  and systems  in th e long run.
Policies should emphasize how a well -calibrated approach  to AI governance enables
innovation while  strengthenin g the U.S. AI ecosystem  for long- term competitiveness.
●Responsibility in innovation does not  mean zer oing out risk. Startups
should be entitled to safe harbors, so long as they have employed and
documented commo n sense responsible innovation methods, including
testing and risk mitigation controls. An AI Action plan should include a means to
incentivize companies to develop processes to forecast and address potential harms
associated with AI. Rules demanding perfect outcomes are likely to stifle interest i n
developing AI  that ben efits th e American people on some our most pressing challenges –
for example, creating abundance in health care, individualizing education  for all kids,
and acce lerating scientific discovery . Sim ilarly, the NSF and OSTP should consider safe
harbors as part of any proposed AI Action Plan, so that companies are not penalized forinternal testing that would potentially find problems with AI systems.


Responsible Innovation Labs  | AI Action Plan RFI 
4 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  ●An AI Action Plan should promote competition, particularly among startups
and small businesses, and should not entrench existing large tech players.Ameri c
an startups should be scaling with stage - and maturity- specific requirements for
AI governance. Onerous technical and legal requirements not tied to addressing tangib le
harms can favor large companies with established legal teams at the expense of smaller
companies that may struggle to comply. Legal requirements contemplated by the AI
Action Plan should therefore be scaled to account for the needs of smaller players. Thiscan be accom
plished through tiered requirements, small business exceptions, and/or
regulatory sandboxes.  Com petition can also be supported through efforts like the
NAIRR, as well as block grants to states so that they may complement the NAIRR with
research, data, and com pute endeavors specific to their state economies and needs.
●To promote startup competition and avoid a state -by-state patchwork, the
federal government should lead o n AI policy. A federal standard could ensure a
level playing field of protection for American consumers, as well as smaller startups in
the AI space that may not have the resources to hire outside counsel to parse through
state -by-state nuances. A national standard could form the basis of multilateral
engagement by the US government to harmonize international standards such that th ey
do not harm American startups  and consume rs. States would still have significant
latitude to legislate in their traditional domains  of state power in our constitutional
system.
●Clarify the responsibilities between developers and deployers. Because
deployers have the most control over how an AI system is used, developers should notbear the main responsibility for unsafe uses. Developers should, however, be obligated t o
provide sufficient information to deployers so that deployers can fulfill  their ob lig
ations,
consistent with protection of trade secrets and confidential information. These
responsibilities could be modeled on the relative responsibilities between controllers and
processors under privacy law, with controllers ultimately responsible for compliancewith m o
st provisions, and processors responsible for assisting controllers with their
obligations.
●Promote the testing and assurance marketplace.  More and more startups (and
established large enterprises) are offering governance, testing, and assurance serv ices
when it comes to novel AI technologies. These market mechanisms can spur safer andmore r
eliable AI . Supporting free market mechanisms will enable better and more
durable responsible behaviors by both developers and deployers in the long run.
●Balance t ransparency with protection of trade secrets.  Companies should not
have to disclose trade secrets or confidential commercial information to the public
absent compelling circumstances. An AI Action Plan should strike a  balance between
appropriate transp arency and protecting confidential information important for AI
development and American companies.


Responsible Innovation Labs  | AI Action Plan RFI 
 
5 
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  ● Protect American workers impacted  by AI  as its velocity increases . Every day 
startups are setting out to improve life and commerce in our country. They are figh ting 
to survive  and solve problems. I t is especially important that startups have room to 
develop applications that fill gaps and meet the unmet needs of all Am ericans. At the 
same time,  rapid advancement of AI will  reshape industries and impact labor markets . It 
is imperative a federal AI Action Plan get  ahead of impacts on  workers caused by these 
transformative technologies. Ignoring the threats will encourage fear mongering and 
backlash for AI innovators notwithstanding upside benefits from these technologies. 
Among other examples, the U.S. Trade Adjustment Assistance Program (TAA Program) helps workers who have been adversely affected by foreign trade and displaced by globalization. A similar framework could be established to provide financial stability and 
reskilling  opportunities for those adversely impacted as AI reshapes our economy .  
● Strengthen NIST to Advance AI Self -Governance. For decades, the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) has played a pivotal role in establishing 
standards and best practices that have reinforced U.S. leadership in emerging technologies, including artificial intelligence. Its rigorous, consensus -driven approach 
has not only enhanced domestic AI governance but has also positioned the U.S. as a global leader in responsible AI innovation. Foundational efforts such as the NIST AI Risk Management Framework have provided a flexible, risk -based foundation for AI policy, 
influencing international partners to align with U.S. principles. As AI continues to 
evolve, NIST’s expertise will be critical in ensuring that AI governance frameworks 
remain innovati on-friendly while providing a forum to address key risks. By fostering 
international collaboration and shaping global AI norms, NIST has ensured that American AI policy remains central to global discussions. Moving forward, leveraging NIST’s leadership wil l be essential to deepening AI policy coordination with allies, 
strengthening transatlantic and Indo -Pacific AI partnerships, and ensuring that pro -
innovation, risk -based regulatory approaches remain the global standard.  
 The U.S. AI Action Plan represents a critical opportunity to align AI policy with the realities 
of the startup ecosystem, where innovation flourishes when integrity, trust, and 
responsibility  are built into the development process. This is the time for startups to enhance 
public trust not because they are told to do so, but because they have the freedoms and 
incentives to build companies to endure for the long run.  
 By fostering an approach that enhances governance and integrity while enabling AI’s full 
economic and societal benefits, the U.S. can strengthen its leadership in AI, drive economic prosperity for the American worker, and ensure long -term technological progress.  
 
RIL looks forward to engaging further on these issues and contributing to efforts that ensure 
American AI leadership in the years ahead.  


