From: Reye S
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] This Needs To Stop!
Date: Sunday, March 16, 2025 11:44:27 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
You are about to give AI the power to ruin lives and careers. Artist, Musicians, People in
general who have worked really hard all their lives did not do all that to have their work andtheir passions be stripped away from them. It is bad enough that there are not many jobs lyingaround in this country, it is even extremely difficult to get a decent pay for the bills. Peoplehave built their entire lives in doing what they have done.
 
Through the sweat and tears, we crafted things that have made America what it is today.Allow AI to call the shots, you're not just putting workers out of job, you are risking lives tobe in dangers! It is very easy to have AI copy a person's voice, and heaven forbid that getsused to incriminate someone on false charges. And with the hate crimes and judicial branchputting innocent people in danger already, you best believe this will happen in more ways thanone thinks, thanks to AI. Not only that, put this will be the rise of individuals creatinginappropriate images of someone without their consent, and that will lead to be a whole newlevel of revenge porn.
 
What happened to protecting you citizens? What happened to hearing the voice of the peoplethat are the very essence of our country's civilization? This action plan is about to doirreversible damage if you ever think about wanting to go with letting AI take control of ourvery lives. When it should be the very thing helping us! Not just corporations andbusinessesmen. Actual people from the working class, the people who push themselves to earnless than what needs to be have to pay the bills. The ones who want to have time for their kids,be known for their creations, have time for hobies. The people who are working for yourcompanies, making your product, and the ones who are giving YOU money. Ai should beassisting us, not doing all the work.
You more than owe us, and now the least you could, correction should do is DO NOT
ALLOW THIS TO HAPPEN. TURN THE DECISION DOWN!
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


