1 Comments of the 
American Association of Independent Music,  
American Federation of Musicians of America and Canada , 
Artist Rights Alliance,  
 Department for Professional Employees, AFL -CIO,  
The International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees , 
Nashville Songwriters Association International , 
National Music Publishers ’ Association,  
Recording Academy,  
Recording Ind ustry Association of America , and 
Screen Actors Guild -American Federation of Television and Radio Artists  
on the Request for Information  
on the Development of  an Artificial Intelligence (“AI”) Action Plan  
Delivered via email to 
March 14, 2025  
The organizations set forth above  and described in Exhibit A  (“We” or the “Creative Community”) 
welcome this opportunity to provide comments1 to the Office of Science and Technology Policy and 
the Networking and Information Technology Research and Devel opment National Coordination Office , 
National Science Foundation on the request for information  on the development of an AI action plan 
(the “Plan ”).2   
We applaud the Administration for stating in its Jan uary  23, 2025 Executive Order that U.S. policy is to 
“sustain and  enhance  America’s global AI dominance in order to promote human flourishing, economic 
competitiveness and national security. ”3  Indeed, as the fi rst Trump Administration recognized  in 2020, 
“[t]he United States has long been a champion and defender of the core values of freedom, guarantees 
of human rights, the rule of law, stability in our institutions, rights to privacy, respect for intellectual 
property , and opportunities to all to pursue their dreams.   The AI technologies we develop must also 
reflect these fundamental American values and our devotion to helping people.”4   
1 This document is approved for public dissemination.  The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential 
information.  Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated 
documents without attributio n. 
2 90 Fed. Reg. 9088 (Feb. 6, 2025).  
3 Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence, Exec. Ord er No. 14179 (Jan. 23, 2025), § 2, 
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/01/31/2025 -02172/removing -barriers -to-american -leadership -in-
artificial -intelligence .  
4 Trump Administration; Artificial Intelligence for the American People ; Pillar Five “AI with American Values ;” available at: 
Artificial Intelligence for the American People .  As President Trump recently stated in connection with the Administration’s 
Feb. 10, 2025 Executive Order, “[e]very policy must be geared toward that which supports the American worker, the 
American family, and businesses, both large and small, and allows our country to compete with other nations on a very 
level playing field.”  Fact Sheet: President Donald J. Trump Restores American Competitiveness and Security in FCPA 
Enforcement (Feb. 10, 2025), https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact -sheets/2025/02/fact -sheet -president -donald -j-trump -
restores -american -competitiveness -and-security -in-fcpa -enforcement/ . 


2 These values and aspirations should extend to the Plan , which in turn should promote human 
flourishing, respect intellectual property, reflect American values of protecting individual rights, 
provide for licensing in free markets, and promote both American AI innovation and human creativity 
at the same time.  As noted below, we have several recommendations for the Plan , all of which are 
intended  to ensure that the Plan  increases economic opportunities  across all sectors , supports the 
American worker , and allows our country to compete with other nations on a level playing field.  
1.Introduction
Who We Are.   We represent a wide swath of businesses , large and small, and American creative 
workers who rely on their ingenuity, entrepreneurship, and intellectual property rights , including 
copyrights and rights to name, image, likeness , and voice,  to produce works  and engage in activit ies 
that contribute to, define, and promote America’s culture, values, and national identity.  Collectively, 
our members include actors, animators, artists, broadcast  journalists , cinematographers, musicians, 
music producers, music engineers, songwriters, sound recording artists, writers, other entertainment 
and media professionals , and the American businesses  that support them.   
We are key to AI policy development and hold an important seat at the table  to develop balanced  
policies regarding AI  and its profound impact on the U.S. creative econom y.   
Our Contributions to the U.S. Economy.   The creative community  contributes significantly to U .S. 
economic growth, including through  employment, exports  and important trade surplus , and digital 
services and goods .  According to the most recent study, the copyright industries added more than 
$3.3 trillion to America’s GDP, accounting for 12. 31 percent of the U .S. economy.5  The copyright 
industries accounted for 63.13  percent of the U .S. digital economy, contributing over 56.6  percent to 
employment in that economic sector .6  The copyright industries employ over 21.1  million workers .7  
The annual compensation paid to core copyright workers is approximately  50 percent higher than  the 
average U .S. annual wage.8  During the period 2020 -2023, the core copyright industries outpaced U.S. 
economic growth almost threefold.9  Regarding trade, the sales of select U .S. copyrighted products in 
overseas markets amounted to $ 272.6  billion.10  This exceeds the sales of other IP industries including 
pharmaceuticals, agriculture, and aerospace.11 
Key Principles.  As with other technological developments, the U.S. creative community  lives at the 
forefront of the evolution  of AI technology.  AI already serves as a tool to assist the creative process , 
5 Stoner, Robert and Dutra, Jéssica; Secretariat Economists; Copyright Industries  and the U.S. Economy, 202 4 Report ; 
Prepared for the International Intellectual Property Alliance; Feb. 2025 ; p. 1; 
https://www.iipa.org/files/uploads/2025/02/IIPA -Copyright -Industries -in-the-U.S.-Economy -Report -
2024_ONLINE_FINAL.pdf . 
6 Id., p. 2. 
7 Id., p. 1.  
8 Id. 
9 Id. 
10 Id., p. 2. 
11 Id. 


3 allowing a wider range of people to express themselves creatively  than ever before .  The U.S. creative 
sector continues to invest in , develop , and adopt innovati ve new tools to advance the creative process. 
This includes working with AI technologies, from the use of machine learning to better understand user 
behavior and preferences to systems that assist humans in the making of their art .   
This highlights a central principle that should be emphasized in any discussions concerning AI and 
copyright  and the development of the Administration’s Plan  – progress in AI innovation and strong 
copyright protection are not mutually exclusive .  It is not a zero -sum game.  Both must be encouraged 
and promoted with proper incentives and protections , especially since sophisticated foreign actors are 
a primary driver behind copyright theft that hurts Americans .  America can and should lead the world 
in policies that prevent both the theft of American copyrighted works and the responsible 
development of AI in a fair and competitive global environment.  
Consist ent with this approach, we encourage the  Administration to adopt the following core principles 
of the Human Artistry Campaign , which we support : 
(i) technology has long empowered human expression, and AI is no different;
(ii) human created works will continue to play an essential role in our lives;
(iii) use of copyrighted works and the use of voices and likenesses of professional performers
requires authorization and free market licensing from all rights holders;
(iv) governments should not create new copyright or other IP exemptions that allow AI
developers to exploit creations without permission or compensation;
(v) copyright should only protect the unique value of human intellectual creativity;
(vi) trustworthiness and transparency are essential to the success of AI and protection of
creators; and
(vii) creators’ interests must be represented in policy making.12
With these principles in mind, we offer the following comments:  
2.Comments
The Plan  Should Promote  Free Market Licensing for AI Training Materials.  
The Plan  should demand that , before AI developers and deployers deploy AI systems, they must first 
obtain appropriate license s for any copyrighted works they use to train their AI models, and 
appropriate authorization if they use a person’s name, image, likeness , or voice in connection with 
such training.   Consistent with  U.S. law and free market principles, these licenses should be negotiated 
without regulation and in the free market  to ensure fair value and economic competi tiveness.   
Many leading m embers of the AI technology community  agree with this basic principle.  Sam Altman, 
CEO of OpenAI , stated that “creators deserve control over how their creations are used and what 
happens beyond the point of them releasing it into the world,” and “the right thing is to make sure 
12 https://www.humanartistrycampaign.com/ . 


4 [creators] get significant upside benefit” from AI technologies . 13  In fact , OpenAI has  negotiated free  
market  license s for  training materials from ShutterStock, the Financial  Times, Associated Press, 
Guardian, Schibsted, Axios, Hearst,  Conde Nast, News Corp. , and many others.14 
Indeed, as discussed further below, one U.S. District Court  recently confirmed that licensing is required 
in order to use copyrighted content to train an AI system .15  This decision confirms that free market 
licensing of AI training materials  is appropriate and consistent with U.S. law .16 
Free market licensing  of AI training materials  promotes both a healthy economy and continued U.S . 
leadership in AI by delivering additional revenue streams for creators while providing AI companies 
with free market access to diverse, high -quality  sets of human -created content to copy  for training.17  
Rights -owning companies ranging from Getty Images  and Elsevier  to Symphonic  have licensed  their 
materials for  AI training , and companies including Microsoft, Googl e, and Perplexity  have obtained 
licenses for materi als to train their AI models .18  Such licensing among professional creators and AI 
companies is not only achiev able for training all sizes of AI models  and for creators of all sizes , but it 
also sets an example for the rest of the world and benefits the  public and a variety of  stakeholders in a 
number of ways .19  In particular , it provides rights certainty ; sustains America’s cultural, intellectual , 
and constitutional systems  through incentives to create new human made works ; provides better 
performing AI systems by providing better quality, diverse , data -rich, human  made training content ; 
and increases reliability  and trustworthiness  of AI systems .20   
More important, free market licensing of AI training creates a symbiotic relationship between rights 
13 See the video of the May 16, 2023 hearing of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology and the Law 
titled Oversight of A.I.:  Rules for Artificial Intelligence,  available at https://www.c -span.org/video/?528117 -1/openai -ceo-
testifies -artificial -intelligence , starting at 1:07:44.  
14 Charlotte Tobitt, Who ’s suing AI and who’s signing:  14 publishers join lawsuit against start -up Cohere ,  Press Gazette 
Future of Media, Feb. 14, 2025, https://pressgazette.co.uk/platforms/news -publisher -ai-deals -lawsuits -openai -google/ .  
15 Thomson Reuters Enter. Ctr. GmBH v. Ross Intel. Inc.,  2025 U.S., Dist. LEXIS 249296 (Del.D.C. Feb. 11, 2025) . 
16 Several other cases are currently pending against various AI companies for infringing U.S. copyr ights in connection with 
either the training of their AI systems and/or the AI system outputs.  See, e.g., Charlotte Tobitt, Who’s suing AI and who’s 
signing:  14 publishers join lawsuit against start -up Cohere , Press Gazette Future of Media, Feb. 14, 2025, 
https://pressgazette.co.uk/platforms/news -publisher -ai-deals -lawsuits -openai -google/ .  We anticipate those cases will 
ultimately be decided on similar grounds.  
17 In fact, this may lead to a U.S. competitive advantage due to U.S. AI companies ’ relationships , funding,  and better ability 
to license high quality training materials produced by U.S. companies as compared to the ability of foreign AI companies to 
license such high quality training materials  or having to resort to lesser quality training materials.  
18 Ina Fried, Exclusive:  New partnership aims to help doctors harness AI to diagnose patients,  Axios, Nov. 15, 2023, 
https://www.axios.com/2023/11/15/ai -doctor -medical -diagnosis -elsevier -openevidence ; Marty Swant, Why Getty Images 
and Picsart are partnering to train a new AI image model, Digiday, June 14, 2024, https://digiday.com/media/why -getty -
images -and-picsart -are-partnering -to-train -a-new -ai-image -model/ ; Stuart Dredge, Symphonic opens its catalogue up for 
licensed AI training, Music:)ally , Aug. 21, 2024, https://musically.com/2024/08/21/symphonic -opens -its-catalogue -up-for-
licensed -ai-training/ ; Charlotte Tobitt, Who’s suing AI and who’s signing:  14 publishers join lawsuit against start -up Cohere , 
Press Gazette Future of Media, Feb. 14, 2025, https://pressgazette.co.uk/platforms/news -publisher -ai-deals -lawsuits -
openai -google/ .  As noted in the last article, several AI companies, including OpenAI, Microsoft , and others, have also been 
sued where they trained on copyrighted materials without authorization.    
19 Stratton, Matthew, Market -Based Licensing of Publishers' Works for Training Generative AI Models is Feasible . Big Tech 
Agrees ( Dec. 24, 2024).  48 Colum. J.L. & Arts (forthcoming 2025), available at 
SSRN:  https://ssrn.com/abstract=5072814  or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5072814 .  
20 Id. 


5 owners and the AI development community, ensuring that, consistent with the Trump Administration 
priorities, “American AI technology continues to be the gold standard worldwide .”21  New regulations 
and exceptions that substitute government -ordered transfers of property would undermine a free 
market licensing regime .  AI developers would be unable to ensure that their systems are trained on 
the highest quality content  – in fact, s everal reports have note d that using synthetic content to train AI 
systems destroys the AI and results in “model collapse. ”22  Creating regulations or exceptions that 
allow AI developers to take others’ copyrighted works without license would invite foreign rivals  to do 
the same, resulting in a race to the bottom that promotes theft of American IP and creates unfair 
competition.  American policy must promote the creation of high quality , human  made content .  
Promoting free market licensing for AI training does exactly that.  
The Plan  Should Support Existing U.S. Copyright Law 
Existing U.S. copyright law is  sufficient to address copyright concerns arising from AI.23  In particular, 
our fair use doctrine  (which is unique to  U.S. law and cannot and should not be exported to other 
countries , which  do not share the same values and  decades of  judicial precedents) provide s a 
manageable and nuanced  approach to addressing liability for unauthorized uses of copyrighted works 
to train an AI system .   
As noted above, one court has already ruled that fair use did not apply to the type of AI training at 
issue in th at case.24  In Thomson Reuters Enter. Ctr. Gm bH v. Ross Intel. Inc. ,25 the court, applying clear 
and recent precedent from the U.S. Supreme Court, held that the defendant’s unauthorized use of the 
plaintiff’s works to train the defendant’s AI system was direct infringement and did not constitute fair 
use.26  The Court reaffirmed that the impact of the use on existing and potential markets is the single 
most important element of a fair use analysis, and that there was clearly a potential market to use the 
materials at issue in the case to train AI.27  The outcome of this decision is consistent with Supreme 
21 J.D. Vance, Speech at Paris AI Summit 2025,  Feb. 11, 2025; https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=64E9O1Gv99o .  
22 See, e.g., Ben Lutkevich, Model collapse explained:  How synthetic training data breaks AI,  TechTarget, July 7, 2023, 
https://www.techtarget.com/whatis/feature/Model -collapse -explained -How -synthetic -training -data -breaks -AI; Ali Borji, A 
Note on Shumailov et al. (2024): “AI Models Collapse When Trained on Recursively Generated Data ,” Arxiv.org, Oct. 24, 
2024 , https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.12954 ; Daniele Gambetta et al, Characterizing Model collapse in Large Langua ge Models 
Using Semantic Networks and Next -Toxen Probability,  Arxiv.org, Feb. 2, 2025, https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.12341 ; Elvis 
Dohmalob, A Tale of Tails:  Model Collapse as a Change of Scaling Laws , Arxiv.org, May 31, 2024, 
https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07043 .  
23 For more information , please see the A2IM and RIAA Oct. 30, 2023 and Dec. 6, 2023 comments to the Copyright Office in 
the Matter of Artificial Intelligence and Copyright, available at https://www.regulations.gov/comment/COLC -2023 -0006 -
8833  and https://www.regulations.gov/comment/COLC -2023 -0006 -8833  (“Copyright Office Comments”) .  As noted in those 
comments, however, depending on how the methods by which AI systems ingest copyrighted works evolve in the future, it 
may become necessary for Congress to consider adding a new right to Section 106 of the Copyright Act that gives a 
copyri ght owner the exclusive right to ingest a copyrighted work in an AI model or authorize others to do the same.  
24 Thomson Reuters Enter. Ctr. GmBH v. Ross Intel. Inc.  
25 2025 U.S., Dist. LEXIS 249296 ( Del.D.C.  Feb. 11, 2025).  
26 Fair use is a legal defense to copyright infringement, as set forth in 17 U.S.C. § 107.  
27 Id. The Court also rejected the defendant’s argument that use for training was necessary intermediate copying, noting 
that “[h]ere though, there is no computer code whose underlying ideas can be reached only by copying their expression.  
The ‘copying is [not] reasonably necessary to achieve the user’s new purpose .’”   


6 Court  precedent on fair use.  
Moreover , our Nation’s longstanding legal precedent clearly establishes that copyright should protect 
only human expression.   The Copyright Office’s recent report on copyrightability makes clear that this 
settled doctrine  applies  equally in the context of AI .28  This approach is consistent with our 
Constitutional values and  promotes human flourishing .  The Constitution only protects the rights of 
human beings.  Machines cannot and should not have the same rights.  
Maintaining these principles will lead to a robust, free market where creators are incentivi zed to make 
high  quality  works  and AI companies are incentivized to license those works for their AI systems.   For 
these reasons, the Plan  should support existing U.S. copyright law  and reject new regulations or 
exceptions . 
The Plan  Should Promote Strong Copyright Laws Abroad and Reject  Text and Data Mining (TDM)  
Exceptions  as Regulatory Overreach . 
The Action Plan should promote strong copyright laws abroad  that prevent use of American IP without 
a license , consistent with U.S. law.  This means  the U.S. should oppose any text and data mining 
(“TDM ”) exceptions to copyright abroad .  While some countries have enacted TDM exceptions, most 
were enacted before the rise of commercial generative AI and without consideration for the damage 
they could cause to copyright industries.  Since the rise of generative AI, nearly every country that has 
considered a TDM exception to copyright has decided against adopting such an exception.   
Unfortunately, w hile certain  TDM  exceptions might be justified for very specific types of unprotected 
data, bad actors are using them as a trojan horse to take American copyrighted works for free , denying  
American copyright holders’  compensation for use of their creations, and undermin ing the robust U.S. 
AI training data licensing market.  Indeed, the first Trump Administration dismissed proposals by some  
stakeholders to add TDM exceptions into the USMCA.  To level the playing field , deter the offshoring  of 
AI sec tor investment , and prevent foreign control of American works and data , the U.S. should lead in 
opposing , and the Plan  should oppose,  TDM exceptions that include copyrighted works .29  Opposing 
such regulatory overreach  abroad and  calling for their rescission where they have been adopted, will 
help level the  playing field and secure American leadership in both AI innovation  and creativity . 
The Plan  Should Promote Trust in AI by Encourag ing Reasonable , Limited  Record Keeping  and 
Transparency  
One real, practical barrier to AI adoption is the level of skepticism that end users have regarding AI.  A 
recent survey found th at only 35% of Americans trust AI companies .30  The study further found that 
28 Copyright and Artificial  Intelligence:  Part 2:  Copyrightability,  U.S. Copyright Office (Jan. 2025), 
https://www.copyright.gov/ai/Copyright -and-Artificial -Intelligence -Part-2-Copyrightability -Report.pdf  (confirming that 
copyright protects only human expression  and not AI  generated content , although noting, among other things, that the 
arrangement and selection of AI  generated material  may constitute sufficient human expression  to merit protect ion for that 
arrangement and selection).  
29 Jurisdictions  with some form of TDM exceptions include Japan , Singapore , and the EU .   
30 2024 Edelman  Trust Barometer, Supplemental Report:  Insights for the Tech Sector, Top Findings,  Edelman , 
https://www.edelman.com/sites/g/files/aatuss191/files/2024 -03/Trust%20Tech%20Sector%20Top%20Findings.pdf .  


7 respondents who were “less than enthusiastic about the growing use of AI would feel better about it if 
they understood the technology better , they were sure th at the business would thoroughly test AI, and 
they knew that those adversely affected would be considered.”31 
To overcome such skepticism and build trust in AI , including trust that training materials are legitimate 
and high quality, the Plan  should require  adequate record  keeping and transparency concerning AI 
training materials and the output s from AI algorithms . 
Consistent with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)  Artificial Intelligence Risk 
Management Framework , AI companies should keep adequate records of the training materials used 
to train their AI systems  and the provenance of such training mat erials.32  As noted by NIST , 
“[m]aintaining the provenance of training data and supporting attribution of the AI system’s decisions 
to subsets of training data can assist with both transparency and accountability.”33 
AI companies should provide  the public with reasonable summaries of the works used to train their AI 
systems .  Those publicly available summaries should include information sufficient for copyright 
owners to determine  if their works were used for AI training without a license for such use.   
AI companies should also provide more detailed information about the training data where there is a 
legitimate need for such information.  This should include  detailed disclosure about the training 
materials and their provenance where a copyright holder has a good faith belief that their works were 
used to train an AI system.   Ultimately, rightsholders should have the ability to obtain information 
about whether their works were used to train an AI system  in order to determine if their rights have 
been viola ted. 
One way to address this issue  is via the process set forth in the  TRAIN Act,34 introduced in the last 
Congress .  The Train Act  avoids regulatory measures and instead provides for a  court -administered , 
individualized s ubpoena process for copyright holders to request  whether their works were used to 
train a generative AI model if the holder has a  good faith belief that their work was used .  This provides 
due process and protection for the AI developer, with the transparency that a copyright holder 
requires under the law to enforce their rights.  At the same time, under the TRAIN Act’s balanced 
approach, the developer need only reveal the training material that is “sufficient to identify with 
certainty” whether and what of the copyright holder’s works were used for such training.  This 
provides an appropriate balance that is not overly burdensome on the AI developer or deployer while , 
at the same time , providing an avenue for a copyright holder to determine if their rights have been 
violated.  There are no fines or penalties if the AI developer does not respond to the subpoena, but 
lack of a response will allow a copyright holder to proceed in court on a claim with a rebuttable 
31 Id. 
32 National Institute of Standard and Technology, Artificial Intelligence Risk Management Framework (AI RMF 1.0) , NIST AI 
100-1, Jan. 2023, p. 16, available at https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/ai/NIST.AI.100 -1.pdf .
33 Id.
34 S.5379 – TRAIN Act, 118th Congress (2023 -2024),  https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th -congress/senate -bill/5379 .


8 presumption that a copy was made.  Unique and specific solutions like the TRAIN Act that respond 
narrowly to specific issues avoid regulatory overreach and maintain creative incentives while allowing 
AI to flourish.  We encourage the Trump Administration and the Plan  to support the TRAIN Act when it 
is reintroduced in this Congress.  
Regarding  the output s generated  by AI, AI companies  should  label  output s that are generated  solely  by 
AI.  Several  speakers  at the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology and the Law  
Hearing titled Oversight of A.I.: Rules for Artificial Intelligence , May 16, 2023, including  the CEO of 
OpenAI,  agreed  that consumers  should  be alerted  when  generative  AI is used  to create  video  or 
audio.35  Since  then,  several  AI companies  have  included  watermarks , C2PA  “Content  Credentials, ” or 
similar  signals  on output  generated  by their  AI systems.36  Such  labeling  builds  trust  in AI and in digital  
media  more  generally.   The Plan  should  support  such  labeling.  
The Plan  Should Support Passage of a Federal  Law to Protect a Person’s  Voice  and Likeness Rights 
Against Unauthorized Deepfakes.  
While unauthorized AI voice and likeness cloning ha s had a great impact on  the creative community ,37 
the use of AI technologies to these ends has broader personal safety and national security implications. 
Not only are there hundreds of unauthorized AI voice and likeness  models of various celebrities, one 
can also easily find publicly available AI voice or image models of political or corporate figures, such as 
President Trump,38 Vice President Vance,39 and Elon Musk.40  In addition, several services and apps 
have recently come online where one can create a n unauthorized  voice or likeness clone of anyone’s 
voice or likeness without the need for any particular technical knowledge.41  These tools can be used 
by anyone to create voice or likeness models of everyday Americans  – and th ey have been  used to 
scam people with replicas of loved ones  that sound or look eerily realistic , as well as to  enable sexual 
exploitation and blackmail .42  In addition, state laws that protect voice and likeness rights are 
35 See Senate hearing highlights AI Harms and need for tougher regulation , Brookings Institute, May 17, 2023, available at 
https://www.brookings.edu/blog/techtank/2023/05/17/senate -hearing -highlights -ai-harms -and-need -for-tougher -
regulation/ .  See also a video of the hearing, available at https://www.c -span.org/video/?528117 -1/openai -ceo-testifies -
artificial -intelligence , for example, at 47:56 and 1:18:13.   
36 See, e.g., Kathryn Hulick, Google now adds watermarks to all its AI -generated content, ScienceNewsExplores , Dec. 11, 
2024, https://www.snexplores.org/article/google -ai-watermarks ; Andy Parsons, 5-Year anniversary of the Content 
Authenticity Initiative:  What it means and what’s ahead,  Adobe , Oct. 14, 2024 , 
https://blog.adobe.com/en/publish/2024/10/14/5 -year -anniversary -content -authenticity -initiative -what -it-means -whats -
ahead .  
37 See, e.g.,  Kurt Knutsson, 10 celebs most targeted by malicious deepfake scams, dangerous search results , Fox News, Oct. 
29, 2024, https://www.foxnews.com/tech/10 -celebs -most -targeted -malicious -deepfake -scams -dangerous -search -results .   
38 See, e.g., https://www.weights.com/models/clm72l29i038ucctcdxuzc7iw ; https://fakeyou.com/character/donald -trump ; 
and https://www.fineshare.com/ai -voice/donald -trump.html , among several others.  
39 See, e.g., https://fakeyou.com/weight/weight_r680k1h2kq83tq2m5vnbd93rc/jd -vance ; https://www.jammable.com/jd -
vance -nAE5x ; and https://www.101soundboards.com/tts/1049838 -jd-vance -tts-computer -ai-voice , among others.  
40 See, e.g., https://www.weights.com/models/cm3rf83nr0u6txbl8pc0mn52o ; https://www.fineshare.com/ai -voice/elon -
musk.html ; and https://lalals.com/voice/elon -musk , among several others .  
41 See, e.g., https://beta.elevenlabs.io/ ; https://voice.ai/voice -cloning ; https://musicfy.lol/ ; etc.  
42 See, e.g.,  Audrey Conklin, Parents warned of disturbing kidnapping scheme using kids’ voice replicas , Fox News, Oct. 11, 


9 inconsistent and difficult for AI developers to follow.  We need a consistent federal law that protects 
personal rights, promotes free speech, and allows AI companies to flourish at the same time.  
To combat these harms  while adhering to these principles , the Trump Administration and the Plan  
should support the N O FAKES  Act, a bipartisan bicameral bill  introduced  in the last Congress .43  This 
legislation would provide certainty by creating  a national floor that protects a person’s voice and 
likeness rights as they relate to digital replicas  and gives victims meaningful redress for unauthorized 
digital uses while reserving  appropriate  First Amendment protect ions. 
*** 
We appreciate the opportunity to share these recommendations with you  and look forward to working 
with the Administration on the Plan . 
Respectfully Submitted,  
/Victoria Sheckler/  
Victoria Sheckler  
SVP, Deputy General Counsel  
Recording Industry Association of America  
2024, https://www.foxnews.com/us/parents -warned -disturbing -kidnapping -scheme -using -kids-voice -replicas ; Jamie 
Joseph , Scams targeting older Americans, many using AI, caused over $1 billion in losses in 2022, Fox News, Nov. 19, 2023, 
https://www.foxnews.com/politics/scams -targeting -older -americans -most -using -ai-caused -1-billion -losses -2022 .  
43 See https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th -congress/senate -bill/4875  and https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th -
congress/house -bill/9551 . 


10 Exhibit A  - Signatories  
American Association of Independent Music .  The American Association of Independent Music (A2IM) 
is a 501(c)(6) not -for-profit trade organization headquartered in New York City that exists to support 
and strengthen the independent recorded music sector and the value of recorded music copyrights. 
Membership currently includes a broad coalition of hundreds of independently owned American music 
labels.  A2IM  represents these independently owned small - and medium -sized enterprises' interests in 
the marketplace, in the media, on Capitol Hill, and as part of the global music community. In doing so, 
it supports a key segment of America's creative class that represents America's diverse musical and 
cultural heritage. Billboard Magazine identified the independent music label sector as over 40 percent 
of the music industry’s global recorded music revenue in 2020 based on copyright ownership.  
American Federation of Musicians of the United States and Canada .  The American Federation of 
Musicians of the United States and Canada is an AFL -CIO affiliated labor union representing 70,000 
professional musicians in the United States and Canada.     
Artist Rights Alliance .  The Artist Rights Alliance (ARA) is an  artist -run non -profit that advocates for 
musical artists, songwriters, and performers to be treated and paid fairly in today's complex 
marketplace.  ARA’s Board of Directors is comprised of musicians and music professionals, and its 100 -
member Music Council is chaired by Rosanne Cash, one of ARA’s founders. Working  on issues ranging 
from artificial intelligence to performance royalties to freedom of expression, ARA  focuses on 
principles of transparency and agenc y, fighting to ensure that artists have a seat at the table in policy 
discussions that impact their lives and livelihoods.  
Department for Professional Employees, AFL -CIO.  The Department for Professional Employees, AFL -
CIO (DPE) is a coalition of 24 unions representing over four million professional and technical union 
members. DPE affiliate unions represent professionals in over 300 occupations in education and 
healthcar e; science, engineering, and technology; legal, business, and management; media, 
entertainment, and the arts; and public administration.  
The International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees .  The International Alliance of Theatrical 
Stage Employees (IATSE) is a labor organization representing over 170,000 members in the United 
States and Canada working in all forms of live theater, motion picture and television production, trade 
shows and exhib itions, television broadcasting, and concerts as well as the equipment and 
construction shops that support all these areas of the entertainment industry. IATSE represent s 
virtually all the behind -the-scenes workers in crafts such as motion picture animator, cinematographer, 
motion picture editor, visual effects, studio mechanic, wardrobe, set design, stagehand , and dozens 
more.  
The Nashville Songwriters Association International .  The Nashville Songwriters Association 
International (NSAI) is the world’s largest not -for-profit trade association for songwriters. NSAI was 
founded in 1967 by 42 songwriters including Eddie Miller, Marijohn Wilkin, Kris Kristofferson, Felice 
and Boudle aux Bryant , and Liz and Casey Anderson as an advocacy organization for songwriters and 
composers. NSAI has around 5,000 members and nearly 100 chapters in the United States and abroad.    
NSAI  is dedicated to protecting the rights of songwriters in all genres of music and addressing needs 


11 unique to the songwriting profession.  The association, governed by a Board of Directors composed 
entirely of professional songwriters, features a number of programs and services designed to provide 
education and career opportunities for songwriters at ever y level.  NSAI owns The Bluebird Cafe, a 
legendary songwriter performance venue in Nashville, Tennessee.  The Music Mill, at 1710 Roy Acuff 
Place in Nashville, where the careers of Alabama, Reba McEntire, Toby Keith, Shania Twain , and Billy 
Ray Cyrus were la unched, serves as NSAI’s headquarters.  
National Music Publishers’ Association .  The National Music Publishers’ Association (NMPA) is the 
principal trade association representing the U.S. music publishing and songwriting industry. NMPA 
represents publishers and songwriters of all catalog and revenue sizes, from large international 
corporations to small businesses and individuals. Taken together, compositions owned or controlled by 
NMPA members account for the vast majority of the market for musical composition licensing in the 
United States. NMPA protects and advances the interests of  music publishers and songwriters in 
matters relating to both the domestic and global protection of music copyrights before the legislative, 
judicial , and executive branches of the U.S. government.  
Recording Academy .  Internationally known for the GRAMMY Awards, the Recording Academy 
(Academy) is the only music trade association that represents all music professionals and has long been 
working to protect the rights of all music makers including artists, performers, song writers, composers , 
and studio professionals. The Academy’s thousands of members span all genres, regions, and career 
levels, and include thousands of independent music makers.    
Recording Industry Association of America .  The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) is 
the trade organization that supports and promotes the creative and commercial vitality of music labels 
in the United States, the most vibrant recorded music community in the world. Its membership – which 
includes several hundred companies, ranging from small -to-medium -sized enterprises to global 
businesses – creates, manufactures, and/or distributes sound recordings representing the majority of 
all lawful recorded music consumption in th e United States. In support of its mission, the RIAA works to 
protect the intellectual property and First Amendment rights of artists and music labels; conducts 
consumer, industry, and technical research; and monitors and reviews state and federal laws, 
regulations, and policies.  
Screen Actors Guild -American Federation of Television and Radio Artists .  The Screen Actors Guild -
American Federation of Television and Radio Artists ( SAG-AFTRA ) represents approximately 160,000 
actors, announcers, broadcast journalists, dancers, DJs, news writers, news editors, program hosts, 
puppeteers, recording artists, singers, stunt performers, voiceover artists, influencers , and other 
entertainment and media professionals. SAG -AFTRA members are the people who entertain and 
inform America and the worl d. A proud affiliate of the AFL -CIO, SAG -AFTRA has national offices in Los 
Angeles and New York and local offices nationwide representing members working together to secure 
the strongest protections for entertainment and media artists in the 21st century a nd beyond.   


