From: Robin Sevakis
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Sunday, March 16, 2025 3:53:16 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Hello,
I'm a professional artist who has worked in tech/games and other fields for nearly two
decades. I'm writing to vehemently oppose the AI Action plan, which would allow AIcompanies to use copyrighted materials for training and other genAI purposes. There are amyriad of reasons
 this would be catastrophic for the creative sector and broadly the US at
large. I'll do my best to list these:
1. Negating copyright law is wrong and will harm all sorts of creators. By allowing the AI
companies to directly profit from non consensually scraped/trained works (images, music,written text, voicework, etc) the
 government is condoning stealing from the pockets of
professionals who  have trained for years to produce market valuable, high quality works. We
are already seeing job loss in creative fields. GenAI reproducing images in the exact,recognizable
 style of a particular illustrator or the voice of a particular  actor, which it is only
able to do by consuming those original works, is theft, and could make creative careersunsustainable.
2. Using the training of AI as an excuse to negate copyright is a dangerous slippery slope.
Even the code written to create these AI technologies could be stolen and reproduced bysomeone else (even another country) if someone simply says it's for training purposes. If thereis no protection or sustainability for the people and companies who create products of value,Americans will simply stop creating, as they would not be able to afford to do so when an AIwill just try to reproduce their work anyway. Considering the massive soft power the US hasthrough creativity- film, video games, books, music, technologies, etc, it would be acatastrophic loss to the economy to stifle the production of these works, which from whatwe've seen of generative AI so far, would not truly be able to replace at the same level ofquality or ingenuity.
3. Generative AI is not the hyper-growth leading tech the companies have been hyping it up to
be. Billions are currently being invested in a tech product that, thus far, has broadly not beenembraced by consumers/creators, has not streamlined or made anyone's work easier (exceptfor students cheating on their homework), and requires the energy of a small country to run.Microsoft has been the leader in AI investment and cramming it into their products, but readthe news and notice that they have recently quietly pulled back their investments. Why wouldthey cut back when they had been so bullish on genAI being the future? Could it be that theyrealized there is no actual profit to be made on a tech that requires trillions to run at scale buthas few actual users? It seems like bad business on the government's part if they were to allowthese AI companies to destroy other profitable sectors of our economy for a technology we areTOLD will be this game changing magic profit engine, but does not actually exist yet and maynever.
I am not against advances in technology, but I believe the tech companies would find more


profit and success by designing things that actually help people, make productions run
smoother, and take care of dirty, dangerous, or generally unpleasant work instead of simply
bleeding our already robust and globally adored creative industries by stealing their work orincentive to invent.
Thank you for accepting comments on this matter.Sincerely,
Robin Sevakis
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


