This docume nt is approved for public dissemination.  The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential information.   
Document contents may be reused by the government in developing  the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution . 
Page 1 of 3 
March 14, 2025 
Please allow this document to serve as  Ronawk’s response to the Request for Information by the Office of Science 
and Technology Policy (OSTP), the NITRD NCO for input fro m interested parties on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (“Plan”). The progress of AI technology and its numerous benefits seems inescapable, propelled largely by formidable 
market forces.  It is crucial to delve into what a world w ith fully developed AI might look like. America is striving 
for a mutually beneficial result that improves life for everyone.   While AI has numerous  positive applications, 
this response will focus specifica lly on its impact on biotechnology. 
Next-generation biotech will transfor m the American economy with groundbr eaking solutions in healthcare and 
pharmaceuticals, agriculture and food production, energy and environmental sustainability, and manufacturing 
and material sciences, thereby providing national an d economic security.  The biotechnology landscape is 
undergoing a dramatic revolution, demanding immediate action.  Legacy biomanufacturing is severely 
constrained by conventional framew orks rooted in chemistry, phys ics, mechanics, and energy. To unlock the full 
potential of next-generation biotech, it is imperative  that a biological perspective be incorporated into 
future biomanufacturing infrastructure.   We must employ the essential pr inciples of biology, leveraging the 
synergies, rather than the limitations , from established bio-manufacturing models rooted in chemistry, physics, 
mechanics, and energy to revolutionize the paradigm of bi o-innovation.  By bio-engineering advanced biological 
technologies, America will transform the evolution of  the next-generation biomanufacturing ecosystem and 
accelerate the future of bio-based innovation. 
Biology is the field where scientific progress holds the highest potential to  directly and profoundly enhance human 
life. Over the past century, we have eradicated some of the most perilous afflictions (smallpox, polio, tuberculosis, 
and measles) yet many diseases persist and overcomi ng them will be a monumental achievement. However, 
current biological research—whether on humans, animals, or plants is expensive and hindered by issues of 
inconsistency and reproducibility.  A dditionally, while vast amounts of biological data ex ist, the challenge lies 
more in its quality than its quantity. One of the key challenges with biologi cal data is its inherent complexity. Scientists r ecognize the difficulty of 
isolating the individual compone nts within this intricate system.  Even greater challenges aris e when attempting 
to intervene in a precise or predictable manner. There re mains a widespread belief that AI is only useful in a 
limited capacity—often summarized as, “A I can analyze data more effectively, but it can’t generate new data or 
enhance its quality.”  Therefore, what we ar e left with is “garbage in, garbage out”. 
By accelerating the entire research process, AI has the po tential to accelerate significant breakthroughs in biology. 
To unlock its full potential, AI should be leveraged to  perform, direct, and enhanc e nearly every aspect of 
biological research.
1 
1 Dario Amodei, Machines of Loving Grace (October 2024) 


This docume nt is approved for public dissemination.  The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential information.   
Document contents may be reused by the government in developing  the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution . 
Page 2 of 3 
Historically, a handful of key discove ries each decade has shaped our fundamental understanding of biology and 
driven the development of groundbreaking medical treatments. With the integr ation of AI into next-generation 
biotechnology, the pace of discovery can accelerate tenf old, potentially compressi ng 50–100 years of biological 
progress into just 5–10 years.  AI-driven biological sc ience will reduce the need for extensive iteration in non-
clinical and pre-clinical studies by creating more precise cell and animal models or simulations that more 
accurately predict human outcomes. This will be especial ly transformative for drug development, where faster 
iteration cycles are critical. With the development of biological AI, America can accomplish decades' worth of 
progress in biology and medici ne in just a few years. 
While new challenges—such as ensuring widespread acce ss to emerging technologies—will arise, it is worth 
considering how profoundly the world will improve if  AI transforms only the field of biotechnology. 
Next-generation biotechnology will crea te new services and products, that  provide opportunitie s to grow the 
American economy and workfor ce and is the path to bettering American lives.   If the 19th century was the century 
of chemistry, and the 20th century was the century of physics, the 21s t century is the century of biology.   For this 
bio-revolution to become a reality there must be significant improve ments made in the manufacturing (both 
economic and process) of the biologi cal raw materials needed to accelerate  the next-generation bioeconomy. 
Advancements in AI-enabled biological  tools and automated laboratories that reduce or eliminate the need for 
extensive experimental validation will represent a major breakthrough in  overcoming existing bottlenecks and 
barriers. 
America is not the only country to have this idea.   For some, there is a pressing sense of American decline, 
especially relative to a powerful and more assertive Ch ina (e.g., Deepseek vs Open AI).  China has indicated 
biotechnology and biomanufacturing are a top national priority starting w ith the 13th Five Year Plan and 
continuing into the 14th Five Year Plan with an em phasis on biomedicine and heal th, agriculture, industrial 
biotechnology, and frontie r biotechnology, which includes synthetic biology. 
Biotechnology is advancing quickly and converging with other t echnologies (e.g., AI) in ways that open doors to 
historic innovation.  However, our adversaries may look to use these emerging technologies in ways that could harm America.   AI-enabled biological tools will strengthen biosecurity and reduce biological threats by 
improving prediction, detection, prev ention, and response.  This includes enhancing bio survei llance and rapidly 
advancing the development of medical countermeasures , such as vaccines and antibodies, to address both 
intentional biological threats a nd naturally occurring infectious disease outbreaks.  The ability of AI to potentially 
accelerate countermeasure design is partic ularly vital in emergency responses to biological threats.  We must 
endeavor to safeguard the American bi oeconomy, as foreign adversaries and strategic competitors alike use legal 
and illegal means to acquire  America’s technologies and data, includ ing biological data, and proprietary or 
precompetitive information, which threatens America’s economic competitiveness and national security. 
Allowing China to outpace us will be a disaster for America and the free world. 
Investment in next-generation nationa l biomanufacturing infrastructure is not only a good policy but one of the 
best investments America can make overall as it sets a path of innovation that will shape America’s future.  Unlike 
most military hardware, biotechnology can be employed productively in peacetime, s upporting critical scientific, 
government, and industrial functions. We spend billions replenis hing American military  armament every year, 


This documen t is approved for public dissemination.  The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential information.   
Document contents may be reused by the government in developing  the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution . 
Page 3 of 3 
and unlike traditional military armament, biotechnology of fers immediate and enorm ous benefit for critical 
civilian applications.   
The U.S. defense budget is around ~$850 billion and only a small fraction is required to build a national 
biomanufacturing infrastructure. Next-generation biotechnology will allo w America to do more with less.   
Working with American firms, the Ad ministration should direct development funds to invest in next-generation 
biotechnology to counter the gr owing influence of China.   The Administ ration should then invest more in next-
generation biotechnology research and development that  will unlock American innova tion.  Investment in a 
dedicated defensive national bioeconomy is an investment in American reindustrializa tion and jobs, American 
security, and American resilience—and one America can’t afford not to make. Free markets have the power to drive an unstoppable wave of innovation in  America. Developing and sustaining 
a next-generation national biomanufacturing infrastructure will not only strengthen critical biomanufacturing 
capabilities but also create thousan ds of well-paying jobs  domestically. A robust American bioeconomy can 
support the construction of domestic biomanufacturing fa cilities by utilizing advan ce market commitments for 
domestically produced bio manufactu red goods that align with both military and civilian needs. 
America must possess the determination and courage to move forward on all of the above to build a 
comprehensive biomanufacturing ecosystem before a global adversary catches up.   America must exploit its lead 
if we wish to keep it.  America should be the world’s most innovative and agile force in next-generation 
biotechnology.   Building strategic biomanufactur ing capabilities is both sensible defense and crucial industrial 
policy that is aligned with current national objectives. 
In the long run, a powerful American bioeconomy means more stability and s ecurity.  The Trump Administration, 
Congress, and the Department of Defense (DoD) must work together to develop and fortify this essential pillar of 
the American economy.  Doing such will build America’s resilience against supply disruptions, provide counter 
measures against an inevitable attack, bring critical biomanufact uring home, and solidify the U.S. as the leading 
authority in a next-generation bioma nufacturing ecosystem, while granting th e American people key levers to 
shape the next era of th is foundational technology. 
A country with this capability can outbuild, ou tthink, outmaneuver, and outlast its opponents. 
Sincerely, Ronawk, Inc. 
Thomas W. Jantsch 
President & COO 


