1 Free  Markets.  Real Solutions.  
www.rstreet.org  1411 K Street NW 
Suite 900 
Washington, D.C. 20005 
202- 525-5717 
March 15, 2025 
Office of Science and Technology Policy 
2415 Eisenhower Ave. 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
 
Re: Request  for Information  on the Development  of an Artificial  Intelligence  (AI) Action 
Plan, Federal Register Number 2025 -02305  
Submitted  Electronically  
Comments  of the R Street  Institute in  Request  for Information  on the 
Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
I. Overview  of Comments
Thank you for the opportunity to respond to the Request for Information (RFI) on the 
Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan. The R Street Institute (RSI) is a 
nonprofit, nonpartisan public policy research organization. Our mission is to engage in policy 
research and outreach to promote free markets and limited, effective government in many 
areas,  including  emerging  technology.  This is why RSI  has a strong  interest in the  way our nation 
establishes a policy framework for AI and advanced computation in the race toward global 
leadership in the “most important general -purpose technology of our era.”1 
AI is part of a constellation of interrelated and codependent technologies and sectors with 
profound economic and geopolitical significance. This makes AI policy even more important 
because a positive, growth -oriented innovation culture encourages greater investment and 
entrepreneurialism  across  multiple  high -tech  sectors.  Potential  exists  for AI to drive  explosive  
1 Erik Brynjolfsson  and Andrew  McAfee,  “The Business  of Artificial Intelligence,” Harvard  Business Review , July 
18, 2017. https://hbr.org/2017/07/the -business -of-artificial -intelligence . 


2  economic  growth,  significant  productivity  enhancements,  and massive  improvements  in human 
health and well -being.2 
A vibrant technology base is also crucial to put the United States on stronger footing in both 
global competitiveness and security.3 A pro -innovation policy framework takes on added 
significance  with  China racing  faster  to compete  with  the United States  in this  vitally  important 
sector.4 The United States must continue to lead the world in AI to protect innovation and to 
ensure that other values our nation cherishes —pluralism, liberty, democracy, free speech, 
privacy, and civil rights —continue to thrive globally.5 
To achieve these objectives, America must adopt an “AI opportunity agenda” that utilizes 
governance  approaches  to harness  its potential while  addressing  concerns  in a flexible  fashion.6 
In this comment, we offer several high -level principles and specific policy steps to help our 
nation strike that balance. Members of RSI’s Cybersecurity and Emerging Threats team have 
filed supplemental comments on privacy and cybersecurity -related issues pertaining to AI.7 
II. Broad -Based  Steps  to Advance  an AI Opportunity Agenda  
A. Articulate  a positive,  forward -looking  policy  vision  that  embraces AI  as an 
opportunity for America  
We commend the Trump administration for issuing this RFI and for its ongoing efforts in AI 
policy. Recent statements and actions have helped realign America’s AI policy vision with the 
governance approach that helped the United States become the global leader in digital 
commerce,  computing,  and the internet  over  the past  half-century.  This happened  because  U.S. 
policymakers crafted effective pro -growth and pro -speech policies for the digital sphere 30 
years  ago.8 
 
 
2 Tom Davidson,  “Could  Advanced  AI Drive  Explosive  Economic  Growth?”  Open Philanthropy, June 25,  2021. 
https://www.openphilanthropy.org/research/could -advanced -ai-drive -explosive -economic -growth . 
3 Adam  Thierer,  “Ramifications  of China’s DeepSeek Moment,  Part 1: AI, Technological  Supremacy and  National 
Security,” R Street Institute, Feb. 3, 2025. https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/ramifications -of-chinas - 
deepseek -moment -part-1-ai-technological -supremacy -national -security . 
4 Haiman  Wong, “US  May  Be Losing  the Race for  Global  AI Leadership,” Dark  Reading , Sept. 25, 2024. 
https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/us -may -be-losing -the-race -for-global -ai-leadership . 
5 Adam  Thierer,  “Ramifications  of China’s DeepSeek Moment,  Part 2: AI,  Cultural  Values,  and Global  Freedom,”  R 
Street Institute, Feb. 7, 2025. https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/ramifications -of-chinas -deepseek - 
moment -part-2-ai-cultural -values -and-global -freedom . 
6 Testimony of Adam Thierer, Joint Economic  Committee, “Hearing  on Artificial Intelligence and Its  Potential to 
Fuel Economic Growth and Improve Governance,” 118th Congress, June 2024. 
https://www.rstreet.org/outreach/adam -thierer -testimony -hearing -on-artificial -intelligence -and-its-potential - 
to-fuel-economic -growth -and-improve -governance . 
7 Haiman  Wong and  Brandon  Pugh,  “Comments  of the R Street Institute’s  Cybersecurity  and Emerging Threats 
Team on the Development of  an Artificial Intelligence (AI)  Action Plan,”  R Street Institute, March 15, 2025. 
https://www.rstreet.org/outreach/comments -of-the-r-street -institutes -cybersecurity -and-emerging -threats - 
team -in-request -for-information -on-the-development -of-an-artificial -intelligence -ai-action -plan . 
8 Adam  Thierer,  “The  Policy Origins  of the Digital  Revolution  & the  Continuing  Case  for the Freedom  to Innovate,” 
R Street Institute, Aug. 15, 2024. https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/the -policy -origins -of-the-digital - 
revolution -the-continuing -case -for-the-freedom -to-innovate . 


3  Throughout  the 1990s,  U.S. policymakers  took  steps  to ensure  that modern informational and 
communications technologies (ICTs) would not be hampered by the same regulatory regime 
that constrained innovation, competition, and consumer choice in previous ICT sectors. This 
was accomplished using flexible, market -oriented governance principles for the digital 
economy.9 
This policy framework created a positive  innovation culture in which online speech and 
commerce could blossom. According to the Bureau of Economic Analysis, in 2022 alone, the 
digital economy contributed over  $4 trillion of  gross  output for  the nation, $2.6 trillion of  value 
added (translating to 10 percent of U.S. GDP), $1.3 trillion of compensation, and 8.9 million 
jobs.10 American technology firms  became global leaders  in almost every segment of  the digital 
commerce and computing marketplace. Importantly, this put America on stronger geopolitical 
footing  in both  global competitiveness  and national security.11 The United States  must  replicate 
this winning policy formula through an AI opportunity agenda.  
B. Build  upon  a proven  policy  framework  
The Trump administration’s recent AI policy statements and actions build on America’s 
successful digital technology  policy  framework  by endorsing  a pro -freedom  and opportunity - 
oriented  vision  for the next  great  technological revolution that  will help  unleash  competition 
and investment while enhancing national strength.  
The AI  executive order  (EO)  President Donald J. Trump signed on Jan.  23 rightly aims  to “solidify 
our position as the global leader in AI … to sustain and enhance America’s global AI dominance 
in order to promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security.”12 
Likewise,  in his  remarks  at the Paris  AI Action Summit last  month,  Vice  President  JD Vance  made 
AI opportunity the centerpiece of his talk:  
[O]ur administration … believes that AI will have countless revolutionary applications in 
economic innovation, job creation, national security, healthcare, free expression, and 
beyond.  And to  restrict  its development  now would  not only unfairly  benefit  incumbents 
in the space, it would  mean paralyzing one of the most promising technologies  we have 
seen in generations.13 
 
 
 
9 “The Framework  for Global  Electronic  Commerce,”  The White House,  last accessed March 12, 2025. 
https://clintonwhitehouse4.archives.gov/WH/New/Commerce . 
10 U.S. Bureau  of Economic  Analysis,  “U.S. Digital  Economy:  New  and Revised  Estimates, 2017 –2022,” Survey of 
Current Business , Dec. 6, 2023. https://apps.bea.gov/scb/issues/2023/12 -december/1223 -digital - 
economy.htm . 
11 Thierer.  https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/ramifications -of-chinas -deepseek -moment -part-1-ai- 
technological -supremacy -national -security . 
12 “Executive  Order  on Removing  Barriers to  American Leadership  in Artificial Intelligence,”  The White House, Jan. 
23, 2025. https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential -actions/2025/01/removing -barriers -to-american - 
leadership -in-artificial -intelligence . 
13 JD Vance, “Remarks by  the Vice President at the Artificial Intelligence Action Summit in Paris,  France,” The 
American  Presidency  Project,  Feb.  11, 2025. https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/remarks -the-vice- 
president -the-artificial -intelligence -action -summit -paris -france . 


4  These AI policy statements serve as a much -needed corrective to both global and domestic 
dialogue around AI governance.14 Over the past four years, much of the policy dialogue 
surrounding  AI systems  has been fear -based,  viewing  AI less as an opportunity  to embrace  and 
more as a danger to avoid.15 Had America continued down that path, the nation risked 
following the disastrous approach Europe adopted for digital technology in recent decades.  
While European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen recently claimed that “global AI 
leadership is  still up for  grabs,”  the reality  is that the European Union has  already  written itself 
out of the race by undermining its innovation culture through heavy -handed regulatory 
policies.16 Europe is suffering from a major competitiveness crisis, largely attributable to the 
many layers  of restrictive policies imposed on digital entrepreneurs.17 This growing regulatory 
compliance burden includes a complicated new AI Act already cited as a major factor driving 
some AI innovators to flee the continent.18 
The United States  has wisely committed  itself  to a different  path than Europe,  which —as Vance 
noted during his Paris address —has decimated that continent’s digital technology sector. As 
Vance correctly observed, “[E]xcessive regulation of the AI sector could kill a transformative 
industry just as it’s taking off, and we’ll make every effort to encourage pro -growth AI 
policies.”19 
Congressional lawmakers  have  likewise  stressed  how  “the  United  States  must  take  active  steps 
to safeguard our current leadership position” to “help our country remain the world’s 
undisputed leader in the responsible design, development, and deployment of AI,” as the 
Bipartisan House Task Force on Artificial Intelligence noted in December 2024.  20 
The need for American AI leadership became clearer than ever this January when Chinese AI 
developer DeepSeek released its powerful open -source “R1” model, which dominated news 
headlines  and sparked lively  debates  about  how  it represented a “Sputnik  moment”  that “casts  
 
 
 
14 Adam  Thierer,  “Vice President  JD Vance Resets  the Global  AI Agenda  with  Paris  AI Action Summit  Address,”  R 
Street Institute, Feb. 11, 2025. https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/vice -president -jd-vance -resets -the- 
global -ai-agenda -with -paris -ai-action -summit -address . 
15 Adam  Thierer,  “Trump’s New  AI Executive Order Begins  Undoing  Biden’s Bureaucratic  Mess,”  R Street  Institute, 
Jan. 23, 2025. https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/trumps -new -ai-executive -order -begins -undoing -bidens - 
bureaucratic -mess . 
16 Ursula von  der Leyen, “Speech  by President  von der Leyen  at the  Artificial Intelligence  Action Summit,” 
European Commission, Feb. 10, 2025. 
https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/speech_25_471 . 
17 Mario  Draghi,  “The  future  of European competitiveness,”  European  Commission, Sept. 9, 2024. 
https://commission.europa.eu/topics/eu -competitiveness/draghi -report_en . 
18 Siôn  Geschwindt,  “Dutch  unicorn  Bird flees  ‘overregulated’  Europe  for ‘global  hubs’  — and a meditation  
retreat,”  The Next  Web, Feb.  24, 2025. https://thenextweb.com/news/dutch -unicorn -bird-leaving -eu-due-to-ai- 
regulations . 
19 Vance.  https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/remarks -the-vice-president -the-artificial -intelligence - 
action -summit -paris -france . 
20 U.S. House  of Representatives,  “Bipartisan  House  Task  Force  Report  on Artificial  Intelligence,” 118th  Congress,  
December  2024.  https://www.speaker.gov/wp -content/uploads/2024/12/AI -Task -Force -Report -FINAL.pdf . 


5  [a] shadow on U.S. tech supremacy.”21 As Trump and other leaders noted, it served as “a 
wakeup call for  our industries  that we need to be  laser -focused on competing  to win.”22 Indeed, 
DeepSeek is already rushing to release an even more capable version of the model.23 
This “wakeup call”  reminded us  that AI supremacy  has important  implications —not just for 
innovation and competition, but also for national security.24 
It is essential that  America’s  AI Action Plan refocus  our governance  vision —and the  mission of 
administrative agencies in particular —to meet this challenge.  
C. Refocus  administrative  agencies  around  a light -touch  pro-AI agenda  and existing 
regulatory  capacity  
As the most  important  general -purpose  technology  of modern times,  AI has important  linkages 
with many other upstream and downstream technologies and industries, especially 
autonomous systems and robotics. China is catching up rapidly on the AI front, and 
unfortunately, America is behind in the robotics sector. As a recent Morgan Stanley report 
noted, “China continues  to show  the most impressive progress  in humanoid robotics.”25 This is 
why it  is critical,  as the Special Competitive Studies  Project  has noted,  for the administration to 
“[u]ndertake a comprehensive review and reform of existing regulations that impact the 
development, deployment, and use of AI and other emerging technologies” in an attempt to 
streamline or eliminate obstacles to investment in all related sectors.26 
Toward that  end,  the administration’s  new  EO, “Ensuring  Accountability  for All Agencies,” 
correctly identified how independent regulatory agencies “currently exercise substantial  
executive  authority  without  sufficient  accountability,”  and “have  been  permitted  to promulgate 
significant regulations without review by the President.”27 A subsequent EO, “Ensuring Lawful 
Governance and Implementing the President’s ‘Department of Government Efficiency’  
Deregulatory  Initiative,” signaled the  administration’s  intent  to “focus  the executive  branch’s 
limited enforcement resources on regulations squarely authorized by constitutional Federal  
 
 
21 Daria Solovieva,  “DeepSeek’s  breakthrough casts  shadow  on US  tech  supremacy,” Salon , Feb.  28, 2025. 
https://www.salon.com/2025/02/28/deepseeks -breakthrough -casts -shadow -on-us-tech -supremacy . 
22 “Trump: DeepSeek’s AI should be a ‘wakeup call’ to US  industry,” Reuters , Jan. 28, 2025. 
https://www.reuters.com/world/us/trump -deepseeks -ai-should -be-wakeup -call-us-industry -2025 -01-27. 
23 Eduardo Baptista et al., “DeepSeek  rushes  to launch new AI  model as  China goes  all in,” Reuters , Feb. 25,  2025. 
https://www.reuters.com/technology/artificial -intelligence/deepseek -rushes -launch -new -ai-model -china -goes - 
all-2025 -02-25. 
24 Haiman Wong, “DeepSeek’s cybersecurity failures expose a bigger risk. Here’s what we really should be 
watching,”  R Street  Institute,  Feb. 4,  2025. https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/deepseeks -cybersecurity - 
failures -expose -a-bigger -risk-heres -what -we-really -should -be-watching . 
25 Adam  Jonas  et al., “The Humanoid 100: Mapping  the Humanoid  Robot  Value  Chain,” Morgan  Stanley,  Feb.  6, 
2025. https://advisor.morganstanley.com/john.howard/documents/field/j/jo/john - 
howard/The_Humanoid_100_ -_Mapping_the_Humanoid_Robot_Value_Chain.pdf . 
26 “Memorandum for President  Trump  on AI Governance,”  Special Competitive Studies  Project,  last accessed 
March 12, 2025.  https://www.scsp.ai/reports/memostothepresident/governance -2. 
27 “Executive  Order  on Ensuring  Accountability  for All Agencies,”  The White  House,  Feb.  18, 2025.  
https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential -actions/2025/02/ensuring -accountability -for-all-agencies . 


6  statutes,  and to commence  the deconstruction  of the overbearing  and burdensome 
administrative state.”28 
The administration must provide agencies with additional guidance on AI -specific issues, 
building  on guidance  established by the  previous  Trump administration’s  Office  of Management 
and Budget in its January 2020 memorandum to heads of federal departments and agencies, 
titled “Guidance for Regulation of Artificial Intelligence Applications” (hereafter referred to as 
the AI Guidance Memorandum).29 This memorandum flowed from an EO Trump issued in 
February 2019, “Maintaining American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence.”30 
That EO sought to “reduce barriers to the use of AI technologies” and “help Federal regulatory 
agencies develop and maintain approaches for the safe and trustworthy creation and adoption 
of new  AI technologies.”31 The AI  Guidance Memorandum instructed agency heads  to “consider 
ways to reduce barriers to the development and adoption of AI technologies” and “avoid 
regulatory or non -regulatory actions that needlessly hamper AI innovation and growth.”32 It 
also encouraged agencies  to clarify  “inconsistent,  burdensome,  and duplicative”  AI-related laws 
promulgated by states and localities and be open to “non -regulatory approaches to AI” 
governance.33 Additionally,  it highlighted how  three  specific  mechanisms —sector -specific  policy 
frameworks, pilot programs and experiments, and voluntary consensus standards —should be 
strongly considered as ways to address AI -related concerns.  
Crucially, the AI Guidance Memorandum said agencies “must avoid a precautionary approach 
that holds AI systems to such an impossibly high standard that society cannot enjoy their 
benefits. Where AI entails risk, agencies should consider the potential benefits and  costs of 
employing AI, when compared to the systems AI has been designed to complement or 
replace.”34 This is a wise  standard for  AI regulatory  oversight  because  it ensures  innovators  are 
not treated as “guilty until proven innocent” of hypothetical harms associated with products 
that have not yet been developed or widely deployed.35 
 
 
 
 
 
28 “Executive Order on Ensuring Lawful Governance and Implementing the President’s ‘Department of 
Government Efficiency’ Deregulatory Initiative,” The White House, Feb. 19, 2025. 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential -actions/2025/02/ensuring -lawful -governance -and-implementing - 
the-presidents -department -of-government -efficiency -regulatory -initiative . 
29 Russell T. Vought, “Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies,” Office of 
Management  and Budget,  Nov.  17, 2020. https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp -content/uploads/2020/11/M -21- 
06.pdf . 
30 84 Fed.  Reg. 3967  (Feb. 11, 2019).  https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2019/02/14/2019 - 
02544/maintaining -american -leadership -in-artificial -intelligence . 
31 Ibid. 
32 Vought.  https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp -content/uploads/2020/11/M -21-06.pdf . 
33 Ibid. 
34 Ibid. 
35 Testimony  of Adam  Thierer, House Subcommittee  on Cybersecurity, Information  Technology, and  Government 
Innovation, “Hearing on White House Overreach on AI,” 118th Congress, March 2024. 
https://www.rstreet.org/outreach/adam -thierer -testimony -hearing -on-white -house -overreach -on-ai. 


7  The administration should ensure  that its EOs and policy  statements  guide and encourage 
agencies  to follow  several  specific  principles  that can advance  an AI  opportunity  agenda:36 
● Adopt  a flexible,  risk-based approach to  AI governance  that relies on ongoing  multi - 
stakeholder negotiations and evolving consensus -based standards more closely 
matched to rapidly changing algorithmic systems than overly rigid regulations.  
● Avoid regulating  algorithmic  system  inputs,  focusing  on their  outputs  and outcomes 
instead.37 
● Target  policies  using  a sectoral approach  that breaks  down  AI policy  into smaller,  more 
manageable elements, responding to new risks as they emerge.  
Rather than issuing broad new regulatory edicts based on the hypothetical harms of future AI 
products, agencies should enforce existing laws or other remedies on an as -needed basis. It is 
essential to remember that, in many cases, “the best AI law may be one that already exists.”38 
There is no need to develop an entirely new regulatory superstructure for AI systems when so 
many  other  remedies  exist. These  include  existing  legal tools  like product  recall authority,  unfair 
and deceptive practices law, and civil rights laws, as well as court -based common law 
remedies.39 This approach represents a more flexible way to manage potential AI risks than a 
top-down, ex -ante regulatory regime that would limit AI’s potential.40 
D. Partner  with  Congress  to advance  a national  AI policy  framework  
The administration should work closely with Congress to advance an AI opportunity agenda 
that reiterates  the importance  of the successful policy  vision  that worked  so effectively  for the 
internet and digital commerce.  
1. Work  with  Congress  to better  define  and target  agency  AI authority  
While the administration works to craft AI guidance to executive agencies, Congress will need 
to exercise greater oversight authority over the many agencies that already regulate 
algorithmic  systems  in specific  sectors, requiring  them  to “address  how  existing  regulations  are 
hindering  progress.”41 
The administration should also encourage Congress to take lead on questions related to AI 
safety  and data privacy  and,  if needed,  authorize  additional technical resources  to agencies  that 
 
36 Adam  Thierer,  “Artificial Intelligence Task Force: 10 Principles  to Guide  AI Policy,” R Street Institute, Feb. 21, 
2024.   https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/artificial -intelligence -task-force -10-principles -to-guide -ai-policy . 
37 Jay Obernolte,  “The  Role  of Congress  in Regulating  Artificial  Intelligence,”  The Ripon  Forum  57:3 (June  2023),  
pp. 4-6. https://riponsociety.org/article/the -role-of-congress -in-regulating -artificial -intelligence ; Adam  Thierer, 
“The Most Important Principle for AI  Regulation,” R Street Institute, June 21,  2023. 
https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/the -most -important -principle -for-ai-regulation . 
38 Will Rinehart,  “The  Best  AI Law May  Be One That  Already Exists,”  American  Enterprise  Institute,  Feb. 3,  2025. 
https://www.aei.org/articles/the -best -ai-law-may-be-one-that-already -exists . 
39 Adam Thierer, “Flexible, Pro -Innovation Governance Strategies for Artificial Intelligence,” R Street Policy Study 
No. 283 (April 2023),  p. 2. https://www.rstreet.org/research/flexible -pro-innovation -governance -strategies -for- 
artificial -intelligence . 
40 Thierer.  https://www.rstreet.org/outreach/adam -thierer -testimony -hearing -on-artificial -intelligence -and-its- 
potential -to-fuel-economic -growth -and-improve -governance . 
41 Jason  Furman,  “How  to Regulate  AI Without  Stifling  Innovation,”  The Wall  Street  Journal , Nov.  21, 2024.  
https://www.wsj.com/opinion/how -to-regulate -ai-without -stifling -innovation -regulation -eu-licensing -a2f0d8af . 


8  already address AI -related issues. This includes issues related to the powers of the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and the U.S. AI Safety Institute, which the Biden 
administration created without statutory authorization and then transferred into NIST.42 The 
administration should work  with Congress  to ensure  that NIST’s  voluntary,  flexible  governance 
approach remains intact without taking on a more aggressive regulatory stance for AI.43 
Congress must still take action on data privacy issues; however, privacy should be addressed 
separately from  AI provisions  within any  privacy  bill. Technologies  like AI also have  potential to 
enhance privacy, reinforcing the need to maintain a pro -innovation environment for their 
development.44 
2. Help  Congress  craft  a framework for  preemption  of state  AI regulatory  patchwork  
Most importantly, the administration should work with lawmakers to establish a national  AI 
policy  framework.  A patchwork  of different  state  and local regulatory  regimes  will threaten  the 
administration’s  AI opportunity agenda.45 Rep. Jay Obernolte (R -Calif.), who chaired the House 
Task Force on Artificial Intelligence last session, has argued, “AI is very clearly an interstate 
commerce issue, and I think that, predominantly, regulation of AI needs to be done at the 
federal level, if  you allow 50 different state regulations  to exist … [that]  is an enormous  barrier 
to entry for innovation.”46 
Some state leaders agree. Last May, Gov. Jared Polis (D -Colo.) signed a major AI regulatory 
measure into law while noting that state AI regulations like his could create “a complex 
compliance regime for all developers and deployers of AI” and a patchwork of mandates that 
will “tamper  innovation and deter  competition.”47 Polis  called for  Congress  to create  “a needed 
cohesive federal approach … to limit and preempt varied compliance burdens on innovators 
and ensure a level playing field across state lines along with ensuring access to life -saving and 
money -saving AI technologies for consumers.”48 
A patchwork of state and local mandates could derail the AI opportunity agenda  by raising 
compliance  costs,  limiting  new  entry  and investment,  and discouraging  new  product  launches. 
A leading venture capital firm argues that while some large tech players might have the  
 
42 “At the Direction of  President Biden, Department of  Commerce to Establish U.S.  Artificial Intelligence Safety 
Institute to Lead Efforts on AI Safety,”  U.S. Department of Commerce, Nov. 1, 2023. 
https://www.commerce.gov/news/press -releases/2023/11/direction -president -biden -department -commerce - 
establish -us-artificial . 
43 Haiman  Wong and  Brandon  Pugh,  “Key Cybersecurity  and AI Policy Priorities  for Trump’s Second  Administration 
and the 119th Congress,”  R Street Institute,  January  2025. https://www.rstreet.org/research/key -cybersecurity - 
and-ai-policy -priorities -for-trumps -second -administration -and-the-119th -congress . 
44 Brandon  Pugh  and Steven  Ward, “Key Data Privacy and  Security  Priorities for 2025,”  R Street Institute, January 
2025. https://www.rstreet.org/research/key -data -privacy -and-security -priorities -for-2025 . 
45 Adam  Thierer,  “State  and local meddling  threatens  to undermine  the AI  revolution,” The Hill, Jan. 21, 2024. 
https://thehill.com/opinion/4420144 -state -and-local -meddling -threatens -to-undermine -the-ai-revolution . 
46 Mariam  Baksh, “Rep. Obernolte  promotes AI  select committee,  notes  ongoing  open -source debate,” Inside  AI 
Policy, Feb. 12, 2025.  https://insideaipolicy.com/ai -daily -news/rep -obernolte -promotes -ai-select -committee - 
notes -ongoing -open -source -debate . 
47 Gov. Jared Polis, Signing Statement for Senate Bill 24 -205, May 17, 2024. 
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1i2cA3IG93VViNbzXu9LPgbTrZGqhyRgM/view . 
48 Ibid. 


9  resources  to deal with  these  complexities,  “[s]tartups  don’t  have these  luxuries,”  and that  this 
would “cripple Little Tech and hinder American efforts to compete with AI development in  
other  countries.”49 Federal preemption  will be  needed  to “help  ensure  the U.S. remains  a digital 
single market —unlike the fractured EU,” as a former chairman of the White House Council of 
Economic Advisers has stressed.50 
3. Consider  a “learning  period  moratorium”  that  gives  AI room  to grow  
Short of plenary preemption, Congress could use a “learning period moratorium” to limit the 
creation of new AI -related regulations at the federal, state, and local levels for a set period.51 
Congress has used moratoria in the past to encourage the growth of other markets and 
technologies. The Internet Tax Freedom Act of 1998 (made permanent in 2016) prevented the 
development of “multiple and discriminatory taxes” on electronic commerce and internet 
access by state and local governments. Similarly, the Commercial Space Launch Amendments 
Act of 2004  ensured federal regulators  did not  overregulate  the nascent  market  for commercial 
human spaceflight when it was still on the drawing board.  
Calibrating the scope of federal preemption or an AI learning period moratorium will be 
challenging, but the administration must work with Congress to help lawmakers fashion a 
workable  national framework  before  excessive  layers  of burdensome  red tape  undermine  AI 
opportunity for the nation as a whole.  
III. Targeted  Strategies  to Advance  an AI Opportunity  Agenda  
This section offers  specific  policy  recommendations  to help  advance  an AI  opportunity  agenda.  
A. Ensure  open -source  AI plays  a continued  role 
The administration must  ensure  that open -source  providers  and applications  play a major  role 
in America’s AI ecosystem.52 Overly burdensome AI regulations will hit open -source systems 
harder than closed ones.53 The collaborative and evolutionary nature of open -source 
applications helps inject new ideas and competition into the digital marketplace.  
 
 
 
 
49 Matt Perault, “Setting  the Agenda for Global AI Leadership: Assessing the Roles of  Congress and the States,” 
Andreesen  Horowitz,  Feb.  4, 2025.  https://a16z.com/setting -the-agenda -for-global -ai-leadership -assessing -the- 
roles -of-congress -and-the-states . 
50 Furman.  https://www.wsj.com/opinion/how -to-regulate -ai-without -stifling -innovation -regulation -eu-licensing - 
a2f0d8af . 
51 Adam  Thierer,  “Getting  AI Policy Right Through a Learning Period Moratorium,”  R Street Institute, May  29, 
2024.  https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/getting -ai-policy -right -through -a-learning -period -moratorium . 
52 Adam Thierer, “Policymakers Should Let Open Source Play a Role in the AI Revolution,” R Street Institute, 
March  28, 2024.  https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/policymakers -should -let-open -source -play-a-role-in- 
the-ai-revolution . 
53 Adam  Thierer,  “R Street  Submits Regulatory  Comments  for the National  Telecommunications  and Information 
Administration’s (NTIA)  ‘Openness in AI Request for Comment’,” Docket No. 240216 -0052, March 20, 2024. 
https://www.rstreet.org/outreach/r -street -submits -regulatory -comments -for-the-national - 
telecommunications -and-information -administrations -ntia-openness -in-ai-request -for-comment . 


10  U.S.-based open -source innovation is crucial, as China has made important advances using 
open -source  systems, such  as DeepSeek -R1.54 Open  source  has helped  China close  the gap with 
America, and if the nation restricts our own open -source capabilities, Chinese systems will fill 
that gap.55 This is why  experts stress that  America “must  win the  global open source  AI race”  to 
ensure American systems and values remain at the forefront of this global technology 
revolution.56 While some critics want to limit open -source capabilities, policy flexibility and 
regulatory forbearance are essential.57 Vance has strongly supported open -source AI, and the 
Biden administration was also supportive, meaning that strong bipartisan support exists.58 
B. Ensure  America  wins  the talent  war 
The geopolitical AI “race” is as much about “talent dominance” as technological dominance.59 
In recent years, the United States has benefited from the equivalent of an AI talent “brain 
drain”  from  China,  with  many  talented students  and entrepreneurs  coming  to America to  study 
and create new firms.60 A talent influx from other nations over the past quarter -century also 
helped the United States dominate the digital revolution.  
When the world’s  most  brilliant  and entrepreneurial minds  come to our  shores  to pursue the 
American dream,  it helps  our nation achieve  greater  technological success  globally. However, 
this situation may be reversing with China now producing and retaining more skilled AI 
engineers and workers.61 The administration must carefully calibrate immigration policies to 
ensure continued U.S. talent dominance in AI as this “talent war” intensifies.62 
C. Avoid  overreach  on export  controls  
In its last major technology policy action, the Biden administration announced a  major 
expansion of  export  controls  on AI  systems  and related technologies.63 Analysts  argued that  the 
 
54 Aaron Tan, “The rise and rise of  open source in China,” Computer Weekly , Aug. 22, 2024. 
https://www.computerweekly.com/news/366608127/The -rise-and-rise-of-open -source -in-China . 
55 Meaghan  Tobin  and Cade Metz,  “China Is  Closing  the A.I. Gap With  the United  States,” The New  York Times , July 
25, 2024. https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/25/technology/china -open -source -ai.html . 
56 Keegan McBride  and Dean W. Ball, “The United States Must Win The  Global Open Source  AI Race,” Just 
Security , Nov 7, 2024.  https://www.justsecurity.org/104676/american -ai-leadership -requires -support -open - 
source . 
57 Ben Brooks,  “If China  shares  AI, the  US can’t  afford  to lock it  out,” The Hill , Feb. 6,  2025. 
https://thehill.com/opinion/technology/5123855 -open -source -ai-deepseek . 
58 Adam  Thierer,  “Regulators  are misguided  in efforts to restrict  open -source  AI,” Cointelegraph , July 31, 2024. 
https://cointelegraph.com/news/regulators -misguided -efforts -limit -open -source -ai. 
59 John  Bailey, “America can’t  afford  to lose the  high -skilled  talent race in  today’s competitive  markets,” The Hill, 
Jan. 11, 2025. https://thehill.com/opinion/technology/5078928 -talent -dominance -agenda -immigration . 
60 Karen Hao,  “China’s  path  to AI domination  has a problem:  brain drain,” MIT Technology Review , Aug. 7,  2019. 
https://www.technologyreview.com/2019/08/07/133830/china -ai-domination -losing -talent -to-us. 
61 Paul Mozur  and Cade  Metz, “In  One Key A.I.  Metric,  China  Pulls  Ahead  of the U.S.: Talent,” The New York  Times , 
March 22, 2024. https://www.nytimes.com/2024/03/22/technology/china -ai-talent.html . 
62 Isobel  Asher  Hamilton,  “The  Next  Big US-China  Trade  War  is Over  AI Talent,”  The Daily  Upside , May  17, 2024.  
https://www.thedailyupside.com/technology/artificial -intelligence/the -next -big-us-china -trade -war-is-over -ai- 
talent . 
63 90 Fed.  Reg.  4544  (Jan.  15, 2025).  https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/01/15/2025 - 
00636/framework -for-artificial -intelligence -diffusion . 


11  “sweeping,  interventionist  framework,”  represents “what  may  be the most  ambitious  exercise 
of technological statecraft in modern history.”64 The Trump administration must revise and 
limit these rules to safeguard U.S. leadership in AI and ensure these new regulations do not 
undermine advanced computation.65 While some hardware -side controls will still play a role, 
the United States cannot hold back all Chinese technical advances by limiting American 
innovation.66 
The lesson of recent Chinese advances like DeepSeek -R1 is  that “[p]ublic policy can diminish 
Chinese  computing  power;  it cannot  weaken the  minds  of China’s  finest  researchers.”67 Even 
with various export controls and other domestic computing constraints in place, Chinese AI 
developers have made major technological advances —especially with open -source 
capabilities.68 
Thus, the United States “must focus on competition and outcompeting its geopolitical rivals in 
the development, implementation, and diffusion of AI -based systems domestically and 
internationally instead of an expert -control -first approach.”69 The key to maintaining global AI 
leadership is to remain on the cutting edge of the technological frontier.  
D. Ensure  diverse,  competitive  energy  markets  for AI  advancement  
U.S. Secretary of the Interior Doug Burgum recently told state lawmakers that America’s AI 
superiority  is fundamentally  linked to  our nation’s  ability  to generate  adequate  energy  to power 
advanced computational systems. “[I]t's key that we win the AI arms race with China,” he 
noted.70 Many in the tech industry consider electric supply restrictions the largest barrier to 
domestic AI advancement.71 Aside from supply chain issues, electricity restrictions  are largely a 
self-imposed problem that increases costs and reliability risk.72 RSI research found the primary  
 
 
64 Barath Harithas,  “The  AI Diffusion  Framework:  Securing  U.S. AI Leadership While Preempting  Strategic  Drift,” 
Center for Strategic and International Studies, Feb. 18, 2025. https://www.csis.org/analysis/ai -diffusion - 
framework -securing -us-ai-leadership -while -preempting -strategic -drift. 
65 John Villasenor, “The new  AI diffusion export control rule will undermine US AI leadership,” Brookings 
Institution,  Jan. 23, 2025.  https://www.brookings.edu/articles/the -new -ai-diffusion -export -control -rule-will- 
undermine -us-ai-leadership . 
66 John  Villasenor,  “DeepSeek shows  the limits  of US export controls  on AI chips,”  Brookings Institution  , Jan. 29, 
2025. https://www.brookings.edu/articles/deepseek -shows -the-limits -of-us-export -controls -on-ai-chips . 
67 Dean W.  Ball,  “What DeepSeek  r1 Means —and What  It Doesn’t,” Lawfare , Jan.  28, 2025. 
https://www.lawfaremedia.org/article/what -deepseek -r1-means -and-what -it-doesn -t. 
68 Kimberley Kao  and Raffaele Huang, “Chips  or Not,  Chinese  AI Pushes  Ahead,”  The Wall Street  Journal , Aug. 23, 
2024. https://www.wsj.com/tech/ai/chips -or-not-chinese -ai-pushes -ahead -31034e3d . 
69 Matthew  Mittelsteadt  and Keegan McBride,  “Competition,  Not Control,  is Key to Winning the  Global AI Race,” 
Just Security , Sept.  17, 2024. https://www.justsecurity.org/100130/competition -not-control -is-key-to-winning - 
the-global -ai-race . 
70 Dorothy  Mills -Gregg, “Interior Secretary  Burgum:  Energy growth is vital in ‘AI  arms  race’ with China,” Inside AI 
Policy , Feb.  24, 2025.  https://insideaipolicy.com/ai -daily -news/interior -secretary -burgum -energy -growth -vital - 
ai-arms -race -china . 
71 Jason  Plautz,  “Energy is AI’s  barrier to entry. David  Sacks knows  it,” E&E News , Feb. 11,  2025. 
https://www.eenews.net/articles/energy -is-ais-barrier -to-entry -david -sacks -knows -it. 
72 Testimony  of Devin  Hartman,  House  Committee  on Oversight  and Accountability,  “Hearing  on The Power  
Struggle:  Examining  the Reliability  and Security  of America’s  Electrical  Grid,” 118th  Congress,  March  12, 2024.  


12  problems are regulatory barriers to development and government -sanctioned monopoly 
utilities.73 Thus, the answer warrants stronger markets, not panicked interventions. Such 
resolutions  are highly  compatible  with  the spirit  of Trump’s  EO to unleash American energy.74 
Success  will require  unleashing  all forms  of American energy.  This includes  power  plants  with 
sufficient  private -sector  appetite,  which  run primarily  on natural  gas, nuclear,  and renewable 
energy. Unleashing the development of transmission lines to connect power plants to 
customers is also important. Three ways in which the administration could address these 
barriers  include:  
1. Removing  barriers  to energy  supplier  choice  for datacenter  developers  
Large energy consumers want the right to choose a competitive energy supplier that has 
developed faster, lower -cost, and more innovative solutions for datacenters than monopoly 
utilities.75 It is important  to removing  discriminatory  regulatory  practices,  such as  restrictions 
on co -locating power plants and datacenters, while ensuring grid infrastructure costs are 
generally allocated to those who cause them.76 
2. Finishing  generator  interconnection  reform77 
It typically takes an unacceptable five years for new power plants to secure an agreement with 
grid operators  to connect  to the grid.78 In 2023,  the Federal Energy  Regulatory  Commission took 
bipartisan steps in the right direction; however, this administration should prioritize key  
reforms left unresolved by the agency.79 
3. Streamlining  permitting  and siting  of all electric  infrastructure80 
 
 
 
 
https://www.rstreet.org/outreach/letter -to-the-house -committee -on-oversight -accountability -about -grid- 
reliability . 
73 Devin Hartman  and Olivia  Manzagol,  “AI’s  Energy Footprint  Warrants Markets, Not  Panic,”  R Street  Institute, 
Sept. 26, 2024. https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/ais -energy -footprint -warrants -markets -not-panic . 
74 “Executive Order on Unleashing American Energy,” The White House, Jan. 20, 2025. 
https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential -actions/2025/01/unleashing -american -energy . 
75 Hartman  and Manzagol.  https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/ais -energy -footprint -warrants -markets -not- 
panic . 
76 Testimony  of Kent  Chandler,  Federal  Energy Regulatory  Commission,  “Commissioner -led Technical  Conference 
Regarding Large Loads Co -located at Generating Facilities,” 118th Congress, Nov. 1, 2024. 
https://www.rstreet.org/outreach/r -street -testimony -on-co-location -of-large -loads -with -generation . 
77 Devin Hartman  and Beth Garza,  “Finishing  Generator Interconnection  Reform,”  R Street  Institute,  Dec.  5, 2023. 
https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/finishing -generator -interconnection -reform . 
78 Joseph  Rand  et al., “Queued Up:  Characteristics of  Power Plants Seeking Transmission  Interconnection,” 
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, 2025. https://emp.lbl.gov/queues . 
79 Devin Hartman  and Beth Garza,  “R Street Input  to FERC’s  Generator  Interconnection Workshop,”  Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission: Generator Interconnection Workshop, May 6, 2024. 
https://www.rstreet.org/outreach/r -street -input -to-fercs -generator -interconnection -workshop . 
80 Philip Rossetti, “Low -Energy Fridays:  Why is Judicial Review  Important for Permitting Reform?” R Street 
Institute,  Sept.  13, 2024.  https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/low -energy -fridays -why-is-judicial -review - 
important -for-permitting -reform . 


13  It is essential to reduce  litigation risk,  provide  better  project  information to  state  authorities, 
and refine federal backstop authority for interstate pipelines and transmission approvals.81 
These  reforms will ensure  today’s  technologies  meet  datacenter  power  demand affordably  and 
quickly.  In the  long  term,  it is also important  to ensure  the United States  takes  the lead in next - 
generation technologies like advanced nuclear, carbon capture, and energy  
storage.  Improving  the transparency,  accountability,  and performance  of Department  of Energy 
research and early deployment programs would drive innovation and put taxpayer dollars to 
better  use.82 
E. Strike  a sensible  balance  on AI and copyright  
AI has led to significant advancements in creative industries. With the ability to analyze and 
process  vast amounts  of data, AI has  the potential to revolutionize the way content is  created, 
consumed,  and distributed.  Yet many content creators  view  AI as a threat  rather  than a tool to 
further  their  work. Copyright concerns  have been raised with respect to both the data used to 
train AI models and the outputs generated through these models. While the evolution of AI 
may raise novel questions, we believe that existing  copyright law is  suitably flexible to address 
AI-related concerns.  Copyright  law allows  issues  to be  examined on a case -by-case  basis,  which 
is far superior to attempting to impose a new regulatory framework that could hamper the 
broader  evolution of  AI technologies.  It is important  to remember  that although copyright  laws 
are designed to provide incentives for  creators  to produce original works, the principles of fair 
use and exceptions are also important.  
Fair use is crucial in promoting innovation and creativity in various fields including education, 
research, journalism, and criticism.83 These principles must be part of any attempt to apply 
copyright  to issues  surrounding  AI. For example,  AI training  on copyrighted works  should qualify 
as non -infringing or fair use because AI is learning ideas rather than reproducing specific 
expressions. Attempting to establish a licensing framework for AI training data would create 
significant economic barriers, stifle innovation, and potentially lead to market monopolization 
by large tech companies with the resources required to operate under a licensing regime.  
Additionally, when examining the output of AI models, authorship requires human action 
because  copyright  protects  a creator’s  expression.84 AI-generated outputs  that lack significant  
 
81 Devin Hartman  et al., “State  and Local  Permitting  for the Energy Sector:  Challenges  and Opportunities,” R Street 
Policy Study No. 313 (November 2024). https://www.rstreet.org/research/state -and-local -permitting -for-the- 
energy -sector -challenges -and-opportunities . 
82 Testimony  of Devin Hartman, Subcommittee  on Energy, House Committee  on Energy and Commerce, “Hearing 
on Federal Energy Related  Tax Policy and  its Effects  on Markets, Prices  and Consumers,”  115th  Congress, March 
29, 2017. https://docs.house.gov/meetings/IF/IF03/20170329/105798/HHRG -115-IF03 -Wstate -HartmanD - 
20170329.pdf . 
83 Wayne Brough and Ahmad Nazeri, “Regulatory Comments Before the U.S. Copyright Office Library of  Congress 
In the Matter of  Artificial Intelligence and Copyright,”  Docket No. 2023 -6, Oct. 27, 2023. 
https://www.rstreet.org/outreach/regulatory -comments -before -the-u-s-copyright -office -library -of-congress -in- 
the-matter -of-artificial -intelligence -and-copyright . 
84 Ahmad Nazeri,  “The  Soul  of Creativity in  Copyright:  From Inspiration  to Information,”  R Street Institute, March 
5, 2024. https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/the -soul-of-creativity -in-copyright -from -inspiration -to- 
information . 


14  human input may yield autonomous AI creations that belong in the public domain. The U.S. 
Copyright Office recently released a report emphasizing the need for human creativity to 
warrant copyright protection. The report concludes that copyright is flexible and can adapt to 
new  technologies,  noting  that “existing  legal doctrines  are adequate  and appropriate  to resolve 
questions of copyrightability.”85 Expanding copyright law to create new property rights could 
substantially impede AI development and deployment, contradicting copyright’s constitutional 
purpose of promoting progress of science and useful arts.  
F. Reiterate  the importance  of First  Amendment  rights in  the algorithmic  age 
Algorithmic  and computational systems  are information systems, meaning  free speech issues 
come into play when governments  act to restrict AI systems. Governments  around the globe 
have spent decades looking to censor online speech, and some now want to extend those 
control  efforts  to AI systems.86 Authoritarian  nations  like China  have  already  moved  to extend 
digital repression and simultaneously export  their  values  and influence more broadly using  AI 
tools.87 
Even domestically, regulators or other policymakers could look to “weaponize” algorithmic 
systems against certain groups or individuals.88 As the president of the Foundation for 
Individual Rights and Expression noted during congressional testimony last year, “[T]he most 
chilling  threat  that the government  poses  in the  context  of emerging  AI is regulatory  overreach 
that limits its potential as a tool for contributing to human knowledge.”89 “The end result of 
pushing too hard on AI regulation,” he continued, would be  a concentration of dangerous  
control.  “Far  from  reining  in the  government’s  misuse  of AI to censor, we  will have  created the 
framework not only to censor but also to dominate  and distort the production of knowledge 
itself.”90 
This is why a strong  defense  of First  Amendment  values  is needed,  especially  with American 
firms and citizens coming under greater attack from other nations.91 The administration’s 
recent EO “Restoring Freedom of Speech and Ending Federal Censorship” argued that  
 
 
85 Register  of Copyrights,  “Copyright  and Artificial  Intelligence Part  2: Copyrightability,”  U.S. Copyright Office, 
January 2025. https://www.copyright.gov/ai/Copyright -and-Artificial -Intelligence -Part-2-Copyrightability - 
Report.pdf . 
86 Patricia Moloney Figliola, “Promoting Global Internet Freedom: Government and Industry Initiatives,” 
Congressional  Research Service , June  1, 2016.  https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/R/R41837/17 . 
87 Kayla  Blomquist and Keegan  McBride, “It’s Not Just Technology: What it Means to be  a Global Leader  in AI,” 
Just Security , Jan. 4, 2024. https://www.justsecurity.org/90757/its -not-just-technology -what -it-means -to-be-a- 
global -leader -in-ai. 
88 Adam  Thierer,  “AI and Technologies of  Freedom in  the Age of ‘Weaponized’  Government,” R  Street  Institute, 
Feb. 8, 2024. https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/ai -and-technologies -of-freedom -in-the-age-of- 
weaponized -government . 
89 Testimony  of Greg Lukianoff, Select  Subcommittee  on the Weaponization  of the Federal  Government,  “Hearing 
on the Weaponization of the Federal Government,” 118th Congress, February 2024. 
https://judiciary.house.gov/committee -activity/hearings/hearing -weaponization -federal -government -5. 
90 Ibid. 
91 Jonathan  Cannon  and Adam Thierer,  “The  New Information  Control,”  R Street  Institute,  Sept.  3, 2024. 
https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/the -new -information -control . 


15  “government  censorship  of speech  is intolerable  in a free  society”  and that  some  recent  efforts 
to regulate misinformation or disinformation have crossed that line.92 
While Section 230 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 has drawn some criticism, it has 
played  an essential role  in protecting  digital speech  and commerce by  allowing  the internet  to 
flourish without fear  of frivolous  lawsuits.93 It will continue to play an  important role in the AI 
era, and lawmakers should be careful not to upset the liability protections it offers. Without 
these protections, a flood of litigation against AI entrepreneurs or citizens using new 
algorithmic tools could undermine algorithmic innovation. Optimally, Section 230 protections 
would extend to new AI systems; at minimum, lawmakers must preserve the law for existing 
speech and commerce.94 
IV. Conclusion  
To ensure the United States maintains its leadership in AI development and technological 
innovation,  the AI Action Plan must promote  innovation,  growth,  and opportunity. By  building 
on America’s winning policy formula for the internet and digital commerce and speech, the 
United States can once again lead the next great technological revolution.  
Respectfully  submitted, 
Adam Thierer  
Senior  Fellow,  Technology  and Innovation  
R Street  Institute  
 
 
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business - 
proprietary or  confidential  information.  Document  contents  may  be reused by  the government 
in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
92 “Executive Order  on Restoring  Freedom  of Speech and  Ending  Federal  Censorship,”  The White House, Jan. 20, 
2025. https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential -actions/2025/01/restoring -freedom -of-speech -and-ending - 
federal -censorship . 
93 Shoshana  Weissmann  and Canyon  Brimhall,  “What  Section  230 really  does  and why it’s vital  for your  free 
speech  online,” The Detroit News , Feb.  6, 2021.  https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/what -section -230-really - 
does -and-why-its-vital-for-your -free-speech -online . 
94 Adam  Thierer  and Shoshana  Weissmann,  “Without Section 230 Protections,  Generative AI  Innovation  Will Be 
Decimated,” R Street Institute, Dec. 6, 2023. https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/without -section -230- 
protections -generative -ai-innovation -will-be-decimated . 


