pg. 112010 Sunset Hills Rd, Reston, VA 20190  
 |  saic.com 
March 15, 2025 
Mr. Faisal D’Souza 
National Coordination Office  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Email Submission:  Document Number: 2025-02305 
Re:  SAIC Response to the Request for Information (RFI) on the development of an “AI 
Action Plan” 
Dear Mr. D’Souza:  
Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC)1 appreciates the opportunity to respond to the 
Request for Information (RFI) regarding the development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan.  
As a leading federal technology integrator, SAIC plays a critical role in deploying AI solutions across 
government missions, ensuring that AI technologies are effectively and securely integrated into operational 
environments.  
SAIC is solving our nation's most complex modernization and readiness challenges across the defense, 
space, federal civilian, and intelligence markets. Our robust portfolio of offerings includes high-end 
solutions in systems engineering and integration; enterprise IT, including cloud services; cybersecurity; 
software; and advanced analytics, AI, ML, and data sciences. Our expertise in AI enables us to deliver 
innovative solutions that support mission decision making, governmental efficiency, and mission success. 
Given our intimate understanding of our customers' challenges and deep expertise in existing and 
emerging technologies, SAIC recognizes the immense impact AI will continue to have on all facets of the 
U.S. government and the critical role policy plays in sustaining and expanding America’s AI dominance. We 
commend the Administration’s efforts to enhance U.S. leadership in AI and offer the following 
recommendations to redefine the federal approach to AI policy and establish a thriving AI ecosystem.  
1 SAIC a premier Fortune 500® technology integrator focused on advancing the power of technology and innovation to serve 
and protect our world. Our robust portfolio of offerings across the defense, space, civilian and intelligence markets includes 
secure high-end solutions in mission IT, enterprise IT, engineering services and professional services. We integrate emerging 
technology, rapidly and securely, into mission critical operations that modernize and enable critical national imperatives. 
We are approximately 24,000 strong; driven by mission, united by purpose, and inspired by opportunities. Headquartered in 
Reston, Virginia, SAIC has annual revenues of approximately $7.4 billion. For more information, visit saic.com.  


pg. 212010 Sunset Hills Rd, Reston, VA 20190  
 |  saic.com 
Recommended Policy Actions for Right-Sized Governance
As AI technology continues to evolve, its application within government agencies has already 
demonstrated significant efficiencies and cost savings, benefiting both the government and taxpayers. 
Moving forward, it is imperative to explore and encourage the broader adoption of AI and Machine 
Learning (ML) solutions across various government sectors. By implementing right-sized actions, we can 
ensure that AI not only supports government mission delivery but also improves transparency, increases 
the speed and effectiveness of citizen services, and enables federal agencies to leverage data more 
effectively for decision-making processes. This will be crucial in eliminating waste, fraud, and abuse across 
while facilitating AI-driven mission innovation. 
The potential applications of AI within the IRS, for instance, are vast. AI can be utilized to identify 
fraudulent tax refunds and frivolous tax return filings, automate and accelerate real-time tax processing, 
and allow limited staff resources to focus on high-value functions. It can also improve the collection of 
delinquent payments and securely share tax information among state, local, and federal agencies to 
enhance legitimate tax collection and eligibility for other government services. Beyond tax administration, 
AI can protect U.S. citizens by enhancing data analytics to identify unauthorized narcotics, counterfeit 
cargo, and human trafficking into the U.S. At the same time, it can streamline legitimate international trade 
and travel and curb pharmaceutical drug misappropriation and abuse, thereby saving lives. 
Additionally, the application of AI in biometric and identity systems, particularly facial recognition tools 
used in critical mission contexts to support border of the future initiatives, have shown significant 
performance gains and an ability to modernize national security initiatives. However, as new technologies 
are adopted uncertain risk profiles and disparate security standards can hinder adoption and slow 
innovation in critical mission contexts. With right-sized governance and updated AI policy, the current 
administration can appropriately address these challenges while supporting critical testing and security 
standards development to facilitate wider adoption and enable the benefits of AI-driven identity 
verification. 
Given these compelling use cases, the strategic implementation of AI in government operations holds 
immense promise. The following policy suggestions aim to create an environment that fosters AI 
innovation, ensures responsible AI adoption, and maximizes the benefits of AI for public service efficiency 
and citizen welfare. 
Expanded Roles within the AI Value Chain 
AI is an integral component in ensuring the continued economic and national security of the United States. 
To support this critical area of transformation and seize opportunities for AI innovation, effective AI 
policies must begin with accurately identifying roles across the AI value chain and assigning responsibilities 
accordingly. While prior legislative discussions focused primarily on defining and codifying the roles of AI 
“Developers” and “Deployers”, there is a critical need to recognize the emerging role of AI “Integrators” 
and the unique value they bring in advancing America’s AI innovation efforts. 


pg. 312010 Sunset Hills Rd, Reston, VA 20190  
 |  saic.com 
Defining the Role of the AI Integrator: AI Integrators are companies that combine, facilitate
access to, and integrate AI mission solutions that drive tangible outcomes for civilian and defense
customers. As an integrator, SAIC leverages our cross-domain and technical expertise to select
from the extensive (and growing) range of AI solutions on the market as a means of selecting the
best of breed technology offerings for our customer’s and their unique problem set. Renewed AI
regulation should recognize the importance and functions of the integrator role within the digital
ecosystem before defining and assigning new legal obligations. This approach will ensure that
responsibilities and liabilities are appropriately attributed to each entity based on their specific role
and influence on AI system safety and risk.
Assigning Responsibility to the Appropriate AI Stakeholders: As noted above,  AI systems
are integrated, combined, and deployed through a complex value chain involving multiple entities.
Each entity may make decisions that impact the safety or risk of the downstream system.
Therefore, responsibilities and obligations should be established in a manner that is relevant and
appropriate to each entity. Recognizing the role of integrators is essential for the United States to
reach its full potential in AI innovation, avoiding undue regulatory burdens misaligned with
integrator’s core functions while maintaining high standards of safety and accountability in areas
each role of the value chain can and should manage.  To foster safety and agile AI adoption, liability
and compliance requirements should align with the role an entity plays in the AI lifecycle.
Specifically:
oDevelopers of foundational AI models should assume responsibility for risks related to data
ingestion, including potential copyright or bias issues arising from training data.
oIntegrators should not be held liable for risks inherent to the development stage but should
focus on ensuring safe and effective system integration with their customer’s unique
requirements and compliance areas in mind.
oClear guidelines should delineate responsibilities among developers, integrators, and
deployers to prevent undue compliance burdens and encourage continued AI innovation
across the flow of the AI value chain.
Developing a Standardized National Language around AI: SAIC’s AI integration work
encompasses a wide range of systems and applications, from administrative analytics support and
optimization efforts to highly complex capabilities provided to our nation’s warfighters. As such, it
is imperative that any updated regulatory framework for AI establishes key terms and definitions
related to AI systems, the range of actors within the AI value chain and eventual end users, and the
contextual scope of where AI regulation begins and ends.  By establishing a common national
language around AI, the United States can create a more cohesive regulatory environment that
supports innovation, accountability, and clarity for all stakeholders involved in the AI value chain.


pg. 412010 Sunset Hills Rd, Reston, VA 20190  
 |  saic.com 
oFor example, adopting a singular definition for terms such as 'general purpose system' and
'foundational model' is essential for effective regulation and compliance enforcement across
the AI value chain.
oThe index of defined AI terminology should be robust, centralized, and actionable.
oThe proposed index of AI terminology should aim to balance technical definitions with plain
language easily understood by both technical and non-technical AI actors with diverse levels
of AI prior knowledge.
Remove Unnecessary Barriers to AI Innovation 
A fragmented regulatory environment hinders AI adoption and creates inefficiencies. SAIC supports 
harmonization across AI standards and the establishment of common terminology. Federal agencies should 
align with existing frameworks and guidance focused on AI risk management rather than creating new, 
potentially conflicting guidelines. A unified approach will reduce compliance complexity and accelerate the 
deployment of trusted AI solutions across government operations. 
Leveraging Existing Guidance: To enhance AI security and innovation without imposing
redundant regulatory burdens, we recommend that the Administration prioritize leveraging and
harmonizing across existing technology security frameworks. Federal agencies should adopt a
consistent security baseline for AI applications, drawing from established frameworks, like the NIST
AI Risk Management Framework to ensure cohesion and minimize disruption while efficiently
maximizing innovation.
Harmonization of Governance : To the maximum extent practicable, AI regulation should be
adopted at the federal level to avoid a patchwork of varying state laws that could hinder AI
innovation and create an unduly complex regulatory landscape.
Building on Existing Technology-Neutral Laws : Existing technology-neutral laws and sector-
specific regulations already apply to AI in the context of government procurement and
cybersecurity policy. Whenever possible, the Administration should reemphasize existing
frameworks, legal definitions, and agency authorities as they relate to government procurement and
transition to thinking about holistic solutions rather than focusing on AI capabilities in a vacuum.
This continuity ensures that AI, as a new technology, fits seamlessly within the longstanding
application of agency statutory definitions for new technologies.
oFor example, Federal agencies have an opportunity to leverage well-established
cybersecurity frameworks to address AI system security. The National Institute of
Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework provides a robust foundation
that can be adapted to address AI-specific security concerns. By building on existing
cybersecurity norms, the Administration can ensure that AI systems are secure without
reinventing the wheel.


pg. 512010 Sunset Hills Rd, Reston, VA 20190  
 |  saic.com 
Utilizing Established Legal Definitions : Existing legal definitions in agency-specific legislation
and their implementing regulations continue to apply to IT systems across the federal government.
Applying these definitions to AI technologies will provide a consistent regulatory framework,
facilitating smoother implementation and compliance for the entirety of any AI-enabled.
Nuanced Requirements for Mission Contexts: To date, established policy has not articulated
AI risk and security requirements for mission contexts. We argue that mission use cases such as AI
for DoD and National Security contexts should take priority given the nuanced requirements and
our continued need to provide innovative AI solutions to the warfighter across critical mission
areas. Addressing mission contexts first will enhance the security landscape while driving innovation
in AI applications critical to national defense.
oBy focusing on DoD and National Security requirements, updated regulation can reduce
risks associated with AI deployment in high-stakes environments while establishing distinct
risk profiles for mission contexts versus civilian AI systems. This approach involves setting
flexible safety, reliability, and monitoring standards for AI systems used in defense and
intelligence operations. Ensuring that AI technology is robust and secure in these contexts
will build trust and reliability in AI applications across other sectors without mission AI
solutions being held to rigid standard applicable to as general-purpose government use
cases.
Invest in AI Research, Development, and Testing
Prioritized Investments in AI R&D : A robust AI ecosystem depends on continued investment
in research, development, and testing. Building on the government’s existing commitments to
defense and nondefense spending around AI R&D, we urge continued investments in areas to
include core AI and ML research, safety, testing and continuous evaluation mechanisms, and
elimination of computer systems and infrastructural deficiencies that hinder future AI innovation.
Funding for Testing Infrastructure: Robust testing infrastructure is crucial for validating AI
technologies' performance, which is a critical component in securing AI solutions used in high-risk
mission contexts. Developing test infrastructure that is compatible with a plurality of systems from
different developers can be costly, requiring continued government funding to cover the diverse set
of needs for different AI capabilities and end-use contexts. Dedicated testbeds have significantly
increased the efficiency of performing AI technology assessments, yet continued government
funding is crucial for ongoing evolution and availability of these resources to ensure government
agencies have confidence in performance of AI capabilities being procured and deployed.


pg. 612010 Sunset Hills Rd, Reston, VA 20190  
 |  saic.com 
Support Applied AI Research and Common Evaluation Benchmarks: To ensure the
successful integration of AI technologies in government operations, it is crucial for the federal
government to support applied research and establish common evaluation benchmarks that are
supported by standards. Applied technology research is essential for understanding the real-world
implications, benefits, and risks of rapidly evolving AI technologies. However, academic labs often
lack access to commercial technology, and industry-driven use-cases may not always align with
government requirements, leading to solutions that require costly modifications or fail to meet
operational needs. The government can mitigate these challenges by utilizing Cooperative Research
and Development Agreements (CRADAs) to reduce risk for participating companies and facilitate
technology sharing for evaluation purposes. As such, new AI policy should facilitate collaboration
between public, private, and academic institutions to study the performance of commercial AI
technologies in real-world government settings, utilizing contract vehicles to facilitate this research.
Open-Source AI Testing: Federal agencies should host public challenge problems and test
events centered around security-related use cases and use the results to set performance
benchmarks for AI systems via government guidelines. Government sponsored test events focused
on government AI use-cases in simulated real-world environments can help industry adapt
technology to meet government needs outside the rigid procurement process and level the playing
field on which AI providers can engage with federal customers. These events provide valuable
insights into the performance of various technologies and enable the establishment of performance
benchmarks, ensuring that technology providers are aware of their own performance relative to
the state of the art. Such activities drive AI innovation and competition by allowing both the public
and private sectors to gain a realistic understanding of AI system performance and limitations
across diverse government contexts while the government with a continued pipeline for AI
innovation.
Unleash AI Innovation 
Accelerating AI Adoption in Defense Applications:  To align with the Department of
Defense (DoD)'s push for software-defined warfare, the Administration should establish clear
guidance to enable faster integration of AI solutions into defense programs. This involves
streamlining approval processes, reducing bureaucratic obstacles, and fostering a culture of
innovation within defense agencies. By providing explicit pathways and standards for AI adoption,
the Administration can ensure that cutting-edge AI technologies are rapidly deployed to enhance
operational capabilities and maintain technological superiority on the battlefield.
Ensuring AI Readiness: AI solutions must be built for operational effectiveness in dynamic and
contested environments. The Administration should prioritize policies that promote the
development of AI capabilities designed to enhance warfighter decision-making, autonomy, and
government efficiency. This includes investing in robust digital modernization efforts, AI training
programs and tools designed to rapidly upskill government and DoD employees, developing


pg. 712010 Sunset Hills Rd, Reston, VA 20190  
 |  saic.com 
simplified common standards for AI system reliability and resilience, and fostering research in areas 
such as autonomous systems, machine learning, and human-AI collaboration.  
Prioritize Infrastructural Development to Promote AI Growth:  To support the growth of
AI technologies, the Administration should prioritize the development of critical infrastructure,
such as advanced computing resources, high-speed data networks, and secure data repositories.
Investment in AI-specific infrastructure will provide the foundational capabilities needed to support
large-scale AI research, development, and deployment. Policies should also encourage the
establishment of dedicated AI research facilities and innovation hubs that bring together
government, industry, and academia to collaborate on AI projects. By building the necessary
infrastructure, the Administration can create an environment conducive to sustained AI innovation
and growth.
Prioritize Accessible AI Systems for Government Services and Missions 
To fully harness the potential of AI in government operations, it is imperative that AI systems are designed 
to be accessible to a broad range of users, from non-technical domain experts to skilled data scientists. 
This approach supports a collaborative environment where diverse stakeholders can contribute to data-
driven decision-making and problem-solving. 
Accessible AI: Future policies should encourage AI solutions that allow government subject
matter experts to engage with AI technologies designed to be accessible to a range of users who
may or may not have extensive technical knowledge. These platforms should include accessible
interfaces, prepackaged and tailorable algorithms that facilitate rapid and effective AI
implementation in mission-critical environments, and extensive training offerings. By prioritizing
accessibility in step with continued rapid innovation, the government can ensure that valuable
insights and innovations are not limited to a small subset of technically skilled individuals but are
instead democratized across the organization as a means of facilitating scalable outcomes and
efficiencies.
Supporting Context-Driven AI Solutions: The federal government has a range of use cases
and problem sets where existing and emerging AI capabilities can enable increased efficiency,
increased citizen connectivity, and tactical mission outcomes. AI edge solutions can enable
innovation in a range of use cases from traditional office environments to field work in austere
mission environments such as the battlefield or even Artic science and engineering projects.  Just as
AI is used in dynamic environments, any adopted policy must be similarly flexible to meet the needs
of the warfighter and the civil servant. With new policy around areas like field-first AI edge systems
and energy efficiency benchmarks, the government can deliver critical capabilities in some of our
nation’s more challenging environments.


pg. 812010 Sunset Hills Rd, Reston, VA 20190  
 |  saic.com 
Encouraging Interoperability: Any new AI policies should emphasize democratic and modular
data and integration practices, ensuring that AI solutions are built on open architectures that
support the intake of diverse data from multiple sources.  This approach will mitigate sampling bias
and enhance the representativeness and reliability of AI models.  Additionally, prioritizing providers
who do not employ vendor lock-in practices will foster a competitive ecosystem and prevent
dependency on single vendors, thereby promoting flexibility and choice for government agencies.
Train an AI-Ready Workforce:  As AI transforms from tool to teammate, optimal use of
emerging technology is key to mission impact. To meet critical mission objectives, the Government
will need a workforce primed to prompt AI to yield actionable insights. Accessible Prompt
engineering is one of several workforce transformations set to occur as we realize the risk and
reward of AI.  A successful AI Action plan must address the technical and cultural forces that shape
and enable a workforce that keeps pace with technology.
Conclusion 
By incorporating these principles into the upcoming AI Executive Order, the Administration can create a 
policy framework that supports national security objectives while fostering innovation and efficiency in AI 
deployment and fills in gap areas left from the previous administration. SAIC appreciates the 
Administration’s efforts to shape a forward-looking AI Action Plan that fosters innovation while ensuring 
responsible development and deployment. We welcome the opportunity to collaborate further to refine 
AI policies that enhance national competitiveness, mission readiness, and technological leadership. 
For additional information, please contact Allison Banzon, AI and Data Capabilities Lead for SAIC’s 
Innovation Factory at  i      i This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential 
information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents 
without attribution. 


