1 
March 15, 2025  
To: Faisal D'Souza 
2415 Eisenhower Avenu e 
Alexandria,  VA  22314 
Via e -mail:  
Re:  AI Action Plan From:  SambaN ova Systems, Inc.  
Jonathan Chang, General Counsel  
2200 Geng Rd., Suite 100 
Palo Alto, CA  94 303 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information.  Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
SambaNova Sys tems, Inc., a leading developer of next generation AI hardware and 
software, appreciate s the White House taking a leadership role requesting public 
comment on AI policy.  AI is a transformative technology that is critical to economic 
prosperity, global competitiveness , and national security.  At the same time,  we are only 
at the early stages of this technology, and so  it is critical to ensure that the policies we 
develop do not stifle innovation or small business in America.  We would like to highlight 
a few areas that should be considered w hen contemplating our Nation’s AI policies.  These 
relate to open -source  models , export controls, and providing for an innovative, 
competitive  and level playing field for startup companies.  
SambaNova Background  
SambaNova is an American company founded in 2017 and maintains corporate offices in 
Palo Alto, California and Austin, Texas.  At the core of our techno logies is the 
Reconfi gurable Dataflow Unit (RDU), a computer chip developed specifically for AI 
workloads.   Our systems power AI for companies, governments and research institutions 
around the world and are state -of-the-art for capability, speed , and efficiency,  helping 
our customers deploy A I at scale.   SambaNova’s technologies are  deployed within 


2 
multiple U.S. National Labs, including Argonne and Lawrence Livermore, among 
numerous others, and companies around the world depend on our systems to power their 
AI applications .  As a young and innovative startup, SambaNova competes in an industry 
dominated by much larger and more established multinational companies.  In the face of 
these challenges, SambaNova nevertheless continues to invent new technologies  and 
advance the field , making  America  the global leader in AI.  
Open -Source  AI 
The open-s ource community has been a hallmark of the U.S. technology industry , 
enabling rapid collaboration and innov ation, while, by its nature, ensuring transparency 
and trust.  In deed,  the most pop ular models we know today  are rooted in open -source  
and continue to spur rapid inn ovation  and advancement in model safety .  Open -source 
models allow  companies to quickly and s ecurely deploy AI within their businesses and  
give them access and choice to the models and systems that work best for the m.  T his 
democratization of AI ensures continued innovation, new business/industry growth , and  
our Nation’s competitiveness in the global economy.  Access to open- source  development 
is critical to rapidly enhancing and developing AI and continuing U.S. leadership  in this 
industry.  As such, our AI policies should encourage open- source development in AI  and 
be cautious  of any regulations that slow the pace of innovation and constrain AI models  
to only the hands of a few.  
National Security  & Export Controls 
We understand the importance of national security and the need to carefully consider the potential implications of advanced technologies. We also recognize the need for export 
controls against our adversaries  and fully support these measures.   M ore recent 
restrictions on AI chips, however,  have been heavy handed in restricting access or 
blocking/slowing  marke ts and applications where there are  no national security concerns.  
Even with a  licensing pr ocess that “presumes app roval, ” there have been  unreasonable 
delays in issuing export licenses.   These delays and extra burdens harm U.S. businesses 


 
 
3 
(especially small businesses) and can bring AI advance s to a halt , while our adversaries 
gain ground  by developing workarounds .  Any new AI policies should focus on more 
targeted export controls to address specific root problems and ba d actors, and not be so 
broad- sweeping as to chill innovation and economic  activity , especially at this early stage 
of AI . 
     
The AI Diffusion Rules did provide for a Low Processing Performance (LPP) exception to 
export licenses, which we are grateful for and has helped to mitigate some of the delays 
and burdens  of obtaining export licenses .  We strongly recommend the Administration to 
maintain such an exception, however,  we expect its technical limits (as well as other 
requirements of AI Diffusion ) will be problematic in the future.  For situations where 
exceptions such as LPP do not apply and export licenses are required , we recommend 
policies that expedite the licensing review process and set forth strict timelines  for agency 
review.  
 In general, the AI Diffusion rules fortify monopolies  and market incumbent s by 
constraining supply and artificially limiting demand, thereby not letting free market forces 
take effect.  This generally results in less room for new technologies to flourish because 
customers, constrained by the ru le’s limits,  are less willing to explore new technologies 
and expand their supply chains .  The downstream effects of these restrictions are less 
global capital infusion for U.S. leading  technologies, less competition, and ultimately  a 
slowing of U.S. innovation and advancements in AI.   We recommend that the 
Administration work with industry  and small busine ss to strike the right balance between 
national security  and U .S. competitive ness in the global market place. 
 Small Business  
U.S. AI startups, the most innovative in the field, stand to be the most impacted  by any 
new policy. As dynamic as the AI industry has been in just the past few years, it is still very 
early in the technology curve, and any regulation that hinders U.S. innovation in this area 


4 
must be carefully considered. To maintain our Nation’s leadership in this critical 
technology, the U.S. should focus on ensuring companies like SambaNova continue to 
succeed, grow and innovate so that the U.S. continues to lead in advancing the global economy.  A level playing field for all market participants  is imperative to making sure the 
U.S. maintains its comp etitive edge in a n incredibly fast- moving  industry.   We urge the 
Administ ration to carefully review and consider policy impacts on small busine sses, not 
only to mitigate such impacts, but to also  actively  encourage and support the growth of 
new t echnologies. 
Conclusion  
In summary, U.S. AI policy should focus on driving technological a dvancement and 
ensuring that its most innovative companies continue to grow and succeed.  This is a time 
for U.S. technology and AI’s economic benefits to improve, flourish  and expand ; and not 
a time to consolidate, isolate and lose ground to other nations.   By prioritizing open -
source col laboration, streamlining export pr ocesses, and actively supporting startups, t he 
U.S. can out -innovate adversaries while safeguarding its interests.   
We appreciate the opportunity to provide our thoughts and look forward to working with 
the Administration to ensure America remains at the forefront of AI technology.  
SambaNova Systems, Inc.  
Jonathan Chang  
General Counsel  


