From: Saro Nortrup
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan Concerns
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 2:05:57 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening  
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
The idea of allowing generative AI to be trained on copyrighted work without limit or  
compensation is a violation of the Fifth Amendment. We as citizens are allowed to keep  
personal property, including ideas (intellectual property) and maintain the rights over them.  
When people are hungry, we do not force companies or individuals to give up their own food  
or resources without thanks or compensation; we especially would not force a farmer to give  
up his produce for free so that a store might sell those vegetables for profit, but both of these  
analogies are exactly what OpenAI wants to do.
These companies want to be able to cannibalize the hard work of individuals, with no  
recognition or compensation for their work being used to train this software, and then  
CHARGE OTHERS to use it. Either pay for the privilege of learning from other people's  
creative works (and allow them to say no) or OpenAI should be entirely not for profit and free  
to use by anyone without limits. (If the data they collected to train their software was truly free  
and had no value, then their product should be considered the same.)
For all the fear mongering about China's AI eclipsing ours, are we really considering  
sacrificing America's unique creativity, individuality, and our right to make money from our  
own works just to make ChatGPT use fancier words when making up facts about birds?  I can  
promise you that if we remove copyright protections in favor of OpenAI, our economy will  
buckle in on itself. No more movies or video games or TV, no more music or books or art, no  
more quality assurances or importance of brands. If everything I make can be taken and  
consumed by OpenAI, how is that any different than living in Communist China without any  
personal property or individuality at all?
AI has its place and its strengths, but it should not be allowed to supersede some of the most  
basic personal freedoms in this country in favor of progressing faster and for less money. Let  
people and companies exclude their work from AI training models. For f &^%'s sake.
--Saro Nortrup
Writer, artist, American
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


