March 15, 2025  
AI Action Plan  
Faisal D’Souza, NCO  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development  
National Science Foundation  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Via Email: 
Dear Mr. D’Souza: 
The Small Business & Entrepreneurship Council (SBE Council) appreciates the opportunity to 
submit comments in response to the Request for Information (RFI) on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan, issued by the Networking and Information Technology 
Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO) at the National 
Science Foundation (NSF), on behalf of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP).  
As an advocacy organization  representing  entrepreneurs and small business owners  for more 
than 30 years , SBE Council has supported  transformative technological innovation and 
disruption , as it has been extremely positive  for America ’s small business es. Artificial 
Intelligence  (AI) is no  different. AI i s revolutionizing how entrepreneurs launch businesses and 
how Main Street businesses compete and grow. From cutting costs and streamlining operations 
to enhancing decision -making and engaging with customers , AI is empowering small business 
owners and freeing time and resources , allowing both owners and their employees  to focus on 
high-value work. Moreover, U.S. entrepreneurs are at the heart of AI innovation . They are the 
creative and disruptive force  behind these innovative  tools that are helping the U.S. sustain 
technological leadership in the global marketplace . 
To that end, the U.S. absolutely  can maintain its lead in “the AI race” if policies give our 
entrepreneurs the freedom and resources  to succeed . Policies matter , and SBE Council supports 
measures that work to encourage investment , innovation and adoption .  


Entrepreneu rs and Small Businesses  Embrace  AI 
Small business owners are avid users of AI solutions and tools. Over the past three years, 
adoption among small businesses has rapidly accelerated, as revealed in SBE Council surveys. In 
these surveys, small business owners report that AI solutions are delivering significant cost 
savings, boosting productivity, and enhancing customer acquisition and engagement . Business 
owners report that AI is allowing them to manage operations more effectively  and scale their 
businesses in ways that were previously unattainable. With 84% of small businesses now using 
these tools, AI is no longer an emerging technology  - it is a critical driver of small business 
success. 
As the OSTP develops an AI Action Plan, it is imperative that federal policies consider small 
business impact and benefits, and how these policies can further accelerate  adoption and 
innovation among small businesses and AI startups. Overly restrictive regulations, high 
compliance costs, and rigid licensing requirements can create significant barriers for small 
business and the AI startup ecosystem driving this revolution, putting them  at a competitive 
disadvantage compared to larger players.  Indeed, it has been a long -establishe d principle that  
regulatory burdens disproportionately har m startups and small businesses, either by raising 
barriers to entry or by increasing costs for small business users. Both put small firms at a 
competitive  disadvantage to large r firms, and when th at happens the economy becomes less 
vibrant and consumers have fewer  choices. In addition, innovation suffers.    
The following points, drawn from our surveys, highlight  the significant  benefits AI is providing 
to small businesses , which underscore s the importance of a policy framework that cultivates 
innovation in AI and emerging technologies in general : 
Widespread Adoption:  84% of small businesses are utilizing AI tools across various business 
functions. ( Small Business Checkup Survey ) 
Cost Savings and Profitability:  93% of small business owners agree that AI tools offer cost -
effective solutions that drive savings and improve profitability. ( Small Business AI Adoption 
Survey) 
Time Savings:  AI adoption has led to an estimated annual savings of approximately 6.33 billion 
hours for small businesses, translating to about $273.5 billion saved annually  (2023). (Small 
Business AI Adoption Survey ) 
Enhanced Efficiency: 76% of small business owners report that AI is freeing both them and 
their employees  of time to focus on high -value tasks.  (Small Business AI Adoption Survey ) 
Revenue-Generating Enhancements:  Small businesses are using AI to free up resources to 
enhance customer engagement and retention . (Small Business Checkup Survey ) 
Motivations for AI Adoption:  Business owners are rapidly adopting AI tools due to their 
comfort with technology , and the need to improve efficiency and reduce costs . (Small Business 
AI Adoption Survey ) 


Small Busi ness Owners are Bullis h on AI: Small businesses are investing in AI  - 83% of small 
business owners said they would maintain or  increase their AI spending through 2025 , reflecting 
confidence in the value of these technologies.  (Small Business Checkup Survey ) 
AI Policy, Entrepreneurs  and Main Street  Small Business es 
AI is emp owering and powerful. It is a positive development, and that needs to be loudly 
articulated at the federal level. That positive signal will serve to fuel actions nationally to 
embrace AI (not fear it)  and the need for government at all levels, institutions of lea rning, and 
businesses to support a forward  and positive vision on the role of AI in energizing economic 
opportunity . SBE Council would like to see an Action Plan that forcefully prom otes the 
following:  
Pro-Investment Policies : Encouraging private-sector investment is critical toward bringing AI 
innovations and startups to the market. From tax to antitrus t policy, and barriers created via 
excessive regulation in securities laws, government int rusion and short-sightedness are harming 
capital access and formation . SBE Council encourages policies t hat modernize and lower 
regulatory barri ers, lower taxes , and provide investment incentives (such as immediate R &D 
expensing, lower capital gains taxes, and competitive  tax rates in general) to fuel investment.  
The merger and acqui sition ecosystem mu st return to a “best in class” model, rather than the 
arbitrary, confusing and costly one it has become via Biden-era rules and guidelines . A light-
touch regulatory f ramework would support entrepreneurs and small businesses , and Congress 
should develop a framework that pre empts the growing patchwork of proposed state laws that 
undermine AI advancement and adoption . 
Educational and Infrastructure Support : Programs funded at the federal , state and local levels 
–via various federal departments and agencies such as  Labor, the Small Business A dministration
and others , as well as state and local governments  – must be thoroughly modernized to include
outcomes tha t align with the workforce skills and technical proficiency  required in an
increasingly  AI-immersed ma rketplace and workplace . Federal policies need to support
innovative educational approac hes at every level of our e ducational systems.  Energy policy must
be thoughtfully restructured to support  power demand , including addressing outdated regulation
along with dated thinking with respect to nuclear power .
We live in a period of rapid change energized  by new and  emerging technologies . SBE Council 
believes this disruptive change continues to benefit  our entrepreneurs and small businesses . 
Especially b ecause the U.S. continues to lead the wor ld in innovation and our businesses have 
ready access to these tools  in order to s tay competitive. The most prod uctive thing U.S. 
policymakers can do to fuel Americ an technological innovation and greatness – via AI and yet to 
be determined innovations down the road - is to stay out of the way. To use existing law to 
address real market problems when they emerge – rather than creating new laws and rules that 
address contrived or “maybe” problems that have yet to materialize . 
As innovators creating AI tools  - and as entrepreneurs  using AI to compete and grow their firms - 
small business owners have a significant  stake in the future o f U.S. technological innovation. 


Having access to these tools means  small businesses  can compete at home and abroad , and in 
doing so can continue to play an imp ortant role in bolstering  the U.S. economy. As innovators, 
they are at the center of driving U.S. dominance, especially against China. Empowering U.S. 
entrepreneurs and small businesses through p ro-investment, pro -innovation policies  will have an 
outsized impact  on economic l eadership moving forward, and SBE Council encourages the 
Administration  to support them  at every level  and continually tap into their know -how and ideas  
in the development and execution of the AI Action Plan .     
Sincerely,  
Karen Kerrigan  
President & CEO  
Protecting Small Business, Promoting Entrepreneurship  
800 Connecticut Ave. NW ● Suite 300 ● Washington, D.C.  20006 ● (703) -
www.sbecouncil.org  


