1 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
March 14, 2025  
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination 
Office (NCO)  
National Science Foundation  
Subject: AI Action Plan  
Comm ents submitted via 
Dear Ms. Plimpton,  
On behalf of the Society of Cardiovascular Computed Tomography (SCCT), we appreciate the 
opportunity to provide comments on the Request for Informa tion (RFI) regarding the development of an 
AI Action Plan. SCCT is a recognized leader in cardiovascular computed tomography (CT) education, 
advocacy, and research, representing a diverse membership of physicians, scientists, and healthcare 
professionals d edicated to advancing the use of CT in cardiovascular care.  
Artificial intelligence (AI) is integral to modern cardiovascular imaging, playing a crucial role in research, 
treatment, clinical decision -making, and healthcare delivery. The increasing adoption of AI across 
healthcare underscores the necessity for its inclusion in federal policy discussions to ensure responsible 
integration, innovation, and patient safety.  
AI applications are also increasingly used across a number of patient care pathwa ys: 
Medical procedures : Supports diagnostic image acquisition, reducing errors and improving
workflow, resulting in lower medical costs and supporting patient  safety.
Image interpretation : Automates aspects of time -consuming tasks for clinicians and
standardizes reporting of results resulting in higher accuracy, quality care  and more time for the
patient .
Clinical decision making : Help assess risk prediction and resulting decision support, which leads
to better patie nt/treatment management .


2 
Cardiovascular CT is now a key investigation for patients with known or suspected cardiac disease; and is 
also increasingly adopted in primary prevention assessments for those populations at risk.  Some reports 
suggest that implem enting guideline reccomendations will require in 7 -10x more cardiovascular CT 
exams. Therefore, there is a n enormous need  for AI  to assist and improve patient care at every point in 
the cardiovascular CT pathway.  
Among othe r applications, AI -driven analys es provide detailed non -invasive assessments of the coronary 
arteries permitting optimal prevention strategies and treatment of patients at -risk of or with established 
coronary artery dieseas ( angina or prior heart attack ). There is potential for AI  and machin e learning 
(AI/ML) to improve patient care at every point in the card iovascular CT pathway .  
Several aspects of the traditionally time -consuming cardiovascular CT analysis can now be automated by 
AI, freeing up physicians for human -dependent aspects of patient  care; and providing them with a level 
of information to implement efficient,  personalized care to every patient . For example, AI-based 
analyses can rapidly identify and quantify coronary calcification ; improve the accuracy of coronary 
artery lumen s segmentation ; accurately quantify coronary stenoses and allow  virtual stress 
assessments;  and rapidly calculate total  atherosclerotic plaque volumes, providing unprecedented risk 
assessment beyond standard human cognition.  
Given  the transform ative impact of AI o n cardiovascular CT, as well as o n cardiovascular medicine as a 
whole, SCCT recently (August 2024) p ublished  a white paper “Artificial Intelligence and Machine 
Learning for Cardiovascular Computed Tomography (CCT ): A White Paper of the SCCT ” which 
summarises the current state -of-the-art advances, highlight s challenges and considerations for AI 
implementation in both research and clinical settings, and explor es the future of this technology.   
In this context,  SCCT urges the Administration to recognize the critical role of AI in cardiovascular 
medicine and include healthcare as a central focus in the AI Action Plan.  
Key priorities for AI in healthcare p olicy  
1.Reimbu rsement pathways for AI -driven i nnovation
oAI-driven tools enhance efficiency and patient outcomes, but reimbursement models
must evolve to support their adoption.


3 
oFederal policy should facilitate reimbursement mechanisms that encourage responsible
AI-driven innovation in clinical practice.
2.Responsibility and liability for AI -related e rrors
oClear regulatory frameworks are necessary to define liability in AI -assisted medical
decision -making.
oPolicie s should establish accountability while ensuring AI remains a tool that supports,
rather than replaces, medical professionals.
3.Assuring data robustness, safety and e ffectiveness
oAI applications in healthcare rely on high -quality, diverse, and representati ve datasets.
oPolicymakers must ensure AI algorithms meet rigorous standards for validation and
trustworthiness  to maintain trust and efficacy.
4.AI as a supportive tool, not a replacement for clinical j udgment
oAI should complement rather than dictate clinic al decisions, particularly in prior
authorization and diagnostic interpretation.
oRegulatory frameworks must reinforce AI’s role in augmenting healthcare professionals
rather than supplanting their expertise.
As the Administration develops its AI Action Pl an, it is imperative that healthcare be included as a 
priority sector. SCCT welcomes the opportunity to collaborate with policymakers to shape an AI 
framework that fosters innovation while safeguarding patient care and clinical integrity.  
We appreciate you r consideration of these critical issues and look forward to engaging further in this 
important policy discussion. Ple ase feel free to contact us for further dialogue.  
Sincerely,  
Ahmad Slim, MD, FSCCT  
Chair, SCCT Health Policy & Practice Committee 


