March 14, 2025 
Attn: Faisal D’Souza, NCO 
AI Action Plan  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 Via email: 
Re: Schnei der Electric Response to the Trump Administration’s Request for Information 
on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
To Whom It  May Concern:  
As a lea ding infrastructure provider for data centers, the grid, and other critical elements of the 
United States’ energy infrastructure, Schneider Electric appreciates the opportunity to provide recommendations for the Trump Administration’s AI Action Pla n. To propel American 
leadership in AI, lower costs for consumers, boost economic growth and good jobs, and make the best use of American energy, it is critical the Administration take bold action. We are enthusiastic about the Administration’s speed and attention to this issue and look forward to remaining a partner to the Administration as it crafts the AI Action Plan and implements its energy policy agenda.  
Schneider  Electric has been a leader in innovation in energy in the United States for nearly two 
centuries  as a manufacturer , software company , and innovator employing over 21,000 Americans 
across more than 20 factories , facilities , and distribution centers across the country. Within the 
data center market, Schneider Electric serves as a leading physical infrastructure provider , 
providing the power and cooling systems that keep data center operations reliable and secure. In 
recent years, Schneider Electric has invested more than $440 million to expand our U.S. 
capacity, adding to our American manufacturing  footprint and bolstering the U.S. supply chain 
for critical grid and energy products and components – including those necessary to support the AI and data center boom. In fact, many of our recent investments in the U.S. are strengthening domestic supply of data center equipment to support the AI boom, including low- and medium-voltage switchgear and uninterruptible power supplies (UPSs).  Driven by the market, an all -of-
the-above energy strategy, and an increasingly flexible policy landscape, we are eager to continue growing in the U.S. to not only support the American energy supply chain, but to contribute to America’s growing manufacturing base and highly skilled workforce.  
Schneider  Electric is unique in that we play a key role in every stage of the  AI value chain : we 
provide critical power to semiconductor factories; we serve as manufacturers of critical data center equipment ; we are  consumers of AI technologies and solutions to optimize our industrial 
processes  and business; and we are developers of AI software and solutions for our customers. 
As infrastructure providers for data centers, we provide uninterruptible power systems (UPSs), cooling equipment, racks, switchgear, and more that keep data centers running efficiently and 


securely. Our software and solutions also play a role in keeping data centers operational, 
resilient, and secure. Together, our hardware and AI- driven software can help data centers meet 
the growing challenge of mounting and variable power consumption needs. Along with our 
partners, we are leading in deploying specific, AI-ready technologies that will power, cool, and support the most advanced and intensive workloads.
1 
Our expansi ve software portfolio, including industrial software powered by AVEVA, a 
subsidiary of Schneider Electric, plays an integral role in the future of AI data centers  and 
industrial AI that will drive the most competitive industry of the future . AVEVA operates  its 
software  across various sectors – including critical infrastructure and data centers – to improve 
efficiency, reduce costs, meet demand, optimize investments, and improve quality of life. Critically, AVEVA software provides key insights int o entire value chains. In a data center 
context, this software can cultivate impactful data on the use of electricity in real- time and can 
share how each stakeholder – like the data center itself or a water utility – is impacting the 
demand and load curves. In the context of manufacturing, AVEVA can optimize the energy management and industrial processes, safety, and maintenance requirements of factories that make critical components required for AI supply chains and necessary  for AI leadership.  
Data cul tivated via industrial software solutions can enable the modeling of digital twins, which 
is a virtual representation of a physical object, process, or system – including data center operations – to simulate the behavior and performance of its real-world counterpart in real- time. 
Leveraging digital twins for data centers  allow s for improved decision-making, optimized 
performance, and reduced downtime and maintenance costs. Simply  put, using industrial 
software generates savings for  power providers and data center operators. For example, Duke 
Energy saved over $34 million in a single early-catch event in 2016 leveraging AVEVA software.
2 Additionally, Southern Company has leveraged AVEVA’s digital twin, AI- powered 
technology to unlock $10 million in savings to date.3   
The AI buil dout will evolve rapidly, requiring an energy backbone capable of propelling it and a 
policy landscape flexible enough to shepherd innovation. In the coming years, Schneider Electric expects a new wave of AI buildout, wherein AI compute demands will shift from largely training models to working – or inference – models. Working AI applies its learned knowledge to make 
predictions or take actions on new data, requiring progressively more and more compute capacity as AI matures and becomes increasin gly useful across the American economy. This pending shift 
will require speed and agility  on the part of all stakeholders involved in the growth of the data 
center market in the U.S. From utilities and power providers to infrastructure manufacturers and  
policymakers, the need for collaborative action to continue driving and powering the AI boom is critical to sustain American AI leadership. Schneider Electric’s unique leadership, technical  
1 See Schneider Electric, Schneider Electric Collaborates with NVIDIA on Designs for AI Data Centers  (Mar. 18, 2024) at 
https://www.se.com/ww/en/about -us/ne wsroom/news/press-releases/schneider -electric-collaborates -with-nvidia -on-designs -for-
ai-data-centers -65f801c8595e3ff8cd0a80c8  (announcing Schneider Electric’s collaboration with NVIDIA to optimize data center 
infrastructure by releasing AI data center reference designs to redefine the benchmarks for AI deployment and operations within 
data center ecosystems ).  
2 See AVEVA, Duke Energy Predictive Analytic Success Story at https://www.aveva.com/en/perspectives/success -storie s/duke -
energy/?_gl=1*193pw09*_up*MQ..*_gs*MQ..&gclid=Cj0KCQjwhMq-BhCFARIsAGvo0Kfqdeu-
nC9XFnc_DCsF1FNEHOWWObIG56cePWnwnNH6KjAZymKVmwcaAvtjEALw_wcB .  
3 See AVEVA, Southern Company  at https://www.aveva.com/en/perspectives/success -stories/southern -company -digital-twin/ .  


expertise, and solutions in energy management will play a vital role in building the backbone of 
AI infrastructure in the U.S.  
 
As the Administration considers its AI policies, we stand ready to serve as a partner. We 
encourage attention to policies that bolster and modernize U.S. energy infrastructure, promote 
greater affordability and cost-containment, drive data center and grid flexibility , (including the 
deployment of distributed resources as stabilizers for critical infrastructure ), and  build resilient 
supply chains . We s upport the concerted  deployment of readily available  demand -side solutions 
at scale and more rapidly  while concurrently developing a comprehensive national plan for 
supply-side solutions recognizing those solutions can vary in timeline  to permitting, construction 
and power. Specifically, we encourage the Administration to enact a comprehensive strategy to power and unlock the future of AI in America  including policy actions that: 
 
Strengthen and Modernize the Energy  Infrastructure Needed to Power AI  
• Create a Grid Czar  in the T
rump Administration to coordinate a comprehensive national 
plan to modernize and bolster the grid for the AI Era , working effectively with all players 
in the ecosystem to break down unnecessary barriers and pave the way for success; 
• Modernize , expand, and digitalize U.S. grid infrastructure, including by ensuring the 
effective dispersal and deployment of remaining  grid modernization funds allocated 
under the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act ( IIJA) to support a range of utility 
infrastructure upgrades alongside deployment of grid -edge technologies and software 
solutions; 
• Ease and speed permitting processes for data centers and supporting infrastructure, 
including permits for high- voltage interstate transmission infrastructure;  
• Streamline  time to power by improving interconnection queues and establishing clear 
processes  and criteria  for prioritization that are transparent , timely , and support national, 
energy, and economic security objectives ; 
• Categorize data centers as critical infrastructure  given the vital role they play in financial, 
econom ic, and national security , and; 
• Develop clear regulatory guidance t o facilitate the approval and development of co -
located data centers with energy generation resources , including everything from 
interconnection processes to tariff design and cost allocation for necessary grid upgrades 
of transmission and distribution infrastructure.  
 
Increase Data Center Flexibility and Improve Load Management to Keep Energy Costs 
Low and Reduce Grid Strain 
• Provide gui dance and direction to data center operators, power providers, and 
infrastructure providers regarding best practices for optimizing energy usage to maintain 
low costs and reliable energy access for electricity consumers ; 
• Support and inc entivize data center flexibility with the grid  to minimize impact to 
consumers, communities, and our energy infrastructure; 
• Enact the policy, programs, and appropriations or incentives required to accelerate more 
rapid  deployment at scale of stationary storage (batteries)  and islandable- power via 
microgrids in critical infrastructure (data centers, military installations, hospitals, or 


schools) to stabilize and harden the grid against cybersecurity and weather events that 
disrupt national and energy security, and; 
•Promote government efficiency  by leverag ing the  power of third- party private financing
and public- private partnerships to scale investment in microgrids for data centers
supporting the federal government, military,  or public sector.
Strengthe n the Supply of Energy Resources and Products  Supporting the AI Boom  
•Streamline  permitting processes to speed the buildout of new mining, mining processing,
manufacturing, and production of materials, components, and products needed to
buildout the AI economy in the U.S.;
•Identify strategic supply chains critical to American AI leadership  including advanced
and legacy semiconductors, critical minerals, critical grid equipment, and batteries, and
empower suppliers to produce these goods regionally;
•Preserve and enact effective incentives to drive investment in localized supply chain in
key areas critical to AI , and;
•Adopt effective trade agreements or memorandums of understanding ( MOUs ) with
international partners to ensure ample capacity and bridge supply gaps until localizedsupply chains are in place.
Drive Inv estment in the Future of AI in America  
•Remove roadblocks for future investment in AI as an industry, ensuring capital canaccelerate towards building AI as a differentiated capability of U.S. national securityinterest ;
•Advance research and development (R&D) of new and emerging technologies that
leverage AI  or support AI infrastructure such as power electronics for UPS systems,
smart building controls, long-duration energy storage (LDES) , and grid -interactive
capabilities  and;
•Ensure AI regulation is innovation- and competition-friendly.
Advance Responsible AI Cybersecurity Policies 
•Support the development of voluntary, consensus-based international standards, such asthose developed in ISO/IEC;
•Encourage the adoption of techniques – including AI security risk scoring andmanagement, threat modeling, adversarial tests, secure supply chain, and xBOM – thatimprove the security of AI, and;
•Advance policies that support AI- powered cybersecurity in critical infrastructure.
Americ an AI policy that not only drives private sector innovation but seeks to power it will both 
surge American leadership in AI and ensure American energy independence and dominance.  
Strengthen and Modernize the Energy Infrastructure Needed to Power AI  
Unlocking Am erica’s AI future hinges on the strength and reliability of the U.S.’s power 
infrastructure. Today, our power infrastructure’s reliability is being appropriately questioned in the face of an unprecedented amount of load growth and it is increas ingly clear that our already -


constrained grid infrastructure requires expedient, strategic attention and investment to continue 
supporting American innovation and leadership. In our white paper, The AI Disruption: Challenges and Guidance for Data Center Design
4, we estimate that AI currently represents 4.5 
gigawatts (GW) of power consumption, and we project this to grow to a total consumption of 14 GW to 18.7 GW by 2028. Other projections estimate that data centers are expected to account for up to 44 percent of U.S. electricity load growth through 2028.
5  
Bolster the U.S. Grid 
Important ly, overall increases in load growth are not solely associated with AI and data centers – 
other contributing factors include increased U.S. manufacturing and electrification demands. This reality underscores the need for a comprehensive strategy t o address growing load demand, 
ensuring that America can  lead on – and power – AI. While energy and AI stakeholders continue 
working together  to innovate and collaboratively partner on solutions to address the energy 
crunch, policymakers must prioritize mo dern upgrades to U.S. power infrastructure to best 
position the U.S. for global AI leadership.  
Continued and f uture investment in grid modernization will propel the entire data center market 
– irrespective of computing obligations – to be more efficient consumers of energy. Specifically,investments to strengthen both the transmission and distribution of electricity along the grid willensure that the U.S.’s energy infrastructure is up to the task of supporting data center buildout.
6
Additional ly, grid -strengthening investments that digitalize  grid infrastructure , add layers of
resilience and flexibility through strategically placed distributed energy resources and
microgrids, and speed permitting and interconnection processes to bring critical energytechnologies and resources online faster will lay the foundation for American energy dominance,
including our ability to power AI.
Policym akers  should also  look to AI-driven technologies to assist in optimizing and modernizing 
the grid. There are several use cases for AI in the energy sector and we are discovering more applications as we continue developing and innovating. For example, AI can be used to track, forecast, and manage increasing load demand, maintain assets to prevent costly equipment failures, leverage microgrids to allow critical facilities to “island” from the grid, and preserve and protect assets  at water and wastewater facilities. Additionally, AI can be used in the 
industrial sector to generate energy cost savings by optimizing assets and providing early catch warnings.
7 
4 Victor Avelar, Patrick Donovan, Paul Lin, Wendy Torell, and Maria A. Torres Arango, The AI Disruption: Challenges and 
Guidance for Data Center Design , Schneider Electric – Energy Management Research Center, Sep. 7, 2023, at 2.  
5 See Maeghan Rouch, Aaron Denman, Peter Hanbury, Paul Renno, and Ellyn Grey, Utilities Must Reinvent Themselves to 
Harness the AI -Driven Data Center Boom , Bain & Company (Oct. 2024) at https://www.bain.com/insights/utilities -must -
reinvent -themselves -to-harness -the-ai-driven- data-center -boom/  (citing data from Bank of America and Goldman Sachs analyst 
forecasts (April 2024); EIA Short -Term Energy Outlook (May 2024); EIA 2023 Outlook; IDC Datacenter Deployment and 
Spend Forecast (H2 2023) ; and Bain analysis).  
6 To this point , we specifically encourage the Administration to preserve and advance funding through the Department of 
Energy’s Grid Deployment Office.  
7 See AVEVA, Duke Energy Predictive Analytic Success Story at https://www.aveva.com/en/perspectives/success -storie s/duke -
energy/?_gl=1*193pw09*_up*MQ..*_gs*MQ..&gclid=Cj0KCQjwhMq-BhCFARIsAGvo0Kfqdeu-
nC9XFnc_DCsF1FNEHOWWObIG56cePWnwnNH6KjAZymKVmwcaAvtjEALw_wcB . 


Build Data Centers as Grid Stabilizers  
Investm ents in the grid and supporting power infrastructure must run concurrently with 
investments to optimize and buildout AI data centers. As the data center market quickly evolves, 
policymakers and industry will have to work together to anticipate the power needs of the AI 
economy. Factors  including future AI workloads, inhibitors to data center growth (land, energy 
availability, labor, supply chain, etc.), and the future policy landscape will meaningfully impact 
load growth associated with AI  and its ef fect on American consumers. For example, as AI 
workloads shift from training to inference, so too will the energy  needs of data centers powering 
future AI workloads. This will require that policies encourage innovation and flexibility amongst 
private stakeholders to adapt sufficiently and quickly. Today, we are working hand in hand with 
power providers and the IT industry to support the AI transition, and as the needs and use cases for AI evolve, Schneider will continue to robustly support these critical industries.  
As new d ata centers are built and existing data centers are upgraded, both the private and public 
sector should look to this industry as a mechanism for stabilizing and expanding the grid. Today, data centers can be powered by converged energy systems that can assist not only in providing critical power to the data center, but  providing stored power back to the grid, keeping costs low 
for consumers and preserving critical energy resources.  These technologies are available and 
deployable today. Solutions internal to the data center like the use of liquid and innovative cooling and building management systems, and technologies and partnerships surrounding the data center like co -location of energy resources, extended battery energy storage systems 
(BESS), and uninterruptible power systems (UPSs) can  help to stabilize the grid, shifting the 
conversation from “H ow will we power data centers ?” to “H ow can data centers power and 
support the ir communities?”  
The AI boom pr esents a clear moment for America to boldly modernize its energy ecosystem . AI 
workloads and the a ccelerated processor capacity they require are driving exponential growth in 
power consumption amongst AI data centers, requiring they be modern and upgraded to support the high density and power needs associated with evolving AI workloads. This window of opportunity – wherein AI data centers are being built and modernized – must be leveraged by 
policymakers and energy stakeholders to innovatively strengthen the U.S. grid and support American communities. Through a mix of energy resources, upgraded technologies capable of 
securely and reliably powering a variety of computing and storing needs, and increased flexibility to measure and handle complex and varying energy consumption needs, AI data 
centers can work with utility and infrastructure partners to meet their own energy needs while simultaneously assisting to bolster and power the grid.  
Important ly, a one- size-fits-all approach to powering data centers and AI will fail in affording all 
data center operators the flexibility needed to address their role in rising demand and to assist in stabilizing the grid. Instead, a policy environment that fosters innovation and encourages adoption and deployment of new technologies across the grid will afford the data center market the agility it needs to grow the American AI economy. The Trump Administration can transform 


the entire U.S. energy landscape by taking advantage of the historic trend in AI and data center 
investment – making energy more affordable and reliable for all consumers.  
 
Increase Data Center Flexibility and Improve Load Management to Keep Energy Costs 
Low and Reduce Grid Strain 
 
Responding to growing energy volatility will require decisive action, not only to secure and 
maintain ample energy supply, but also to leverage innovative technologies to measure, forecast, and optimize energy demand. Without demand-side interventions to manage load  and supply-
side innovations to boost production and mitigate losses from the delivery of electrici ty, 
consumers will continue to pay higher prices for energy. Therefore, we must overcome the 
barriers impeding our ability to leverage supply- and demand -side technologies and strategies 
that enable us to reduce losses and get the most out of the resources we have.  
 For data centers, the ability to leverage flexible, converged energy systems will allow them to 
optimize their energy use to make the most of critical and limited energy resources , helping to 
prevent rate hikes  for consumers in the ir communities. While data centers have traditionally been 
viewed as substantial energy consumers, innovative technologies and strategies, including those incentivized through policy, are enabling an evolution in which data centers can be flexible loads that serve as grid  stabiliz ers for enhanced reliability and dynamic load management. However, 
load variability of data centers can create uncertainty around the future of energy demand associated with AI.  
 
Data Center Flexibility Strategies  
 In the coming years, the profile of AI data center demand will vary significantly based on whether data centers are enabling AI model training or inference.  Currently, we estimate that AI 
workloads are split at 20 percent for training and 80 percent for inference, with baseload needs 
being relatively flat aside from  seasonal variation.
8 This trend may continue if new AI models 
are in constant development, making model training the primary driver of AI data center load. However , if AI usage overtakes training as the dominant load source, then demand curves would 
be more dependent on usage time and type.
9 We estimate that AI workloads will shift to 15 
percent training and 85 percent inference by 2028.10 While this variability creates uncertainty 
around future load profiles, it can also present an opportunity for load shifting where non- time-
sensitive workloads can be scheduled to align with periods of lower grid demand to reduce grid strain, improve energy efficiency, and optimize energy costs.   
8 Victor Avelar, Patrick Donovan, Paul Lin, Wendy Torell, and Maria A. Torres Arango, The AI Disruption: Challenges and 
Guidance for Data Center Design , Schneider Electric – Energy Management Research Center, Sep. 7, 2023, at 2.  
9 Isabelle Riu, Dieter Smiley, Stephen Bessaparis, and Kushal Patel, Load Growth is Here to Stay, but Are Data Centers ?, Energy 
and Environmental Economic, Inc., Jul. 2024 at 13; See Devin Hartman and Olivia Manzagol, AI’s Energy Footprint Warrants 
Markets, Not Panic, R Street Institute, Sep. 26, 2024 at https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/ais -ener gy-footprint -warrants -
markets -not-panic/ .  
10 Victor Avelar, Patrick Donovan, Paul Lin, Wendy Torell, and Maria A. Torres Arango, The AI Disruption: Challenges and 
Guidance for Data Center Design , Schneider Electric – Energy Management Research Center, Sep. 7, 2023, at 2.  


Efficiency  measures include devices (chips, servers, processors, power supplies), efficient 
arrangement of server racks, efficient cooling systems, and data center energy management.11 
True data center flexibility will incorporate this suite of approaches , and AI data centers may 
lend themselves to an enhanced range of options depending upon use case. Recent developments 
in computational load profiles, operational capabilities, and broader market conditions reveal greater  potential for load flexibility from AI-driven workloads.
12 In contrast to the many real-
time processing demands typical of conventional data center workloads like  cloud services and 
enterprise applications, powering large language models and other machine learning algorithms is deferrable.
13 This temporal flexibility  allows for the strategic scheduling of training to ensure 
it’s orchestrated to occur amongst more optimal conditions. Likewise, AI data centers may lend 
themselves to spatial flexibility , referring to the ability to dynamically distribute workloads 
across data centers in different geographic locations to optimize resource utilization and 
operational efficiency.14 In particular, AI training workloads are suited for this spatial flexibility 
given they are not as constrained by the same latency requirements as AI inference sites .15 This 
would also  allow certain AI  data centers to be located in less densely populated areas where land 
is more readily available and affordable, and the grid may be less congested. Therefore, the additional load from AI training can be more easily accommodated without overburdening the local grid , helping to prevent potential grid instability in high  demand areas. This may also  make 
it easier to co -locate data centers with generation resources that require more space such as solar 
or wind power. 
A robust ef fort is already underway to explore the viability of these approaches and demonstrate 
the extent to which data center flexibility is possible . Schneider Electric is actively contributing 
to the proliferation of flexible data centers through participation in the Electric Power Research Institute's (EPRI) Data Center Flexible Load (DC Flex) Initiative. This collaborative effort, which involves a wide variety of stakeholders from utilities and power producers to chip providers and data center operat ors, aims to demonstrate how data centers can support and 
stabilize the electric grid while improving interconnection and efficiency. By integrating data centers as active participants in energy management, the initiative seeks to create a blueprint for stakeholders to adopt flexible load strategies like those already mentioned . However, exploring 
and demonstrating these capabilities is just the first step. As more of these concepts are proofed, the role of the government in facilitating lesson -sharing, best practice development, and policy 
guidance will be essential in ensuring replicability and scalability. The government can also play a catalytic role through policies that incent data centers to act as flexible resources including by helping to fill fundamental data and knowledge gaps.  
Empower Data Center Flexibility  through Technological Innovation 
11 Nora Wang Esram and Neal Elliott, Turning Data Centers into Grid and Regional Assets: Considerations and 
Recommendations for the Federal Government, State Policymakers, and Utility Regulators , ACEEE, Oct. 2024 at  6. 
12 Tyler Norris, Tim Profeta, Dalia Patino -Echeverri, and Adam Cowie -Haskell, Rethinking Load Growth: Assessing the 
Potential for Integration of Large Flexible Loads in U.S. Power Systems , Nicholas Institute for Energy, Environment, and 
Sustainability, Duke University, 2025 at  11/ 
13 Id.  
14 Id. 
15 See Devin Hartman and Olivia Manzagol, AI’s Energy Footprint Warrants Markets, Not Panic, R Street Institute, Sep. 26, 
2024 at https://www.rstreet.org/commentary/ais -energy -footprint -warrants -markets -not-panic/ . 


To fully realize the future potential of data centers as grid resources, data centers must be 
increasingly equipped with advanced solutions, such as grid-interactive technologies, that enable 
bidirectional capabilities, allowing energy to flow to and from the grid. An example of this are UPSs that not only draw power from the grid but also supply energy back during peak demand or 
grid disturbances. This capability helps mitigate growing load demand and reduce the energy burden on communities challenged by s evere weather disasters.  
 Technologies like grid-interactive UPS systems represent just one piece of what may be included in a data center’s converged energy system, allowing it to most effectively use available energy to meet computing demands. By allowing data centers to structure their own energy portfolio, policymakers can hasten commercialization of new and evolving energy resources and spur innovation. Other technologies that data centers can leverage to optimize their energy usage and serve as grid stabilizers include:  
 
• Innovative cooling systems: The required density of AI clusters in data centers will 
require evolutions in cooling technologies. While conventional data center cooling systems may remain sufficient to manage less dense clusters and inference servers , a shift 
from air cooling to liquid – or other innovative – cooling systems will improve 
performance and reduce energy costs while safely managing the temperature within AI 
data centers.
16 Innovation must continue to both ensure the responsible use of water for 
liquid cooling applications and source engineered fluids that can safely supplement water resources.
17 
• Microgrids : Microgrids can incorporate almost any form of generation, including natural 
gas, CHP, fuel cells, or solar, and many also integrate robust energy storage systems, enabling them to play a role across the entire range of various potential data center co-location configurations. The key piece of technology that defines a microgrid is its controller (the energy control center) which is comprised of hardware and software that allows the microgrid to separate from the main grid during power outages and switch to its on -site generators to supply continuous power to a data center
18. In the face of outages 
or disruptions, the on-site system can take over automatically so that operations run seamlessly until grid power is restored. This functional capability reinforces the value of these assets as an additive solution in the co- located ap proach to data centers.  
• Energy management systems  (EMS
): By using advanced controls, optimizing data center 
operations, and leveraging rapidly advancing AI for load forecasting in energy management systems, data center operators can also reduce data center energy consumption and integrate them with the local grid without sacrificing computational capacity.   
• Distributed energy resource management systems  (DERM
S): DERMS are designed to 
manage diverse and dispersed distributed energy resources, both individually and in aggregate. They enable utilities  / grid operators to efficiently manage consumer 
16 Victor Avelar, Patrick Donovan, Paul Lin, Wendy Torell, and Maria A. Torres Arango, The AI Disruption: Challenges and 
Guidance for Data Center Design , Schneider Electric – Energy Management Research Center, Sep. 7, 2023, at 10.  
17 Id. at 13.  
18 Microgrid Knowledge and Data Center Frontier, Data Center Microgrids: The Case for Microgrids at Data Centers, 2022 at  
https://download.schneider -
electric.com/files?p_Doc_Ref=22511651_en&p_enDocType=Brochure&p_File_Name=Microgrids+for+Data+Centers.pdf .   


electricity demand and apply the capabilities of flexible demand-side energy resources. 
DERMS can be particularly effective in integrating BTM assets with the grid, providing dynamic load management and bidirectional power flows.
19 For data centers to act as grid 
resources and stabilizers, DERMS can effectively manage both FTM and BTM systems, enabling dynamic load management and bidirectional power flows, thus enhancing grid stability and resilience . 
•Digital twins: Digital twins are a virtual representation of a physical asset, process, or
system t hat is continuously updated with real- time data . They provide real- time
monitoring, predictive maintenance, energy optimization, and enhanced grid interaction,ultimately improving both data center operations and grid stability.
20
In the abs ence of regulatory guidance, most advancements in data center flexibility are being 
driven by voluntary private- sector initiatives.  While these initiatives have spurred innovation and 
demonstrated the potential for data centers to act as flexible grid resources, they are inherently limited by the lack of standardized frameworks and incentives that only regulatory and policy guidance can provide. Regulatory guidance is essential to driving progress towards data center flexibility demonstration beca use it can establish clear, consistent standards for energy 
management, load balancing, and integration with the grid.
21 Without such guidance, private-
sector efforts may remain fragmented and insufficient to address the broader challenges of limited power supply, transmission and distribution capacity, and outdated infrastructure. Furthermore, regulatory policies can incentivize investments in advanced technologies and infrastructure upgrades, ensuring that data centers can reliably support national security and technological innovation. Therefore, private -sector initiatives alone cannot propel meaningful 
progress on this critical issue, balancing the competing priorities of American technological  
innovation and national security will require comprehensive policy frameworks that can  guide 
and support the development of flexible, resilient data centers capable of meeting the demands of a rapidly evolving digital landscape. 
Strengthen the Supply of Energy Resources and Products  Supporting the AI Boom  
From both the  supply- and demand -side perspectives, the data center and AI boom represents a 
bold opportunity to leverage a key segment of America’s economic engine to stabilize and power the grid. As a major consumer of electricity, data centers can – wit h the right policy and 
economic drivers – responsibly use the electricity they receive and generate to A) ensure sufficient availability of electricity for other utility consumers and B) provide excess and stored power back to the grid. This capability hinges on the availability and reliability of supply of existing and new energy resources as well as the availability of supply chains critical to building out data centers and power infrastructure. 
19 ESG News, Schneider Electric Acceleratews Grid Modernization with Advanced DERMS, AI -poweerd Solutions, and Open 
Collaboration, Feb. 29, 2024 at https://esgnews.com/schneider -electric -accelerates -grid-modernization -with -advanced -derms -ai-
powered -solutions -and-open -collaboration/ .  
20 AVEVA, Digital twin software , 2025 at  https://www.aveva.com/en/solutions/digital-transformation/digital-twin/ .  
21 Milrose Consultants, The Future of Data Center Development: Regulatory Trends Shaping the Industry , Mar. 3, 2025 at 
https://www.milrose.com/insights/the -future-of -data-center -development .  


Assess Availability  and Corresponding Timelines to Power for “All -of-the-Above” Energy 
Resources  
 
Today, several power resources for powering modern data centers – including nuclear, fuel cells, 
and natural gas turbines – are challenged by limited commercialization or development, high costs, permitting and regulatory delays, and/or supply chain backlogs. These energy generation sources, together with other distributed energy resources and renewables, can combine to provide data centers with a diverse, reliable energy portfolio capable of maintaining AI workloads. Increasingly, data center operators are looking to co- locate power generation sources on -site to 
reduce dependence on strained electrical grids, improve reliability, and support scalability. Combined with the varying maturity of available and newer energy resources, the lack of regulatory support for co-location challenges the ability of data center operators to access secure and reliable power generation.  
 
Today, data centers leverage backup power systems – typically comprising diesel-generators and 
a UPS – to ensure continuity of service. As AI workloads increase and fluctuate, the inability of 
these systems  to run continuously present s problems for AI data centers seeking consistent 
access to power . Leveraging and intelligently connecting various backup power technologies, 
including battery energy storage systems, with prime power sources is essential to data centers 
serving as grid stabilizers. Today, data centers are considering a myriad of different energy resources for prime and backup power, including:  Small Modular Reactors (SMRs) : In the f
uture, SMRs can serve as a stable, low-carbon energy 
source for high- performance computing facilities. Because SMRs are small and site-flexible, 
they can be deployed widely and built quickly on- site at an existing data center campus. 
Depending on energy consumpti on, the number of SMRs can be scaled to meet a data center’s 
evolving demands. Therefore, when deployed strategically and at scale, SMRs supply reliable, baseload power independent of the grid, increasing the r esilience of energy systems while 
reducing energy costs for consumers. Challenges to the buildout of SMRs include regulatory hurdles, public concerns over nuclear fuel, and high upfront costs.
22 
 
Natural Gas and Hybrid Solutions:  High -efficiency natural gas plants, coupled with combined 
heat and power (CHP) systems, can offer reliable, lower -emission baseload power thereby 
making it an increasingly popular option for data center operators exploring co-location 
configurations. Schne ider Electric believes that natural gas turbines will be the most commonly 
used prime power alternative in the coming years due to the technology’s maturity, cost, fuel flexibility, reliability, deployment speed, and scalability relative to other prime power options.
23 
However, supply chain backlogs may challenge the short-term deployment of natural gas turbines as an immediate response to growing load demand from data centers.  
 
On-Site Energy Storage: The incorporation of battery storage and distributed energy resources 
can help data centers manage peak demand and lower emissions. On-site energy storage systems 
22 Patrick Donovan, The Looming Power Crunch: Solutions for Data Center Expansion in an Energy -Constrained World, 
Schneider Electric, Jan. 8, 2025 at  16. 
23 Patrick Donovan, The Looming Power Crunch: Solutions for Data Center Expansion in an Energy -Constrained World, 
Schneider Electric, Jan. 8, 2025 at 16.  


like lithium-ion battery energy storage systems (Li-ion BESS) provide additional backup power, 
decrease reliance on diesel generators, and enable market participation and demand charge avoidance.
24 Li-Ion BESS, in particular, is a mature, safe technology capable of supporting 
runtimes of one to four hours.25 
Leveragi ng on-site energy storage in any form is necessary to empower data centers to truly 
stabilize the grid and power their own operations. Without sufficient on- site energy storage 
capacity, a data center will not be able to remove their load from the grid as needed or directed. Furthermore, an  Energy -as-a-Service (EaaS)  model enables enterprises to integrate on -site 
distributed energy without upfront capital investment, helping to accelerate deployment.    
Fuel Cells : In regions with limited grid power, fuel cells may serve as an alternative for prime 
power to data centers. Challenges with deploying fuel cells broadly include cost, longer startup times, the need for additional infrastructure, and difficulties in follo wing larger swings in load 
demand. Additionally, the constrained supply of green hydrogen challenges fuel cell adoption.
26  
Flexible  policy that enables the interconnection of these resources both in front-of- and behind-
the-meter, as well as spurs private sector innovation to speed development of new American energy resources, will benefit all American energy consumers. 
Bolster Supply Chains Supporting the AI Economy 
Complex suppl y chains – from raw materials to advanced technological components – are 
necessary to support the buildout and success of America’s AI economy. Not only should the Administration consider the reliability of supply chains supporting infrastructure internal to data centers, but it must also consider implications of supply chain challenges that impact the U.S. 
grid. Shortages in supply of semiconductor components, servers, cooling systems and components, networking equipment, back-up systems, and storage devices are likely to impact the development and expansion of data centers in the United States. Outside of the data center, supply chains for critical minerals (including copper, lithium, metals  etc.) and critical grid 
components (including transformers, switchgear, electrical steel, and other power distribution equipment) face issues with availability, resiliency, and backlogs.  
It is cr ucial the Trump Administration continue working to mitigate these supply chain gaps by 
building domestic capacity and working with trading partners to fortify trusted supply chains that are critical to the American AI economy.  
The concept of modern data centers serving as grid stabilizers presents an opportunity for the Administration to leverage the AI boom to power America’s energy independence. By making the most of our new and existing energy resources – including via growing markets and 
24 Steven Carlini, Data centers and the power squeeze – is this an opportunity for innovation?, Data Center Dynamics, Aug. 27, 
2024 at https://www.datacenterdynamics.com/en/opinions/data-centers -and-the-power-squeeze-is -this-an-opportunity-for -
innovation/ .; See Patrick Donovan, Understanding BESS: Battery Energy Storage Systems for Data Centers , Schnei der Electric, 
Nov. 13, 2024.   
25 Patrick Donovan, The Looming Power Crunch: Solutions for Data Center Expansion in an Energy -Constrained World, 
Schneider Electric, Jan. 8, 2025 at 13. 
26 Id. at 16 


segments (inclusive of data centers, re-shored manufacturing, etc.), and investing in the strength 
of relevant supply chains, the Administration can ensure America leads the world in energy affordability, innovation, and reliability.   
Drive Investment in the Future of AI in America  
 
American innovation and tenacity have propelled the AI boom, and sustaining that trajectory 
requires close partnership between the public and private sectors to work towards investments and innovations that are most meaningful and impactful to the U.S. economy.   Certainty and consistency in tax policy, strong investments in research and development (R&D), and a rational regulatory landscape that considers differences in technology by application and 
sector will continue to spur private sector investment at the pace necessary to guarantee American AI leadership.  
 
Support Research and Development 
 America’s leadership in innovation through R&D is particularly crucial to our national security and economic competitiveness. Today, Schneider Electric plays a role through our commitment to advancing energy-efficient AI infrastructure through strategic R&D initiatives. In 2024, we invested $2.4 billion globally to support R&D efforts, including the establishment of new data center and microgrid testing labs at our Innovation Hub in Andover, Massachusetts, just outside 
our U.S. headquarters in Boston.27 With this added investment, we have over 40 labs in Andover, 
including a Power Distribution Unit (PDU) lab to test high- powered voltage systems that are 
designed and developed for the AI data center market. Innovations in liquid cooling, AI-optimized power management, and next- generation semiconductor efficiency  are essential to 
reducing the energy demands of AI, and this is an effort that we’ve committed to through our investment in liquid cooling technologies. 
Schneider Electric also leads AI R&D through our dedicated global AI Hub  comprised of over 
350 experts. The AI Hub serves as a global center of excellence utilizing AI technologies to 
transform and optimize energy management and industrial automation. Some of the examples include energy flexibility optimization for Microgrids and homes, HVAC optimization f or 
buildings, and predictive maintenance for Electrical Distribution equipment. When the AI Hub was launched in 2021, GenAI technology was not yet prevalent the way it is today. However, with the emergence of these new tools, we created a dedicated GenAI core team to work closely with internal stakeholders and external partners, like Microsoft and Amazon, to detect early application opportunities that can drive efficiency gains and help achieve sustainable growth. For instance,  our Resource Advisor Copilot  leverages Large Language Model (LLM) technology 
through Microsoft Azure OpenAI to equip customers with enhanced data analysis, visualization, decision support, performance optimization, and the ability to seamlessly process intricate 
27 Schneider Electric, Schneider Electric Opens New Data Center and Microgrid Testing Labs at Global R&D Center in 
Massachusetts, Feb. 27, 2025 at https://www.se.com/us/en/about-us/newsroom/news/press -releas es/schneider -electric-opens -
new-data-center -and-microgrid -testing -labs -at-global -r-d-center -in-massachusetts -67b4ab53ee870308eb057e31 .  


industry knowledge and Resource Advisor system information.28 This demonstrates our 
commitment to being on the cutting -edge of innovation and delivering the benefits of these 
technological advancements to our customers, including the development and application of AI 
solutions.  
Partnerships across the private sector and public sector will be critical to the future of AI in 
America. To that end, continued investments in the Department of Energy’s national laboratories and support for private sector R&D – including through immediate  expensing – are critical to 
making America the world’s premier AI R&D engine.  
Determinations of Risk Should be Use- and Sector- Specifi
c 
Allowing developers and deployers of AI to self-assess risk for their unique use cases and organize their risk management processes creates flexibility for organizations to appropriately manage risk for their unique use cases. While organizations may have diverse ways to carry out a risk assessment, leveraging voluntary private sector-led consensus standards and voluntary tools like the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) AI Risk Management Framework (AI RMF) can provide a uniform language for AI risk management throughout the lifecycle.  
 For critical infrastructure use cases, it is critical the government continue working with the private sector to properly assign risk and regulate AI use. Efforts like the Department of Energy’s initial risk assessment  on the use of AI in critical energy infrastructure are important 
steps toward building a clearer common understanding of the risks and rewards of AI’s use in critical infrastructure. Developed in partnership with Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL), energy sector owners and operators, and other technical subject matter experts, this 
effort is also an important example of the public-private cooperation needed to advance safe and secure AI in critical infrastructure. As a long -standing partner and the first participating 
manufacturer to test products used in the U.S. grid through DOE’s Cyber Testing for Resilient Industrial Control Systems ( CyTRICS ) program , Schneider Electric recognizes the importance of 
industry collaboration and deeply values opportunities to partner with the U.S. government to secure American critical infrastructure.  
Advance Responsible AI Cybersecurity Policies  
Schneider Electric views AI as both an opportunity and a challenge in maintaining its cybersecurity posture. This dual perspective underscores our proactive approach to integrating AI into our operations and products. For example, by embedding AI into thre at detection 
systems, Schneider Electric enhances its ability to identify and mitigate cyber risks in real time —
a critical capability in today’s rapidly evolving digital landscape. At the same time, Schneider Electric recognizes that the security of AI is paramount when that AI is used to control and 
28 Schneider Electric, Building Sustainability’s Digital Future with EcoStruxure Resource Advisor Copilot: Schneider Electric’s 
Latest AI Advancement, Aug. 29, 2023 at https://www.se.com/ww/en/about -us/ne wsroom/news/press -releases/building -
sustainability%E2%80%99s -digital -future-with -ecostruxure%E2%84%A2-resource-advisor -copilot -schneider -
electric%E2%80%99s -latest -ai-advancement -64eca1cf6053e3d1d90ab96e .  


operate critical infrastructure. Schneider Electric’s Secure Development Lifecycle incorporates 
myriad controls to make sure AI is securely and responsibly developed for integration into our energy efficiency and industrial automation products. Led by our global AI Hub, our AI efforts are implemented with responsible AI practices, ensuring deployment is safe, trustworthy, and ethical.  
At the s ame time, Schneider Electric recognizes that the security of AI is paramount when that 
AI is used to control and operate critical infrastructure. Schneider Electric’s Secure Development Lifecycle incorporates myriad controls to make sure AI is safely, securely, and responsibly developed for integration into our energy efficiency and industrial automation products. 
Conclusion 
As a key infrastructure provider from chip to data center to grid, Schneider Electric hopes the Trump Administration will leverage our work and expertise as a resource as it develops its AI Action Plan and future policies around AI and energy. Our recent investments in the U.S. are paving the path for a stronger, more resilient domestic supply chain supporting data center and grid buildout and we look forward to continuing to partner with the Trump Administration to make the most of these efforts.  
For more information regarding the contents of our submission, please contact: 
Jeannie Salo, Chief Public Policy Officer, 
Erica Fit zgerald , Director , Federal Government Relations, 
Amanda Cor rado, Manager, Federal Government Relations, 
This document  is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 


