From: Scott Fronapfel
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Sunday, March 16, 2025 12:05:15 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Warm greetings to the NITRD and NCO teams!
I want to provide an additional voice as a freelance artist and a software developer in the
entertainment industry.
Generative AI was created using legal grey zones with almost non-existent ethical constraints.
Most of these data scrapers were initially indirectly funded by private companies even thoughmany of the datasets "claim" to be open source and for public research. I believe MachineLearning and other ventures into AI research are valuable to human life and the technologicalprogression of our country, but want to warn against allowing personal data, copyright, andthe work of small businesses and artists from being used license free by companies who seemto create tools and products which replace the value of those hard working American citizens.
The novelty of generative AI in both imagery and text is quickly replaced once users
understand the frequency of hallucinations, and the active INTENT by these companies for theproducts to be used for ill-advised use cases (including historical document reconstruction,law advice, and replacing artists by actively using machines designed to copy them). We livein an era where generated content has actively replaced human content on the internet, andfurther pollutes political and historical knowledge with believable fake likenesses in voice,video, and verbiage.
I propose that existing copyright be maintained or modified to further protect creative human
works, and that generative AI continue to be restricted to items actively in public domain andthat no output from a non-human generative software be considered for human ownership. Ialso strongly opposed the idea that generative AI, which is largely enhancements to auto-complete algorithms and image upscaler, be properly separated in verbiage from machinelearning used for medicine and from proper attempts to create AGI (Artificial GeneralIntelligence) which is an entirely different field of research and does not rely on cloning andpolluting existing human works and information.
Thank you for your time!
Scott Fronapfel
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


