3/13/2025 via FDM S 
Scott Tuffiash, pa.us 
My name is Scott Tuffiash and I am a high school Language Arts and Journalism teacher at 
Avonworth High School in Pittsburgh. I currently teach a new course for this school, and it seems maybe a new course for almost any public school, titled "Human Flouri shing" and I 
completed teaching another new course last semester for high school seniors titled "AI and 
Ethics". Because of this phrase matching the Human Flourishing course I currently teach -” 
With the right governmental policies, continued U.S. AI leadership will promote human 
ﬂourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security.", and because I have studied viewpoints on innovation and regulation regarding Artiﬁcial Intelligence products to create the AI and Ethics class and then teach it, I am  submitting comments myself and asking 
about 50 students from this school to do the same today and tomorrow. Less regulation - through Executive Order 14179 - will allow further experimentation of AI products in the free 
market of US consumers. What is the  current potency of AI products and how can they 
impact a consumer? At its best, an AI product can offer mathematically derived insights that offer a consumer a variety of outputs. Improved productivity at a job, more efficient 
use of professional and pers onal time, potentially improved sense of well -being or 
purpose: these are potential beneﬁts of a less regulated market of products. Unfortunately, 
less regulation places the burden of ethical innovation on the consumer instead of the producer. What is at stake then? In the worst case scenario, the mental wellbeing of the consumer…and then potentially the physical life of the consumer itself. Consider 
https://techcrunch.com/2024/10/23/lawsuit -blames- character -ai-in-death -of-14-year -old-
boy/. Vice President Vance suggested at the AI Summit in France that products targeting 
minors are going to be regulated. But what about the same exact impact of a product built 
with effective addictive design, unregulated, for a 19 year old? Is the human brain that much more developed at 19 compared to 14? How do we prove that distinction between 14 
and 19, reliably, scientiﬁcally? Without the onus of regulation on for -proﬁt companies to 
transparently display addictive design qualities, and furthermore legal ramiﬁcations fo r 
companies to suffer signiﬁcant ﬁnancial losses if they promote addictive design products 
and can legally hide the design, innovation becomes secondary to a damaged free market of consumers of all ages. Rather then a complete removal of content like the  AI Bill of 
Rights from the prior administration, there should be a re -opening, however swift, for more 
transparent sharing of information, debate, and policy change within this Presidency, like President Trump's White House website from his ﬁrst term of office: https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/ai/ai -american-innovation/  


