1 
In Support of Federal Funding for the  
National Artificial Intelligence Research Resource (NAIRR) 
San Diego Supercomputer Center 
(UC San Diego) 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  
The United States of America presently dominates AI globally because of our 
intellectual and technological leadership in hardware, software, and algorithms. To 
sustain and enhance this dominance requires a robust ecosystem that includes—in 
addition to industry across all sectors—a thriving start-up culture, our national 
laboratories, and our world-leading academic research and education enterprise. Higher 
education not only trains the workforce of the future; it makes the discoveries of the 
future and translates foundational discoveries into practical applications for science, 
industry, and society. We recommend that the federal government turn the National AI Research 
Resource (NAIRR) Pilot program into a fully fledged and funded program that 
leverages the complementary strengths of federal agencies, national laboratories, 
private foundations, the national university research enterprise, and 
industry—from small start-ups to the world’s largest companies. University 
research centers have been critical to the implementation of the NAIRR Pilot and 
are strategically placed for leadership in a full NAIRR program. In the following, we explain why university research centers should be an essential part 
of the AI Action Plan via examples of some of the San Diego Supercomputer Center’s 
activities that are exemplars for such research centers throughout the country. Centers 
like SDSC are national assets in maximizing the return on federal investments in AI and 
ensuring that the U.S. remains at the cutting edge. 
The San Diego Supercomputer Center, part of the School of Computing, Information, 
and Data Sciences at UC San Diego, is uniquely positioned to complement the 
multi-sector strengths that comprise the nation’s thriving AI ecosystem. Founded in the 
1980s to support the nation’s growing scientific computing and data processing needs, 
SDSC is one of the premier academic centers for high-performance and data-intensive 


2 
computing. Over the last four decades, SDSC has enabled and led groundbreaking 
advancements in data and computationally intensive science.  
Today the center harnesses its long-standing expertise to advance AI innovation. SDSC 
strategically bridges gaps needed for discovery within the multi-sector AI landscape. 
This notably includes translating data and fundamental science into actionable 
knowledge and products; catalyzing AI-powered breakthroughs to accelerate discovery 
in high-impact fields—from fusion energy to personalized medicine to disaster 
management and prevention—enabling the incubation of discoveries that can later be 
brought to scale through industry partnerships; providing curated solutions to academic 
and industry researchers through open-source software development and maintenance; 
and collaborating with industry to make the use of data and compute resources needed 
for AI-intensive scientific research in academia possible. Maximizing the continued 
impact that institutions like SDSC can have for the nation necessitates strategic 
federal funding investments in research on AI algorithms and systems, as well as 
the full range of applications of AI to science, technology, and industry.  We provide two specific examples of long-standing programs led by SDSC that 
demonstrate how federal investments have had a role in catalyzing the advancement of 
cutting-edge scientific discovery that positively impacts the nation. These cases are 
models for research centers across the country, with different foci, that are developing 
and applying AI advancements to address pressing challenges facing the nation. These 
institutions nationwide are collectively an invaluable resource that the AI Action Plan 
can and should tap into via the creation of NAIRR.  For over a decade, SDSC has developed a research portfolio that applies AI to improve 
outcomes related to wildfires through cross-sector partnerships and collaboration. 
Research outcomes include mountaintop cameras, backcountry communications 
networks, multi-modal data commons, fire detection, and modeling algorithms, to name 
just a few. Research outcomes are operationalized to inform wildfire management and 
firefighter training to both combat active fires and mitigate the risk of future fires. This 
includes modeling the spread of active wildfires to protect public safety and property in 
real time. Meritoriously awarded federal research funding had an important role in the 
development of these efforts, which have gone from research incubation to fully-fledged 
tools and services scaled through public-private-research partnerships with utilities, 
state agencies, and the private sector. This research saves lives and reduces the 
economic devastation caused by wildfires.  The second highlighted research program collects and analyzes internet data in support 
of protecting national security. This portfolio developed technology that uses deep 


3 
learning that allows the U.S. military to use commercial 5G networks while minimizing 
risk to adversarial control or observation of communications. Funded initially by the 
federal government, this work resulted in the founding of a start-up company to 
commercialize some of the technology. Follow-on research efforts have focused on 
better understanding the global Internet through AI-driven insights in support of 
informing national security and engineering advancements.    
In addition to leading projects that address profound domestic challenges, SDSC and 
university research centers have had a pivotal leadership role in enabling AI-intensive 
discovery—including through the NAIRR Pilot.  
The NAIRR program, a result of the National AI Initiative created during the first Trump 
Administration, is unparalleled in its scope across more than a dozen federal agencies, 
industry, private foundations, and academia. Its blueprint envisions compute, data, 
software, and training resources in AI for the nation. An initial pilot program was started 
in early 2024 by NSF, DOE, NIH, NOAA, and NASA under the leadership of the NSF. It 
includes resources from DoD, DOE, NASA, NIH, NOAA, USDA, USGS, and USPTO, as 
well as national HPC systems run by university research centers like SDSC. Industry 
partners (AWS, Azure, Google, NVIDIA, OpenAI, Anthropic, Hugging Face, Groq, 
Cerebras, SambaNova, Databricks, Weights & Biases, and others) have contributed 
access to some of their products and services at substantial levels.  SDSC is presently making many contributions to this NAIRR Pilot. The SDSC 
CloudBank project manages the several tens of millions of dollars in cloud credit 
committed by private industry, including AWS, Azure, and Google. As a next step, 
CloudBank is working with the SDSC Sherlock program to allow for the use of regulated 
data via these cloud credits. Sherlock provides data management and access solutions 
for regulated data. We provide scientific research computing support to select science 
projects on the NVIDIA DGX Cloud that enabled the consumption of $30M in cloud 
credit, so far, committed by NVIDIA to the NAIRR Pilot. These commercial resources all 
complement the national HPC systems, run by university research centers like SDSC, 
that are available through the NAIRR Pilot. SDSC develops and operates immersive 
digital environments for science, called “Science Gateways,” that have more than 2M 
unique users per year. SDSC has a wide range of projects focused around the 
translation of data into actionable knowledge, arguably one of the most compelling 
needs of modern times. Those projects cover the entire vertical stack from storage to 
content delivery networks to the meaning of data and knowledge and their organization 
and management. Several of those are engaged with the NAIRR Pilot.  


4 
The full-scale implementation of NAIRR will fundamentally support the advancement of 
AI research in the U.S. We respectfully encourage the federal government to include 
NAIRR in its AI Action Plan, and to prioritize the launch of the competitive award 
process for the NAIRR Operating Entity (OE). As outlined in the NAIRR blueprint, the 
OE, will efficiently organize the access, training, and governance related to all resources 
in NAIRR, critically bridging gaps across the multi-sector AI landscape in support of 
world-leading AI research and real-world impact. The blueprint additionally envisions 
that resources be funded via a NAIRR program, in addition to all of the contributed 
resources across government, industry, philanthropy, and academia. For decades, 
university and federal research centers have served as a national asset by innovating at 
the frontiers of science and technology; this work has significantly contributed to the 
nation’s current status as a world leader in AI. These centers are strategically positioned 
to continue to lead and enable innovations at the forefront of AI. Sustaining and 
advancing the nation’s AI dominance is time-sensitive and urgent in this moment 
of extreme global competition. Thus, we recommend the expeditious 
implementation of NAIRR through the federal government’s AI Action Plan in a 
way that fully leverages the leadership that university research centers can 
provide. 


