From: Sean McDermott
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan subject line
Date: Sunday, March 16, 2025 12:56:47 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Hello,
My name is Sean McDermott and I'm writing to submit a public comment for the AI Action
Plan to urge the strongest possible regulation and accountability for companiescreating,
 utilizing, and manipulating data using artificial  intelligence (AI) technology.  
AI is fundamentally parasitic technology. While there are definitely uses that can benefitsociety, private corporations are being subsidized by the government, driving up energy costsfor the public, and taking a huge toll on the environment.
 
That is to say nothing of the harmful, discriminatory practices that investigations haverepeatedly shown to be ingrained in AI usage across both public and private systems that thepublic has no way of opting out of.
 
Reporting has detailed how widespread the harms caused by AI are, from improperly denyingcritical benefits to vulnerable people to halting progress toward reducing emissions. It has costAmericans jobs, harmed students' education, and its tremendous environmental impacts haveyet to be fully counted.
 
Some of the many important articles detailing these wrongs are by journalist Lois Parshley,including "Rage Against The Algorithm," published at The Lever(https://www.levernews.com/rage-against-the-algorithm/
), and "The Unknown Toll of the AI
Takeover ( https://www.levernews.com/the-unknown-toll-of-the-ai-takeover/ ).
It is ludicrous to assert that AI is necessary for national security. AI companies have stolencopyrighted works, breaking multiple laws, and now seek to retroactively protect their ill-gotten gains by manipulating the federal government.
I am firmly opposed to allowing OpenAI to profit as Americans suffer and pay the price. I
 
urge NIST to immediately reconsider and constrict its Development of an Artificial
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan, and refuse to codify AI training as fair use, which would make amockery of the term.
Per your instructions, this document is approved for public dissemination. The documentcontains no business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may bereused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents withoutattribution.
I hope that NIST takes this opportunity to put the public good over unfettered corporateexploitation and profit.
 
Thank you for your consideration,


Sean McDermott
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


