Page 1
March  15, 202 5 
Submitted via Regulations.gov  and Email  
AI Action Plan  
Attn: Faisal D'Souza  
National Coordination Office  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
RE: “Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan ,” 90 Fed. Reg. 9,088  (February  6, 202 5) 
The Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) is the national trade association of the U.S. solar 
and storage industry. Our members promote the responsible development of distributed rooftop 
and utility -scale solar energy and storage projects. We are committed to working with federal 
agencies and other stakeholders to achieve this goal. As the national trade association for the 
U.S. solar and storage industry, which employs  280,000 Americans, SEIA represents over 1,200 
organizations that manufacture, install, and support the development of solar and storage 
projects . 
On behalf of our member companies, SEIA appreciates the opportunity to provide these 
comments on the  Office of Science and Technology Policy’s (OSTP) request for information , 
“Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan ,” 90 
Fed. Reg. 9,088 (February 6, 2025)  (RFI).1 
I. Introduction
Advancing American energy dominance and security is a top priority for  SEIA and  the solar and 
storage industry. Solar energy is clean, abundant, and the United States has some of the richest 
solar resources in the world. It is an energy solution that provides reliable electricity, increases 
consumer choice, and helps consumers and bu siness owners save money on their utility bills. 
Critically, solar energy components are increasingly made right here at home, positioning our 
nation as a geostrategic technology leader while reducing trade deficits.  
1 This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  


March  15, 2025 
Page 2 
President Trump is correct that we must “sustain and enhance America's global AI dominance in 
order to promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security.”2 To 
assert our country’s AI dominance, we must ensure there is enough energy to support  the rapidly 
growing industry.  Meeting the  Administration’s energy dominance and security goals will 
require an “all-of-the-above” energy strategy . We need every source  of energy  at our disposal  to 
meet this historic demand, and solar and energ y storage play a vital role.  
II. Obstacles Created by Unprecedented Energy  Demands
The RFI “seeks input on the highest priority policy actions that should be in the new AI Action 
Plan” on AI policy topics including “energy consumption and efficiency.”3 In order to reach the 
levels of energy production needed to match projected energy demand from the AI sector , the AI 
Action Plan should recognize the vital role of all energy sources , including solar and energy 
storage , in powering data centers.  
With the surging adoption of digitization and AI technologies, the need for energy -intensive data 
centers has already skyrocketed  and will continue to grow  exponentially . Recent conservative 
estimates show that energy  demand from U.S. data centers is expected to reach 606 terawatt -
hours (TWh) by 2030, which is a drastic increase from the 147 TWh demand in 2023. Data 
centers currently make up 3.7% of the U.S. total energy  demand, and this is projected to increase 
to 11.7% by 2030.4 
After decades  of flat power demand, the grid is now seeing significant increases in load growth .5 
This historic demand grow th—the largest since World War II —presents  great challenges at a 
moment in time that requires  a comprehensive solution . The grid is aging. Old, uneconomic 
plants are retiring. And growing interconnection  queues across the country have created  long 
delays  in bringing n ew sourc es of generation online .6 While some data center developers have 
sought to co -locate their facilities with existing generation on the grid, such arrangements create  
2 Executive Order 14179, “Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence ” 
(January 23, 2025 ). 
3 90 Fed. Reg. 9,088 . 
4 Alastair Green  et al. , “How Data Centers and the Energy Sector can Sate AI’s Hunger for 
Power ” (September 17, 2024 ), available at  https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/private -
capital/our -insights/how -data-centers -and-the-energy -sector -can-sate-ais-hunger -for-power#/ .  
5 John Wilson and Zach Zimmerman, “The Era of Flat Power Demand is Over ” (December 
2023 ), available at https://gridstrategiesllc.com/wp -content/uploads/2023/12/National -Load -
Growth -Report -2023.pdf  at 4. 
6 Improvements to Generator Interconnection Procedures and Agreements , Order No. 2023, 184 
FERC ¶ 61,054, P 37 (2023).  


March  15, 2025 
Page 3 
potential grid reliability and resource adequacy concerns .7 Ensuring signi ficant new sources o f 
reliable electricity to data  centers and manufacturing facilities raises reliability, economic 
development, and national security concerns.  
III. Natural Gas Generation Alone is Insufficient to Timely Meet Rising D emand
Electric utilities  have been struggl ing to keep up with projected data center  energy  demand s as 
generation and transmission projects are bottlenecked by various constraints and shortages. 
Natural gas combustion turbine plants , with potentially  high fuel and pipeline infrastructure 
costs,  are specifically designed to provide extra power during short periods of high demand  and 
are not economic to run around the clock . Natural gas combined cycle plants, while designed to 
run at higher capacity factors, have recently seen sizable increases in costs and supply chain 
delays. Gas plants also must be located near existing major gas pipelines, which have their own 
development and construction challenges. Large gas plants  can be the most  challenging t ype of 
energy project to develop due to per mitting, supply  chain , labor, and other issues. Furthermore, 
all natural gas generators are exposed to  potential  fuel price increases and volatility, making their 
lifecycle costs unknowable  and increasing commercial risks for offtakers . 
These obstacles have recently led to large delays and cancellations for planned natural gas 
generation  projects. For example,  in February  2025, Engie withdrew  two natural gas project s in 
Texas  meant to help meet data center energy demand  due to “equipment procurement 
constrain ts, among other factors.”8 
Both the largest builder of gas -fired generation  in the U.S. over the past decade , Next Era, and the 
largest seller of gas turbines, GE Vernova, have recognized massive constraints  for natural gas  
projects . NextEra’s CEO recently stated  on a January 2025 earnings call that : 
Gas-fired generation is moving forward but won’t be available at 
scale until 2030, and then only in certain pockets of the U.S.  In 
addition, gas-fired generation is more expensive than it's been, with 
costs having more than doubled over the last five years due to the 
limited supply of gas turbines, a constrained supply chain and much 
higher [engineering, procurement and construction]  costs.9 
7 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. , Comm. Christie  Concurring Statement,  189 FERC ¶ 61,078  
(2024) . 
8 See https://www.latitudemedia.com/news/engies -pulled -project -highlights -the-worsening -
economics -of-gas/.  
9 See https://www.investor.nexteraenergy.com/~/media/Files/N/NEE -IR/news -and-
events/events -and-presentations/2025/Final_Q4%202024%20Script.pdf .  


March  15, 2025 
Page 4 
GE Vernova , which also partnered with Chevron to develop 4  gigawatts  (GW) of gas power 
plants specifically for data centers , is now facing a backlog for new gas turbine deliveries 
stretching to 2029 or later.10 
IV. The Role of Solar and Storage
Solar and storage  is in many cases  the best option for providing the massive amount  of reliable 
power  data centers  need cheaply and quickly.  For the  reasons  below , solar and storage have 
become the lead ing energy provider  for data centers and other energy loads across the country.  
A.Cost Effectiveness
Solar energy is one of the most cost -effective  energy resources to build in the  country . The 
levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) in 2024 for utility -scale solar ranges from  $29/mega watt 
hour ( MWh ) to $92/MWh.  The LCOE for  natural gas peaker plants  is 2.5 to 4 times more 
expensive with a range  of $110/MWh to $228/MWh.  The table below  contain s the 2024 LCO Es 
for each  energy technolog y, which excludes tax incentives  and variable  fuel prices,  and 
demonstrates  the superior cost-effectiveness  of utility -scale solar.11 
Furthermore, s olar energy offers more predictable long -term costs because  it has a marginal fuel 
cost of zero . Financing  involve s the upfront cost of equipment , installation , and comparatively 
low maintenance  costs . 
10 See https://heatmap.news/ideas/natural -gas-turbine -crisis .  
11 “Levelized Cost of Energy+,” Lazard, (June 2024 ), available at  
https://www.lazard.com/media/xemfey0k/lazards -lcoeplus -june-2024 -_vf.pdf , at 9. 


March  15, 2025 
Page 5 
B.Construction Speed
Solar  and energy storage  are also the fastest energy resources to develop and deploy . Not only 
are they much simpler to engineer, but their supply chains are also  more robust than natural gas 
(which currently faces a bottleneck in gas turbine blades). Speed to market  is perha ps the most  
critical  factor  in meeting  pressing data center energy demand s, which cannot  wait for other 
energy resources to begin production in 2030 or later . 
Developing a  utility -scale solar project typically takes  only 1.4 years , and batteries only 1.7 
years.  The table below illustrates  how these timelines are  much faster than all other energy 
technologies.12 
C.Reliability
Solar and storage have proven they can  reliabl y provide the energy  that data centers  need . Solar 
not only generates electricity and supports the grid during normal operating conditions and 
periods , but also during  times of increased grid risk such as extreme storm s or period s of peak 
demand . Increasingly, utility -scale solar is being installed with battery storage, which can 
provide large amounts of stored energy to the grid when needed,  bolstering its  reliability and 
stability . Further studies have shown that high levels of solar and storage  adoption  can enhance 
the reliability of the U.S. electrical grid.13 
12 SEIA analysis of  U.S. Energy Information Administration  (EIA) Form 860M data for plants 
that have started reporting to EIA p rior to seeking regulatory approval and plants which have 
reached operating stat us. 
13 Gregory Brinkman et al., “The North American Renewable Integration Study: A U.S. 
Perspective,” NREL, (June 2021), available at  https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy21osti/79224.pdf . 


March  15, 2025 
Page 6 
Other energy sources have not fared  as well . Nearly half of Texas’  grid generation from gas and 
coal went down during a 2021 winter storm .14 During a 2022 winter storm which battered the 
Midwest and Nor theast, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  (FERC)  and the North 
American Electric Reliability Corp.  (NERC)  found that gas, coal , and oil -generated power 
accounted for 90% of the prolonged power outages experienced throughout the storm.15 PJM, the 
largest grid operator in the U.S.,  issued a report for the same winter storm noting gas-fired 
generation accounted for 70% of unplanned outages , largely due to equipment failu res from  
extreme col d and a lack of gas supply.16 When Winter Storm Heather hit Texas in January 2024, 
the grid was supported with three  times more  solar  and storage  than in 2021, which played a 
crucial role in  maintain ing power during a record high  peak demand .17 
D.The U.S. is on  a Path to Solar  Energy Domi nance
Overall, s olar energy has become  the proven leader in U.S. energy technolog ies. In 2024, the 
U.S. installed a record -breaking 50 GW of new solar capacity, the largest single year of new 
capacity added to the grid by any energy technology in over two decades.  In addition  to historic 
deployment, surging U.S. solar manufacturing emerged as a landmark economic story in 2024. 
Domestic solar module production tripled last year, and at full capacity, U.S. factories can now 
produce enough to meet nearly all demand for solar panel s in the country . Solar cell 
manufacturing also resumed in 2024, strengthening America’s energy supply chain and 
cementing its place as a solar powerhouse.18 
Solar and energy storage have been the energy source of choice for “hypers caler ” builders of data 
centers. For example,  in December 2024, Google announced  a $20 billion  investment  in renewable  
energy , including solar and storage assets,  by 2030 that will be “co-located” with their data centers.  
Google projects swift progress  as its first co -located clean energy project  is expected to start 
operating in 2026.19 
14 Monika O’Shea  et al.,  “Breaking Down the Texas Winter Blackouts: What Went Wrong? ,” 
Wood Mackenzie , (February 19, 2021), available at  
 https://www.woodmac.com/news/editorial/Breaking -down -the-texas -winter -blackouts/full -
report/ .  
15 “Inquiry into Bulk -Power System Operations During December 2022 Winter Storm Elliott ,” 
FERC, NERC, and regional entities , (October 2023), available at https://www.ferc.gov/news -
events/news/ferc -nerc-release -final-report -lessons -winter -storm -elliott .  
16 “Winter Storm Elliott Event Analysis and Recommendation Report ,” PJM, (July 17 , 2023) , 
available at 20230717 -winter -storm -elliott -event -analysis -and-recommendation -report.ashx .  
17 See https://www.washingtonpost.com/climate -solutions/2024/01/14/texas -grid-winter -storm -
power -outage/ .  
18 “Solar Market Insight Report: Q4 2024,”  SEIA and Woo d Mackenzie , (March 11, 2025 ), 
available at  https://seia.org/research -resources/us -solar -market -insight/ .  
19 See https://blog.google/inside -google/infrastructure/new -approach -to-data-center -and-clean -
energy -growth/ .  


March  15, 2025 
Page 7 
V. Conclusion
SEIA appreciates  the efforts by OSTP  to gather information to aid the develop ment of  the critical  
AI Action Plan . As described above, this is an important effort to a chieve  national AI dominance 
in order to  promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security . It can 
only be achieved if we harness the power of all energy sources at our disposal . This includes the  
important role of solar and storage  in effectively supporting the ongoing operations and future 
development of data centers . We look forward to continuing to work with you on this effort .  
Thank you for the opportunity to provide comments. If you have any questions, please contact 
Ben Norris at  or  or Alec Ward  at 
Sincerely,  
/s/ Sean Gallagher   
Sean Gallagher   
Senior Vice President of Policy   
Solar Energy Industries Association  
Ben Norris   
Vice President  of Regulatory Affairs  
Solar Energy Industries Association   
Alec Ward  
Senior Director of Regulatory Affairs  
Solar Energy Industries Association  


