To: Faisal D’Souza, NCO 
Office of Science and Technology Policy              
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314        
1 March 14, 2025 
SemiAnalysis LLC 
3896 Coastal Highway 
Crawfordville, Florida, 32327 
2415Eisenhower Avenue This document is approved for public dissemination. The document 
contains no business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.    
Re: 90 FR 9088 Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action 
Plan 
Response prepared by Dylan Patel and AJ Kourabi. 
Introduction 
To win in AI, the US needs to win in AI infrastructure. We outline specific problems facing the US from 
winning the infrastructure race and key steps to overcome them.  
We propose recommendations in four areas: 
Summary of Key Recommendations 
(1) US-based chip manufacturing:
a. Heavily incentivize three key manufacturing capabilities: advanced logic, packaging, and
HBM manufacturing.
b. Work across industry to enable the development and expansion of Intel Foundry’s R&D.
c. Fast-track or exempt chip manufacturing facilities from onerous permitting requirements.
d. Set a national goal for domestic capacity to meet 50% of AI chip demand by 2028.
(2) Energy supply for datacenters
a. Speed up grid interconnections (connecting local grids with power surplus to larger grids)
for both power generators and power consumers and promote flexible next-generation
solutions to improve overall grid utilization.
b. Simplify permitting datacenters to build their own power generation and natural gas
infrastructure by reducing EPA regulatory requirements for air pollution permits.
c. Increase transparency on data center electricity use to strengthen market efficiency,
improve pricing, and support investment growth.
(3) Export Control Regulations
a. Expand controls to accommodate for interconnect bandwidth and networking technology.
b. Control the Nvidia H20 GPU to limit China’s ability to develop advanced AI domestically.
c. Control semiconductor machine subsystems to prevent China from reengineering its way
around controls.
(4) Export Control Enforcement


  
2 
 a. Increase funding and resources allocated to the Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) for 
export enforcement. 
b. Pursue stronger coordination with allied countries on export controls to prevent stockpiling 
of restricted technologies. 
AI is the critical technology change of the next few decades. We believe that AI will increasingly replace 
traditional software and expand capabilities in every aspect of technology and industry.  
Traditional software has been labor-intensive but capital–light. Generative AI and large language models 
are not capital-light and represent a paradigm shift in infrastructure requirements. 
An important observation in AI is Scaling Laws, which demonstrates that an increase in computing 
power, data, and parameters corresponds to an increase in capabilities for a model. The continuous 
increase in capabilities means that while AI may not be able to fulfill many aspects of economic activity 
today, continued progress in computing power should lead to a meaningful impact in almost all 
knowledge work in the future.  
Like how most businesses were run not on the Internet pre-2000 and the following 20 years were about 
moving business and everyday functions to be Internet-enabled, AI will impact almost all information 
industries, such as biomedical engineering, manufacturing, software development, and military 
capabilities. The “digital transformation” will give way to AI transformation.  
Most leading US technologies understand the critical importance of AI. Chinese counterparts such as 
DeepSeek and Alibaba understand that that large-scale infrastructure is a key competitive advantage in 
pursuing AI capabilities. Both American companies and Chinese counterparts are now engaging in a 
trillion-dollar arms race – and it is important the US government enables better and faster industrial 
production to support the United States companies and industries that are pursuing AI capabilities.  
We believe that the US government can accomplish meaningful support to the burgeoning AI industry by 
following our four key suggestions. Starting with US manufacturing of the key element of AI: Compute.  
1) US-Based Manufacturing 
Today, we are at the lowest level of domestic semiconductor manufacturing in this country's history. 
Despite inventing the semiconductor  and creating most of the value from its subsequent 
industrialization, the U.S. struggles to produce semiconductors domestically today. Taiwan is 
committed to ensuring that the leading technologies remains in Taiwan and not be moved over to the 
U.S., despite considerable subsidies, including Research and Development (R&D).  
Supply of semiconductors must be guaranteed by onshoring manufacturing. Without capacity, all other 
capabilities pursued by the U.S. could be cut off very quickly. An analogy is owning power plants 
operating on natural gas but having to import natural gas. If we cannot produce the core supply needed 
for AI, it's hard for the U.S. to have AI self-sufficiency.  


3 Were access to TSMC’s Taiwan manufacturing capabilities cut off today, AI chip shipments would drop 
to zero. Even in the most optimistic timeline, it would take five years at minimum to build new U.S. 
manufacturing capacity to replace what Taiwan can build in 2025: 
Figure 1 - Losing TSMC production today would create at least a five-year gap in AI chip supply—a blow to 
U.S. competitiveness. Source: SemiAnalysis 
In the meantime, China would catch and surpass the Western world in advanced semiconductor 
manufacturing. While their capabilities today are ~5 years behind, the U.S. would lose advanced R&D 
along with Taiwanese manufacturing. There is no prospect of restoring leading-edge R&D capability from 
zero in a 5-year timespan. It is critical that the U.S. maintain leading-edge semiconductor R&D. The 
only U.S. entity capable of this today is Intel Foundry. Thus, it must be kept alive for economic and 
national security reasons. 
Our analysis considers the multiple parts needed to make a leading high end AI chip today. There are 
separate manufacturing capabilities needed to produce these chips: advanced logic for GPUs , DRAM 
for HBM (high bandwidth memory), and advanced packaging  to combine them.  
Advanced Logic 
Advanced logic refers to semiconductors fabricated at the smallest dimensions, often called the 
“leading edge.” In the context of GPUs or accelerators for AI, advanced logic refers to the brains of the 
operation. TSMC is the only viable producer of semiconductors for GPUs. Advanced logic manufacturing 
also has other applications including CPUs, switches, mobile semiconductors (system on chip, or SoC), 
and other logic. TSMC is based in Taiwan with only a few fabrication facilities in the US. This is a critical 
chokepoint for the United States.  


  
4 
 Advanced logic is a bottleneck as TSMC Arizona can only supply ~10% of demand for AI . This excludes 
semiconductor supply needed for phones, networking equipment, desktop computers and other critical 
capabilities. Advanced logic is the longest lead time to replacement, even with an emergency it would 
take 36 months minimum from project funding to first wafers out. Even with aggressive ramps into high 
volumes, it’s unlikely we could replace demand in 5+ years of supply response. For the entire duration of 
the supply ramp, the United States would be severely crippled in AI chips, not to mention networking, 
phones, and computers.  
This is the single greatest risk to America’s technological future and security. To de-risk this critical 
chokepoint, manufacturers must be incentivized to build new capacity in the U.S. There are two key 
issues that make the U.S. less desirable than Asian countries for new fab buildouts: cost and time-to-
market. Higher costs in the U.S. are often blamed on labor, but fabs are largely automated and operating 
expenses are largely driven by depreciation and raw materials, not personnel. Initial fab construction is 
more expensive in the United States, and we believe consists of up to 30-40% of the capital expense for 
building and outfitting a new facility. 
The main cost difference is artificial, driven by subsidies. Foreign countries heavily subsidize chip 
manufacturing such that building and operating fabs is significantly cheaper (this excludes possible 
CHIPS Act disbursements). China provides more than $15B in direct subsidies to its semiconductor 
manufacturing industry each year. Japan provides subsidies and other incentives totaling at least $13B 
annually through 2030, and Taiwan credits up to 25% of chip R&D expenses.  
Another cornerstone capacity is leading edge R&D, which must also be done in the U.S. The rapid pace of 
advanced logic development – characterized by Moore’s Law – means that leading-edge fabs are 
superseded within 1-2 years. R&D is required to keep the pace of building capacity at the frontier. TSMC 
fabs built in the U.S. are just a temporary stopgap as they’re still dependent on R&D in Taiwan. This is 
“leasing” the technology not owning it and creating true security.  
The best option is likely Intel. Intel foundry has execution issues, but it is the best-positioned American 
company with both leading-edge R&D and high-volume manufacturing. Having either R&D or capacity 
does not create security, but Intel foundry is the most likely candidate to achieve both. A further 
collaboration between industry, Intel Foundry, and the government is needed to support and position 
Intel to meet this critical American need.  
HBM (High Bandwidth Memory) 
High Bandwidth Memory (HBM) is a key distinguishing feature of modern AI accelerators like GPUs and 
fabricated separately. As models scale to larger sizes, HBM is the critical piece that allows for accessing, 
processing, and moving large amounts of data for model training or inference. This is a signature design 
constraint in large language models, and HBM is the second most critical subcomponent.   
The U.S. has no onshore HBM manufacturing. HBM requires DRAM (Dynamic Random Access Memory) 
and an advanced packaging facility to stack DRAM into a single HBM package. The CHIPS Act 


5 incentivized a Micron DRAM plant and SK Hynix packaging fab, but these cannot use each other’s 
products and, therefore, cannot produce HBM. Incentives need to focus on a single manufacturer 
onshoring both DRAM and HBM packaging. 
Micron is the best candidate  as it’s the only U.S.-based company capable of producing HBM today. 
R&D is done at its U.S. facilities, but all mass production is in Asia. Given that DRAM is commoditized, 
cost is the key consideration for effective incentives to bring manufacturing onshore. Incentivizing and 
encouraging high volume manufacturing will be important, but cost consideration is the biggest hurdle, 
given memory is an intensely cost competitive business. Micron is capable of this but this needs to 
happen with urgency.  
Advanced Packaging 
Advanced Packaging is the important glue that connects the advanced logic and HBM together into a 
single package1. Chip on Wafer on Substrate (CoWoS) is the key technology used today in packaging 
GPUs and accelerators by all leading players. CoWoS is a technology that requires specialized 
equipment to connect parts together with extreme precision and alignment for the total package to work 
together. TSMC is once again a leader in the space and has most of the capacity of this technology.  
There is no advanced packaging capacity and barely any R&D in the United States today. Packaging 
technology was historically considered a “back end” and not a differentiated process, but today we 
believe it should be considered as important as the logic and HBM needs. We understand an 
Amkor/TSMC joint facility with this capability is slated for construction in Arizona but won’t come online 
until mid-2026 at the earliest. This facility needs to be accelerated and expanded, and it’s possible that 
Intel Foundry could pursue packaging capacity and R&D domestically to create semiconductor security. 
Recommendations 
The recent efforts in the United States have begun the lengthy and expensive process of bringing back 
semiconductor production to the United States. It is not enough . For the United States to lead in the AI 
technology race, it must lead in semiconductor manufacturing. We have the technological potential – 
but the intention and focus are insufficient. The United States must make US semiconductor 
manufacturing a top priority. We recommend:  
Encourage more high-volume manufacturing from TSMC and more R&D in the United States.
Intel Foundry (or successor entity) must be the ultimate owner of high-volume manufacturing and
R&D. A split as well as an industry consortium to closely partner Intel with actual customers to
solve solutions is needed.
1 Dylan Patel et al., AI Capacity Constraints—CoWoS and HBM Supply Chain , SemiAnalysis (July 5, 2023), Available at 
https://semianalysis.com/2023/07/05/ai-capacity-constraints-cowos-and/ . (Accessed March 13, 2025). 


6 Accelerate and cheapen the time to build a fab in the U.S. through removing regulatory hurdles
such as permitting and planning. Even the fastest buildouts can take 736 days from capital to
production. Japan and Korea’s timelines are 584 days and 620 days respectively.2
Electricity is a key constraint. Federal and state governments can accelerate power timelines by
fast-tracking interconnect approvals, aiming to reduce the year timeline to months.
The United States needs a goal to reach for. We believe over 50% of US AI chip demand should
be domestically manufactured by 2028 . This means an ecosystem investment in advanced
logic, HBM, and advanced packaging.
In sum, TSMC’s U.S. fab meets only 10% of AI chip needs, Micron has no domestic HBM production, and 
advanced packaging capacity is almost entirely offshore. Without urgent interventions, these gaps will 
widen in the coming years. 
2)Energy Supply for Datacenters
AI models demand vast amounts of data and compute, thus requiring meaningful amounts of power for 
training and inferencing AI models. As users continue to adopt models, this means more power for AI 
accelerators, such as GPUs, to train and infer the models. Users are growing, and with improving 
technology means power is growing. 
The physical location of where the compute for AI happens is in the datacenter. The datacenter houses 
the servers and networking used to train and serve models to users. Because of the increasing demands 
from users and models, datacenters are struggling to keep up. This is partially because of the United 
States’ lagging energy infrastructure. The last decade of power usage in America has been stagnant, 
while businesses have become more efficient in creating economic value with the same amount of 
power.  
AI changes this. America’s aging and slow power grid risks slowing down the AI infrastructure buildout – 
benefitting rival countries like China with more flexibility and agility. Building the datacenters themselves 
is also subject to heavy permitting overhead.   
SemiAnalysis forecasts AI Energy demand to reach close to 150GW of Critical IT power by 2030. Hosting 50% of this in the US would imply a ~10% growth to the US peak electricity demand  (745GW) in five 
years – after 15 years with near zero electricity demand growth  in the United States. Additionally, we 
forecast that global GPU manufacturing capacity will significantly outpace datacenter construction. Our 
analysis indicates that by the end of this year, there will be approximately 40GWs more power demand 
from chips than worldwide datacenter projects. The key question is how much of those 40GW will be 
2 John VerWey, No Permits, No Fabs: The Importance of Regulatory Permitting for Semiconductor Manufacturing , Ctr. for Sec. 
& Emerging Tech. (Oct. 2021), Available at: https://cset.georgetown.edu/wp-content/uploads/CSET-No-Permits-No-Fabs.pdf . 
(Accessed Mar. 11, 2025) 


  
7 
 hosted in the US or in other nations. If power generation does not increase, the United States will fall 
behind.  
 
Figure 2 -Datacenter Critical IT Power.  Source: SemiAnalysis 
This is critical to winning the future of AI. We propose a simple framework to accelerate AI power 
adoption in the United States. We must accelerate grid interconnection , improve on-site power 
generation , and increase information for datacenter  participants.  
Accelerate the Grid Interconnection Process 
Our conservative US datacenter growth scenario still dwarfs the total power generation to be added to 
the US power grid. We estimate a gap north of 50GW by 2028 . This is a result of a timing mismatch: while 
AI datacenters prioritize time-to-market, adding power generation is anything but quick – wait times on 
average are over five years in the “project queue” before it can deliver power and serve users, as 
indicated by a Department of Energy report funded under contract DE-AC02-05CH112313. 
In some areas in the country, underutilized power assets enable datacenters to be served without 
building new infrastructure. But they also face a “load interconnection” process and enter a queue of 
projects – which we estimate at north of 350GW currently in the US. AI datacenter developers are frantically searching for power, and transmission utilities are overwhelmed.  
Viable solutions are not being pursued today. Interconnection can happen faster by incentivizing utilities 
to explore innovative solutions like demand-response programs via batteries or backup generators, 
 
3 Joseph Rand et al., Queued Up: Characteristics of Power Plants Seeking Transmission Interconnection As of the End of 2023 , 
Lawrence Berkeley Nat'l Lab (Apr. 2024), Available at:  https://emp.lbl.gov/sites/default/files/2024-
04/Queued%20Up%202024%20Edition_1.pdf . (Accessed Mar. 6, 2025) 


8 increasing utilization rates of existing transmission assets, or building new transmission assets. All of 
these would increase utilization of the current energy infrastructure.  
The Department of Energy and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission can implement solutions that 
have already been proposed, such as research from the Nicholas Institute that demonstrates how the 
grid could support significantly more load through minimal curtailment4. 
Accelerate On-site Power Generation 
Leading AI-focused corporations like xAI have shifted to on-site power generation to bypass the energy 
bottleneck. This significantly lowers the constraint on nationwide transmission and generation assets 
and accelerates time-to-market for AI datacenters. 
Unfortunately, challenges are slowing down the adoption of such systems: 
Heavy environmental permitting constraints slow down natural gas generation onsite.
Developers prefer a grid connection to provide backup power - and ISOs and RTOs struggle to
account for such configurations, slowing down the approval process.
Most utilities do not have experience in large load customers with on-site power generation but a grid 
connection for backup power. In some areas, the regulatory framework doesn’t allow such 
arrangements. This leads to a slowdown in the development of large datacenters with on-site power 
generation. 
The Executive Branch should consider a national framework for utilities to evaluate large loads with on-
site power generation. The framework should provide multiple options to serve a broad range of target 
datacenter uptime, for example: 
Electrical grid is a secondary flexible power, but not a backup for a primary source, such as the
AEP Ohio arrangement with natural gas fuel cells acting as primary power.
Electrical Grid as backup power.
An electrical grid is used as backup power under certain conditions, for example, in combination
with a demand response program where the data center customer relies on its backup diesel
generators.
Increase Datacenter Data Transparency to Encourage Capital Market Participation 
Energy market participants suffer from the lack of high-quality historical data publicly accessible on 
datacenter electricity consumption. Datacenter load is only a subcategory of EIA’s “commercial load,” 
4 Tyler H. Norris et al., Rethinking Load Growth: Regulatory Approaches to Electrification and Demand Growth , Nicholas Inst. 
for Energy, Env't & Sustainability, Duke Univ. (Feb. 2024), Available at: 
https://nicholasinstitute.duke.edu/publications/rethinking-load-growth . (Accessed March 10, 2025).  


  
9 
 which is reported monthly. This will be one of the primary consumption categories in the future and 
should be tracked and understood by the EIA as its own distinct category.  
Information creates increased capital participation which leads to lower risk premiums and increased 
liquidity. Without proper information capital is less willing to participate in the formation of power 
generation.  
Recommendations 
Grid interconnection is a meaningful bottleneck for private capital to be deployed in the United States. 
Our recommendations move to alleviate these issues. 
 Accelerate Grid Interconnection:  Incentivize innovative utility measures (like demand-response 
and battery storage) to cut down the current 5-year wait time and bridge the power gap. 
 Expand On-Site Generation:  Streamline permitting and develop a national framework to enable 
grid-connected, large-scale on-site power systems. 
 Enhance Data Transparency:  Establish a dedicated EIA category for datacenter energy use to 
attract capital and reduce investment risk. 
 
3) Expansion and Adjustment of Existing Controls 
It is critical that the United States maintains its leadership and does not export its competitive 
advantages in AI as the country that created and leads in AI technology; exporting our competitive 
advantage in this critical technology is helpful to other adversarial nation-states. We believe the current 
export controls are a step in the correct direction, but have specific recommendations for chips, 
networking, and semiconductor capital equipment.  
AI Chip Exports and Networking 
When evaluating an accelerator or GPU, there are three considerations: Computational power  
(measured in Floating Point Operations Per Second, or FLOP/s), Memory Bandwidth  (measured in TB/s), 
and interconnect bandwidth  (measured in GB/s or Gbit/s). Previous export controls have focused on 
computational power, but this has allowed the optimization of the other two methods of performance. 
Tens of thousands of Nvidia H20 GPU are purchased legally in China, which can outperformance the 
controlled H100 GPU on some text generation tasks. This is because the initial rules didn’t encapsulate 
holistic performance.  


  
10 
  
Figure 3 - Controlled and available GPUs under current and previous controls. Source: SemiAnalysis 
A single GPU does not exist alone but is part of a cluster of tens of thousands of chips. A slower worker 
that is more in sync with its collective group can perform just as well as a faster worker that is out of 
sync. This compares compute (single worker speed) to interconnect (synchronization of GPUs). Two 
standard technologies connect chips in the “scale up” and “scale out” domains. NVLink is an example of 
a “scale up” network and Infiniband or Ethernet is an example of a “scale out” network. “Scale up” 
domains focus on smaller “squads” of chips while “scale out” focuses on a “corps” of chips.  
Computational power matters, but a high interconnect bandwidth allows a faster group of chips in 
aggregate. In other words, even if a chip's specific computational performance is limited, interconnect 
and memory bandwidths can aggregate many thousands of chips together in a powerful cohesive unit. 
This renders the original intention of export controls inert.  
A more holistic approach to controlling chip exports is imperative. The correct framework considers the 
entire cluster of chips rather than on an on-chip basis. Export controls should focus on achieving the end 
goal and not block single technology attributes that can be engineered around. A unified cluster-level 
framework is a more comprehensive framework that allows for fewer loopholes in the longer term and for 
the US to maintain leads across more dimensions than just chips with more computational 
performance.  
In addition to the existing restrictions from the Department of Commerce’s January 2025 Interim Final 
Rule on the Framework for Artificial Intelligence Diffusion (the “Diffusion Rule”), specifically 3A090A.2 
and 3A090A.3, we think:  
 Memory bandwidth is limited at 4 TB/s per chip  
 Total Input/Output (IO) bandwidth is limited at: 9 Tbps bidirectional per chip, including the 
combined scale up, scale out, and Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCIe).  
 


11 Any chip that exceeds any limit on these three axes is automatically controlled. Note that this will also 
include other networking chips that are generally included with the server. As mentioned, this will limit 
the capability of using more chips and networking switches, which enable better performance as they 
scale up.  
This would immediately include controls on the Nvidia H20 as a starting point . We think the H20 
should be controlled moving forward. Although it has less computational power than an H100, it has 
excellent text generation capabilities thanks to its high interconnect bandwidth. Text generation has 
become an essential part of the new paradigm of “reasoning” where the model thinks through a problem 
before answering.  
Wafer Fabrication Equipment (WFE) or Semicap Tools 
Export controls must be stricter further up the semiconductor supply chain. Without restrictions on chip 
manufacturing equipment and its components, controls on chips themselves are useless—China can 
simply produce its own advanced chips.  
Recent policy has slowed the progress of Chinese chipmakers, starting with EUV restrictions under the 
first Trump administration and continuing with annual BIS rule updates circa 2022. However, 
improvements are needed as there are multiple loopholes or workarounds for chip production to 
continue.  
We discussed the need for controls on subsystems  for semiconductor manufacturing equipment in a 
report on Chinese sanctions evasions5: 
“For example, current controls prohibit exports of EUV scanners into China. Yet they do not 
restrict EUV optics from Zeiss. This makes no sense – ASML and any chipmaker using EUV can tell 
you that projection optics are the #1 critical component. While it is not practical to control every 
nut and bolt, certain items obviously must be. Where to draw the line? There are fewer than 100 
critical components from specific suppliers that should be restricted, including EUV projection 
optics, precision mask stages, and radio frequency plasma generators.” 
If a Semicap tool is restricted, its key subsystems must also be restricted . 
Key Semicap tool categories and capabilities must be restricted. There are relatively few categories – 
closer to 10 than 100 – that must be controlled, not regulated with an arbitrary specification for where 
“advanced” applications and capabilities begin. Examples include atomic layer deposition (ALD), high 
aspect ratio etch, and isotropic etch. All are critical for current and future advanced chips, but only tools 
meeting a certain spec are regulated. This approach makes evasion simple: purchase a tool that is barely 5 Dylan Patel et. al, Fab Whack-A-Mole—Chinese Companies Evading Semiconductor Equipment Export Controls , 
SemiAnalysis (Oct. 28, 2024), Available at: https://semianalysis.com/2024/10/28/fab-whack-a-mole-chinese-companies/ . 
(Accessed March 12, 2025) 


  
12 
 under the allowed spec and modify, retrofit, or push the capabilities of a tool in a way that would be 
restricted. Instead, the entire category of the tool should be controlled.  
Making a complex semiconductor takes thousands of steps, and many of the steps can be replaced or 
substituted with another category of tools. If we remove one piece, there is often a workaround that can 
be engineered. Instead, we should remove entire categories of solutions.    
Recommendations:  
 Work with BIS to amend more holistic export controls, allowing for fewer loopholes to be available 
for scale-up and scale-out networking. 
 Work with BIS to ensure that subsystems of critical machinery are controlled, not just the 
assembled machine, allowing controls to achieve their targeted goal better.  
 Work with BIS to place broader controls on important categories in semiconductor 
manufacturing, avoiding possibilities of retrofitting or adjusting permitted tools to operate on 
controlled levels of performance.  
4) Enforcement 
Export controls are only as effective as their enforcement mechanisms. Due to the lack of enforcement, 
continuous evasion efforts mean that many wafer-fabricated equipment still reaches Chinese fabs. This 
must change for controls to be effective and impactful.  
The CCP has made domestic chip manufacturing a national priority, yet the BIS is expected to enforce 
restrictions on them with barely more than 100 agents spread across the entire export controls regime 
(from chips to automotive to agricultural). This implies that enforcement falls on very few number of 
people to monitor and enforce billions of dollars in purchases. Controls are only as effective as their 
enforcement and China has established several lines of smuggling each several hundred million dollars 
in value.  
We have noted multiple ways that export controls get skirted in the past6. This sort of observation and 
enforcement should happen before it reaches the scale of billions of dollars in purchases. Additionally, 
we believe that meaningful amounts of chips are smuggled into China every year, and enforcement has 
been lackluster. We outline recommendations that aim to improve enforcement across the board.   
Recommendations:  
 Provide the BIS with more staffing and resources that it can identify, track, and shut down existing 
or new lines of smuggling. 
1. This should include highly skilled staff in the semiconductor industry.  
2. Utilize streamlined federal hiring programs to accelerate their involvement.  
 6 Dylan Patel et. al, Fab Whack-A-Mole—Chinese Companies Evading Semiconductor Equipment Export Controls , 
SemiAnalysis (Oct. 28, 2024), Available at: https://semianalysis.com/2024/10/28/fab-whack-a-mole-chinese-companies/ . 
(Accessed March 12, 2025) 


  
13 
  Coordinate with BIS to ensure export controls are updated on a monthly cadence to close 
loopholes quickly, which incurs costs while limiting the advantages gained. 
 The Diffusion Rule introduced a 1700 H100 no-license required threshold for orders in Tier 2 
countries. While it is essential to ensure that businesses who need only a small number of GPUs 
to operate procure them with ease, there has been little clarity around managing or enforcing this 
ruling. Further clarifying details is key to enforcement, working toward efficiently servicing 
businesses while denying shell companies that pose a smuggling risk.  
 Japan and the Netherlands are exempt from Foreign Direct Product Rulings (FDPR) contingent on 
providing matching controls. However, these matching controls often arrive at a significant lag, 
allowing suppliers to sell to China. This creates stockpiles of US restricted tools, nullifying the 
impact of the controls. The US should move to a more unilateral approach to timing controls.  
 Task Federal agencies focused on intelligence to work with critical semiconductor companies on 
building robust internal screening systems to avoid sales to controlled actors through shell 
corporations. 
Conclusion 
The future of AI in America is likely the single most important technological inflection this decade and the 
next. Controlling and effectively deploying this critical technology will have profound and lasting 
consequences for America's economic competitiveness and national security. 
The cost of falling behind in the AI race is severe - the United States would lose its edge in virtually all 
domains of knowledge work, with cascading effects across military, economic, and technological 
spheres. To prevent this outcome, we recommend the U.S. implement an integrated strategy focusing on 
our four key recommendations: establishing robust U.S.-based semiconductor manufacturing, resolving 
power generation bottlenecks, implementing comprehensive export controls, and enforcing these 
controls vigorously.   
These recommendations form a cohesive framework that is both actionable and achievable. The cost of 
losing the race is too great to not take seriously, and we urge the federal government to continue to take 
it seriously and adopt these recommendations as foundational elements of the AI Action Plan.  
SemiAnalysis believes a strong American AI industry is critical for the future and are always open for 
continued dialogue. We can be reached at  
 
 
 
About SemiAnalysis: SemiAnalysis is the best-of-breed Semiconductor and AI Research boutique. Our 
coverage spans the entire supply chain, from semiconductor fabrication essentials to cutting-edge AI 
models, software, and infrastructure.  


