Date of Submission: March 15, 2025  
Agency: Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National 
Coordination Office (NCO) on Behalf of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP)  
Re: Request for Information (RFI) on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
Introduction  
SEMI member companies are grateful to  OSTP for its leadership and  for maintaining a productive 
dialogue with industry. SEMI members welcome the opportunity to provide the following comments in 
response to the RFI on the development of an AI Action Plan, per Executive Order 14179.  
Founded in 1970, SEMI is the leading global industry association dedicated to advancing the electronics 
manufacturing supply chain. With more than 3,000 members worldwide —including more than 650 U.S.-
headquartered companies —SEMI represents a broad spectrum of the semiconductor industry, including 
chip designers, equipment manufacturers, materials suppliers, and subcomponent producers. While 
SEMI’s membership includes large multinational corporati ons, more than 85 percent of its members are 
small and medium -sized enterprises (SMEs). Collectively, these companies form the backbone of the $2 
trillion global electronics industry, which supports greater than 350,000 high -skill, high -wage jobs in the 
United States.  
Semiconductors  are fundamental  to modern technology, found in everything from smartphones and 
computers to medical devices and defense systems.  Many of these devices and services rely on chip s 
that are specifically designed and manufactured to enable increasingly sophisticated AI capabilities. The 
United States currently possesses market and technological leadership in the design , manufacturing  
equipment, and materials that enable AI chip production , but the rise of global competitors and the 
offshoring of critical manufacturing processes have led to an erosion of U.S. preeminence in 
semiconductors and posed challenges to the stability of the U.S. semiconductor supply chain. As a 
consequence of this shift, t he U.S. share of global semiconductor manufacturing has fallen  from 37% in 
1990 to just 12% in 202 2. 
While the United States remains the global leader in  the design and development of  AI chips in 
particular , recent events have highlighted the fact that this primacy is not guaranteed . This includes the 
unexpected success that overseas competitors have had in developing functionally equivalent but 
significantly less expensive AI systems despite restrictive export controls on advanced U.S. chip 
technology. As such, SEMI members urge  the Administration  to craft an  AI Action Plan that makes  a 
strong commitment to domestic semiconductor production  through funding and tax incentives , 
innovation through publicly and privately funded research and development (R&D),  a regulatory regim e 


 
2 
 that preserves access to critical chemicals  and materials, the implementation of trade policies that allow 
for robust and fair competition in a global marketplace , and a domestic workforce development 
enterprise that helps ensure the availability of top -level talent.  
 
To ensure that the United States maintains its competitive edge in AI, SEMI members make the following 
recommendations, which will be expanded upon in this document:  
• CHIPS Implementation – Continue investing in the reshoring of semiconductor manufacturing 
through the CHIPS Program  and the fielding of R&D initiatives relevant to AI.  
• Trade and Tariff  Policy  – Maintain market access for semiconductor equipment manufacturers 
by leveraging strategic trade policies that promote U.S. technological leadership, enable fair 
competition, and avoid blanket measures that could undermine key industries.   
• Export Controls – Support balanced export controls that protect national security while 
maintaining global competitiveness  as nations vie for AI supremacy.  
• Tax Policy Expand tax incentives to strengthen domestic semiconductor manufacturing.  
• Workforce Development – Address workforce shortages through STEM education funding and 
targeted adjustments to the high -skilled immigration  system . 
• Environmental and Energy Considerations – Advocat e for the enablement of environmentally 
efficient technologies that strengthens global competitiveness by driving innovation and 
supporting initiatives that aim to reduce excessive regulatory burdens.  
 
 
CHIPS Act Implementation  
 
As originally envisioned in the  first Trump Administration to onshore critical semiconductor 
manufacturing capacity to protect national security and promote supply chain resiliency in the United 
States, the Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce Semiconductors (CHIPS) for America Act and the CHIPS 
and Science Act have collectively  sought to level  the international  playing field by incentivizing domestic  
production of critical chips and enabling U.S. leadership in R&D and advanced packaging. This bipartisan 
effort has yielded the largest U.S. semiconductor expansion in decades and, when  fully,  effectively , and 
decisively administered, will continue to build upon U.S. leadership in semiconductor technology.  These 
programs are particularly important for the nation’s efforts to maintain global AI leadership. Specifically,  
bolstering domestic manufacturing of advanced  AI chips  will provide the United States with more secure 
access to a commodity that is growing  in necessity as AI -enabled devices and systems increasingly 
pervade and enable modern life.  
 
R&D is also foundational to the semiconductor  industry’s ability to design, develop, and manufacture the 
most advanced semiconductors as well as to field the high -skilled workforce that can sustain it in the 
long -term.  The CHIPS for America Act recognized this reality when it authorized the establishment of 
several targeted R&D activities aimed at ensuring that the United States remains the global epicenter in 
developing new semiconductor technologies. These include the following programs, each of which are 
directly relevant to advancing AI leadership:  
 
• National Semiconductor Technology Center (NSTC) – The NSTC is a public -private partnership 
that aims to accelerate innovation in semiconductors and their manufacturing process. 
Specifically, NSTC -led activities will focus on addressing challenges in areas that currently impede 
the development of more capable AI systems, including processing power and energy efficiency. 


3 The NSTC is a unique entity in the United States, as there is no equivalent organization serving as 
a central hub for fostering multi -sector collaboration across the entire semiconductor ecosystem. 
•National Advanced Packaging and Manufacturing Program (NAPMP) – The NAPMP is intended to
expand domestic capacity in advanced packaging, a segment of the semiconductor
manufacturing process for which the U.S. share is only three percent globally. Beyond th e
economic benefit of capturing a greater percentage of this market, bolstering domestic
semiconductor packaging is critical to supply chain resilience.  This is especially important given
the increasing salience and pervasiveness of AI chips.
•CHIPS Manufacturing USA Institute – The CHIPS Manufacturing USA Institute , which will join a
network of existing institutes, will focus on addressing challenges in semiconductor
manufacturing using digital twins. These digital twins are computer models that can replace the
need for physical objects, thereby reducing the cost of experimentation in advanced
manufacturing. Digital twins can be a ugmented with AI to further optimize the semiconductor
manufacturing process.
•Metrology R&D – The CHIPS Metrology R&D program will support measurement science for the
development of new materials, packaging, and production methods for semiconductors.  The
increasingly small feature size of advanced AI chips necessitates ultra -precise measurement and
inspection capabilities to ensure the ir reliability.
To maximize the impact of the CHIPS for America Act and CHIPS and Science Act , administering the direct 
company incentives program and implementing the R&D initiatives  is essential , while eliminating 
burdensome non -statutory provisions. A stable, predictable, and efficient distributi on system  without 
significant delay will empower semiconductor companies to continue to invest confidently in new U.S. 
manufacturing and R&D facilities, driving long -term innovation and competitiveness , including many 
smaller -scale suppliers.  
Key Policy Concerns : 
1.Overly Burdensome Regulat ory Requirements  – Complex and burdensome application
processes , extensive environmental reviews, and regulatory hurdles  have reportedly discouraged
some small and medium -sized companies with new and innovative technologies from applying
and may have slowed the timeline for project approvals.
2.Potential Rescoping of Implementation  – The current review of the  CHIPS Program Office  (CPO)
by the new Administration allows for clarification of  funding priorities , particularly in ongoing
and future R&D initiatives, ensuring sustained federal support for planned semiconductor
investments. Additionally, identifying creative solutions to encourage partnerships to strengthen
workforce development programs will further enhance job growth and talent retention in the
semiconductor industry.
3.Encouraging Long -Term Semiconductor Roadmapping  – Developing an industry -led strategy that
leverages federal tools to foster a stable, long -term investment climate will be an enabler in
encouraging semiconductor companies to expand their manufacturing and R&D footprint in the
United States. A coordinated and comprehensive approach —one that prioritizes pro -business


 
4 
 and pro -innovation policies —will secure  U.S. technological leadership, strengthe  supply chain 
resilience, and maximiz e returns for the American taxpayer.  
 
Recommended Policy Actions : 
 
• Streamline any remaining CHIPS  funding application processes to accelerate approvals and lower 
the barrier of entry for small and medium enterprises.  
• Ensure the CHIPS Program  maintains its full intended scope , as authorized in statute , without 
additional burdensome regulation or funding reductions.  
• Create a long -term semiconductor investment roadmap to encourage further investment beyond 
the CHIPS Program.  
 
 
Trade & Tariff Policy  
 
The complexities of the semiconductor industry supply chain require U.S. companies to rely on highly 
specialized materials, equipment, and components sourced from multiple countries. Strategically 
deployed and comprehensively assessed trade actions ensure that U.S. businesses maintain market 
access and remain globally competitive. Through fair and reciprocal trade practices, the U.S. can avoid 
unintended cost increases, supply chain disruptions, and ultimately any risks to U.S. competitiveness in 
the global  marketplace.  
 
Coordinating trade policies with our allies prevents retaliatory tariffs for industries critical for national 
security, such as the semiconductor industry , and keep costs competitive for consumers and industries, 
all while fostering a more resilient domestic manufacturing ecosystem. As demand for emerging 
technologies grows, empowering U.S. semiconductor companies to compete on a level playing field will 
help  maintain U.S. innovation prowess for everything from consumer electronics to automotive and 
defense applications. A resilient, secure , and open global supply chain for the semiconductor industry 
both benefits U.S. economic interests and national security.  
 
Recommended Policy Actions : 
 
• Encourage the adoption of clear and targeted trade policies that encourage continued market 
access for U.S. companies . 
• Support the negotiation of exemptions for industries critical for maintaining national security 
objectives with partner countries . 
• Promote coordinated and targeted efforts to encourage the reshoring of domestic 
manufacturing . 
 
 
Export Controls  
 
Export controls are an essential tool to protect sensitive U.S. semiconductor technologies , including 
advanced AI chips,  from adversarial nations while ensuring America maintains its technological edge. To 
be effective, controls should be targeted and narrowly tailored  to an identi fied national security risk , 
closing loopholes that enable the safe transfer of technology while avoiding overly broad and unilateral 
measures that could cede market share to non -U.S. competitors by imposing disproportionate 


5 restrictions to American companies. A coordinated approach —guided by industry insights and aligned 
with key allies —will strengthen enforcement, promote compliance, and protect U.S. innovation without 
undermining global competitiveness.  
Key Policy Concerns : 
1.Loss of Market Access for U.S. Companies  – Trade policies  informed by comprehensive analyses
and industry participation will ensure tha t U.S. firms remain competitive  in a global marke tplace .
2.Regulatory Complexity and Compliance Burdens  – Recent export control actions, including
expansion of the Foreign Direct Product Rule (FDPR),  have increased regulatory costs and
uncertainty for semiconductor companies.  Complexity of  recent rules and r apid regulatory
changes —without sufficient  stakeholder  input —create confusion , undermine companies’ ability
to comply with export control rules,  and limit the ability of businesses to plan long -term.
3.Coordination with Like-minded Allies – Plurilateral agreements on export controls with key allies
will create a more cohesive regulatory framework, strengthening both national security and U.S.
competitiveness. Coordinated policies help U.S. firms compete on a level playing field with
competing  firms from allied nations while supporting a resilient and interconnected global
supply chain.
Recommended Policy Actions  
•Refine export control rules  to focus only on truly sensitive semiconductor technologies.
•Coordinate export control policies with allied nations  and avoid unilateral export controls to
ensure  the competitiveness of  U.S. compan ies abroad.
•Increase transparency in export control decision -making to minimize uncertainty for
semiconductor companies across the supply chain.
Tax Policy and Investment Incentives  
With most key tax provisions from the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act  set to expire at the end of the year and 
the CHIPS and Science Act  Investment Tax Credit only applying to investments made before January 1, 
2027, 2025 is expected to bring a high -stakes tax debate on Capitol Hill, shaping the future of U.S. 
semiconductor investment and broader economic policy. The high cost of semicondu ctor manufacturing 
in the U.S. is a significant challenge and a key driver behind  the offshoring of critical aspect s of 
semiconductor manufacturing.  
Semiconductor infrastructure —especially the manufacturing facilities needed for producing the most 
advanced AI chips —require s billions of dollars in upfront investment, and tax incentives are essential to 
offset these costs. A competitive tax environment encourages semiconductor companies to invest in the 
United States, strengthening domestic manufacturing and innovation while m aintaining global 
leadership against lower -cost regions.  Increasing federal R&D tax incentives will also allow 
semiconductor firms to invest more in AI chips, quantum computing, and advanced chip architectures.  
Key Benefits of Tax Incentives : 


 
6 
  
1. Encouraging Domestic Semiconductor Manufacturing  
a. U.S. construction costs are significantly higher than in Asia, due to higher labor , 
acquisition,  and operational expenses.  
b. Investment tax credits (ITC s) help reduce  costs, making the United States  a more 
attractive location for semiconductor expansion.  
 
2. Strengthening R&D and Innovation  
a. Semiconductor companies invest over 15% to 20% of their annual revenue in R&D.   
b. R&D tax credits drive technological advancements by allowing companies to reinvest 
savings into next -generation chip development.  
 
3. Expanding the Semiconductor Supply Chain  
a. Current tax incentives primarily support semiconductor fabs, but upstream suppliers also 
need incentives to strengthen the entire supply chain.  
b. Expanding tax credits to include wafer production, chemical suppliers, and packaging will 
enhance the U.S. semiconductor ecosystem.  
 
Recommended Policy Actions : 
 
• Extend tax credits beyond fab construction to include semiconductor material suppliers and 
packaging facilities.  
• Make CHIPS and Science Act  tax credits permanent to provide long -term investment stability . 
• Ensure tax incentives remain stable to encourage continued semiconductor investment.  
• Strengthen R&D tax policies to promote next -generation semiconductor technology  
development . 
 
 
Workforce Development & Immigration  
 
One of the biggest headwinds facing  U.S. semiconductor expansion is the shortage of skilled workers. 
Without a robust workforce, the semiconductor ecosystem  currently being developed  in the United 
States will struggle to find enough talent.  This is especially true for the AI sector, where intensifying 
international competition has spurred a global scramble for talent.  
 
Key Workforce Challenges : 
 
1. Shortage of Skilled Workers  – By 2030, the U.S. semiconductor industry will face a shortfall of 
over 300,000 engineers and technicians. Many semiconductor jobs require specialized expertise, 
but the U nited States  lacks a national semiconductor workforce training strategy.  
 
2. Immigration Barriers Restrict Talent Access  – The H -1B visa program is capped at 85,000 visas 
annually, limiting the ability of semiconductor firms to hire top global talent as they compete 
against other industry for these specialized visas.  Many U.S. semiconductor graduate students 
are foreign -born, yet immigration policies make it difficult for them to stay in the United States  
after graduation , benefitting  the pools of talent in competing economies . 
 


7 3.Lack of STEM Education & Apprenticeship Programs  – Federal investment in semiconductor -
specific STEM education remains low.  Community colleges and technical schools play a key role
in training semiconductor technicians but need greater funding and industry partnerships.
Recommended Policy Actions : 
•Establish a national semiconductor workforce pipeline to align higher education, training, and
industry needs , including through support of the National Network for Microelectronics
Education authorized by the CHIPS and Science Act .
•Extend the H -1B grace period for finding a new employment sponsor from 60 days to 180 days to
account for historical cyclicality in advanced manufacturing .
•Expand apprenticeship programs in semiconductor manufacturing and engineering.
•Ensure that CHIPS Act funding continues to include workforce development support.
AI Resource Utilization  
Fostering both a supportive regulatory environment and  targeted  R&D are essential to advancing 
resource -efficient technologies that enhance the global competitiveness of the U.S. semiconductor 
industry. This is especially important in AI, as the Department of Energy  (DOE)  has estimated that energy 
consumption from data centers —the infrastructure underpinning AI systems —tripled over the last 
decade and may triple again by 2028 .1 Additionally, the power consumption of semiconductor devices  
has been increasing over the last decade,  leading to a dynamic wherein energy infrastructure is not 
keeping up with the demands of our growing reliance on AI. Finally, semiconductor manufacturing  itself  
is also resource -intensive, requiring significant amounts of both energy and water.  
As such, i ndustry -led innovations in energy -efficient fabs, water recycling systems, and emissions 
reduction technologies are key to sustainable growth across the world. Targeted policies and 
investments in next -generation solutions will enable U.S. companies to account for energy needs  while 
maintaining global competitiveness.  
Recommended Policy Actions:  
•Develop industry -led environmental standards for water recycling and emissions reduction.
•Expanding energy diversification to support and enhance the already energy intensive
semiconductor manufacturing process.
•Leverage DOE R&D activities  authorized under the Micro Act2 to produce transformational
outcomes  in energy efficiency  that will contribute to the more downstream research efforts of
the NSTC and other CHIPS R&D programs.
1 https://eta -publications.lbl.gov/sites/default/files/2024 -12/lbnl -2024 -united -states -data -center -energy -usage -
report.pdf   
2 https://www.energy.gov/science/articles/department -energy -announces -179-million -microelectronics -science -
research -centers   


8 •Build on the above R&D efforts by launching an NSTC  technical center3 focused on sustainable
semiconductor manufacturing .4
PFAS Regulations and Associated R&D  
Creating semiconductors is a complex process, involving thousands of intricate steps. State -of-the-art 
technology nodes require over 2,000 processing steps, utilizing specialized equipment and materials, all 
of which collectively cost billions of dollars. Due to their extremely small feature size, chips are highly 
sensitive to any source of contamination and require atomic precision in manufacturing.  These devices 
are only becoming more complex , and their feature sizes smaller, as demand for more powerful A I 
capabilities increases.  
Various types of PFAS are essential to the semiconductor manufacturing process because they have low 
surface tension, high heat and chemical resistance, high thermal stability, radiation stability, favorable 
electrical characteristics, compatibility with o ther chemicals, purity, and other properties that enable 
them to fulfill the unique demands of semiconductor manufacturing. Fluoropolymers, fluorochemicals, 
and fluorinated gases are all used by  the semiconductor  industry  to meet many needs within the 
manu facturing process . 
Concerns about the pervasiveness of PFAS and their potential public health impacts have prompted 
policymakers at the federal and state levels  to design  broad regulations that often have unanticipated 
consequences. While the industry supports responsible PFAS management, overly broad regulations 
could limit access to essential materials without viable alternatives, potentially hindering innovation. 
SEMI advocates for balanced policies that allow continued PFAS use in  critical applications while 
promoting res earch into next -generation materials and advanced manufacturing processes. Encouraging 
innovation through risk-based  regulation and targeted R&D will strengthen the industry’s ability to 
develop cutting -edge technologies that sustain semiconductor industry growth on the global stage.  
Recommended Policy Actions : 
•Support PFAS policies  that empower authorities to implement risk -based analysis and emission
controls while ensuring access to chemicals that are vitally important to the production of
semiconductors.
•Leverage CHIPS R&D activities, such as  the CARISSMA5, which aims to utilize AI to identify viable
alternatives to PFAS and other chemicals currently used in semiconductor manufacturing,  and
PRISM6, which is intended to  accelerat e progress on environmental controls.
3 According to the NSTC strategic vision  issued by the C PO, NSTC technical centers are designed to provide “ end-to-
end fabrication to enable small prototyping and pilot runs, experimentation with and testing of new materials and 
equipment, and other research -related activities .” 
4 The NSTC Strategic Plan  developed by CPO and Natcast, the NSTC operator, notes that “[s ustainability ] in 
semiconductor chip manufacturing is a broad topic including energy efficiency of the fab, water use, and emissions 
(greenhouse gases and toxic substances). ” 
5 https://www.nist.gov/chips/r%2526d -funding -opportunities/notice -funding -opportunity -carissma   
6 https://natcast.org/research -and-development/prism   


 
9 
 Conclusion  
 
The U nited States  has the resources, talent, and technological prowess  to maintain global semiconductor 
supremacy, and therefore, leadership in AI.  In service of this goal, SEMI recommends that the 
Administration’s AI Action Plan communicate  a bold , long -term, and unwavering commitment to the 
policy goals outlined in this RFI response. Specifically:  
• Policymakers must ensure that implementation of the CHIPS Program continues and that it 
above all else prioritizes domestic manufacturing of advanced semiconductors, legacy 
semiconductors, and the associated supplier ecosystem.  
• The Federal Government must work with i ndustry to support  R&D, workforce development, and 
advanced semiconductor manufacturing capabilities.  
• The U nited States  must work closely with allies to ensure a stable, secure, and globally 
competitive semiconductor supply chain.  
 
SEMI stands ready to work with the Administration  to ensure that the U.S. semiconductor industry  and 
the AI leadership it enables  remain strong, competitive, and future -focused.  


