ServiceN ow 
www.servicenow.com2225 Lawson Lane  
Santa Clara, CA 95054  Tel 
Fax 
AI Action Plan  
ATTN: Faisal D’Souza, NCO  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  Friday, March 14 , 202 5 
ServiceNow's Response to the Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
ServiceNow commends the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) and 
the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National 
Coordination Office (NCO) for seeking public input on the development of an Artificia l 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan, and is grateful for this opportunity to respond.  
ServiceNow  the AI platform for business and government transformation. The AI -first ServiceNow 
Platform acts as a unifier  on top of legacy systems and outdated tech stacks to simplify 
complexity and activate workflows across disparate departments. Spanning two decades and 
trillions of workflow executions, ServiceNow’s scaled capabilities have a proven track record of 
driving  cost efficiencies and increasing productivity for large public and private sector 
organizations. As an American company with over 26,0 00 employees globally, ServiceNow 
supports over 85% of Fortune 500 companies and hundreds of federal, state, and local 
government agencies . 
ServiceNow is committed to providing the American workforce with in -demand job skills. We 
have a goal of educating 3 million learners on our platform globally by 2027. By offering 600 free 
courses and 18 job -related certification paths, we allow individual s to work at their own pace. 
Already, more than 1 million individuals have completed 6.7 million courses, paths, in -person, 
and virtual instructor events globally since 2022. We’ve also provided training to hundreds of 
transitioning service members through  participation in the DOD SkillBridge program.  
As a leading American AI enterprise workflow company, ServiceNow recognizes the 
transformative potential of AI in enhancing government efficiency, economic growth, and 
national security. We appreciate the opportunity to contribute our perspective to the 
Administration on priority policy actions to sustain and enhance America's AI leadership, and 
respectfully submit the following recommendations for consideration.  
1. Strengthening Existing Risk Management Frameworks
Consistent with Executive Order 13960 issued during the first Trump Administration, which 
supported voluntary consensus standards, rather than create new, burdensome requirements, 
the Administration can task the National Institute of Standards and Technolo gy (NIST) to build 
upon the NIST Risk Management Framework (RMF), which is voluntary and solutions oriented. 
Additions to the RMF can include clear standards for testing, evaluation, security, and 
documentation. Promulgating these voluntary —rather than com pulsory —standards will 
accelerate AI innovation, adoption, and collaboration, remove uncertainty and friction that 
currently holds the market back, and promote America’s global leadership by providing a 
workable, American -led alternative to harsh regulator y regimes.  


This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be 
reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  2.Supporting Open -Source Solutions
Open -source software fosters transparency, collaboration, and rapid innovation. Encouraging 
the use of open -source AI solutions allows government agencies to customize tools to their 
specific needs while maintaining control over sensitive data. This strate gy can enhance security, 
reduce costs, and promote cross -agency collaboration, ultimately leading to more efficient and 
effective government operations. The Administration can avoid harsh over -regulation of open -
source models that holds back innovation and  progress in this area.  
3.Fostering Public -Private Partnerships
Innovation thrives in environments that support experimentation and agility without the 
constraints of regulatory uncertainty. We appreciate that the Administration has made it a 
priority to work with industry experts in policy formation to ensure that reg ulations reflect 
practical insights and promote innovation over overburdensome regulation. We encourage this 
work to continue.  
4. Promoting American AI Leadership Globally
Active participation in international discussions on AI standards, led by industry and supported 
by government partners, is crucial to maintaining America's leadership in the field. Engaging in 
global efforts to establish industry -driven standards, support ed by government initiatives, fosters 
a strong  domestic framework and strengthens American competitiveness. This proactive stance 
prevents adversaries from defining the AI landscape and ensures that U.S. values are 
represented in global standards.  
5. Investing in Talent Development
Addressing skills shortages will be imperative for sustaining AI innovation. Investing in STEM 
education, upskilling, and reskilling initiatives will ensure that the American workforce remains 
competitive in an AI -enabled world. Given the rapid evolution o f AI technologies, a significant 
portion of workers will require training to adapt to new roles and opportunities. In particular, the 
Administration can support AI and STEM education through Career and Technical Education 
(CTE) programs, as well as DOD tra ining and education activities, authorities, and partnerships.  
ServiceNow is committed to supporting the development and implementation of an AI Action 
Plan that fosters innovation and enhances government efficiency. By building upon existing 
voluntary frameworks, promoting open -source solutions, empowering industry l eaders, engaging 
in global standard -setting, and investing in talent development, the United States can maintain 
our leadership in AI and deliver tangible benefits to our citizens.  
We appreciate the opportunity to provide input on this critical initiative and look forward to 
continued collaboration with this Administration, the OSTP, NITRD, and other stakeholders in 
advancing America's AI capabilities.  
Respectfully,  
Combiz Abdolrahimi  
Vice President  
Global Head of Government Affairs and Public Policy  


