March  15, 2025  
Michael Kratsios  Sethuraman Panchanathan  
Director  Director  
Office Science and Technology Policy  National Science Foundation 
Washington, D.C.  20502  Alexandria, VA 22314  
Re: R equest for Information on the Development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Dear Director  Kratsios  and Director Panchanathan: 
The Security Industry Association (SIA) appreciates the opportunity to submit a response to the Office of 
Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) and the National Science Foundation (NSF) on its “Request for 
Information (RFI) on the Development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan.” We believe the ac tion 
plan could play a pivotal role in ensuring U.S. leadership in AI that will help secure the beneﬁts of AI driven technologies to society.  
About  SIA 
SIA Represents more than 1,500 companies that provide a wide array of products essential to protecting 
the physical safety of people property, businesses, schools, and critical infrastructure in the state and throughout the nation, and to  bolstering public safety as well as homeland and national security.  
We support development and use of AI technologies in ways that are human -centric, ethical and 
trustworthy and that mitigate potential risks,  as well as policies that ensure  society to continue s to 
harness the benefits of AI for enhancing safety and security.  
AI and Security 
AI stands to provide enormous individual, societal and economic beneﬁts in almost every sector. The 
possibilities of AI are particularly notable in safety and security applications , where  AI helps power  
advanced tools enabling technology users to analyze and respond to information in a substantially quicker and more accurate manner than traditional methods.  Associated techniques like machine 
learning, computer vision, deep learning, and neural networks can dramatically improve the capabilities of security solutions and have been the primary areas of recent technological innovation in our industry, 
which contributes $131  billion  in direct economic impact and supports  over 2  million jobs  across the 
United States .
1   
Today, these technologies are enhancing  applications for remote and on -site guarding, robotics, cloud 
computing,  biometrics,  sensor fusion, video analytics, anomaly recognition, object classiﬁcation, event 
1 https://www.securityindustry.org/member -resources/reports -publications/security -industry -economic -impact -report/.  


detection, passive weapons detection, drone detection and mitigation,  perimeter security s
automated alarm response, traffic and parking garage  management, and speeding up security 
investigations, just to name a few.  
Deploying AI-enabled security technologies continues to show results for providing more preventative 
versus reactionary capabilities in security operations, increasing operational efficiency and providing 
safer work and leisure environments – with clear  and obvious  public beneﬁts.  
For biometrics in particular, AI -powered software  for matching biometric data have transformed many 
safety and security operations . Widely used biometric identity verification capabilities such as fingerprint 
or facial recognition support  a tremendous volume of online commerce on a daily basis. These tools can 
help prevent identity theft and fraud, aiding in authentication and verification solutions for account access and financial transactions. These capabilities are also used for physical security such as  access 
control and facility security screening, and even support rapid and contactless travel experiences such as clearing customs and aviation security screening.  
AI has enabled the performance of facial recognition technology to reach , and in many cases exceed , 
automated ﬁngerprint comparison .2 End-users are relying on the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology (NIST) benchmarking3 to choose which technologies and algorithms to use based on 
accuracy. U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) testing recently found that technology it is using 
worked more than 99% of the time within fully operational systems , like ID checks for travelers . Supplier s 
also provide built -in control capabilities and implementation guidance or conditions, including the 
appropriate level of human review. Indeed, as is the case with AI tools generally, when deployed responsibly  and with appropriate human oversight , facial recognition technology has been shown to be 
more accurate than humans performing the same tasks unaided by the technology.
4 This also comes 
with signiﬁcant public safety and homeland security beneﬁts , including detecting individuals attempting 
to enter the U.S. illegally .5 Software  tools  utilizing this technology have also become indispensabl e to 
investigations of child sexual exploitation and human trafficking , and key to solving  many  cold cases and 
violent crimes.6 
Recomme ndations  
As the AI action plan is developed , we urge you to consider the following principles and 
recommendations.   
1.Bolstering the AI Workforce
The security industry is engaged in efforts to grow  its talent pipeline by working with colleges and 
vocational schools, as well as offering technical training, apprenticeship and certiﬁcation programs. We strongly support the expansion of hands -on workforce development partnerships between government 
2 https://www.securityindustry.org/2022/07/23/what -science-really -says -about-facial -recognition- accuracy -and -bias -
concerns/   
3 https://www.nist.gov/programs -projects/face -technology -evaluations -frtefate.  
4 https://www.pnas.org/doi/10.1073/pnas.1721355115  
5 See https://www.cbp.gov/travel/biometrics .  
6 SIA has collected reported success stories here - https://www.securityindustry.org/2020/07/16/facial -recognition -success -
stories -showcase -positive -use -cases -of-the-technology/ .  


and industry to help address the current skills shortage, including policies that make it easie
federally education  grants, loans , and tax beneﬁts to pursue these opportunities outside of traditional 
degree programs.  
2.Suppor ting Small Businesses and Start -Ups
Fostering an environment that promotes technological innovation is imperative to recruit and regain the 
workforce essential to AI, and to strengthen the position of  small businesses and start -ups to compete 
globally. The number of AI -focused start-ups in the security industry has grown exponentially within the 
current “open regulatory environment ,” where innovators are encouraged to experiment and invest in 
research and development .  
3.Ensuring Both the Availab ility  and Responsible use of Data
The availability of data is critical both to AI development  and to the effectiveness AI tools  that analyze it . 
When personal data is involved, it could impact privacy. A comprehensive national data privacy law 
could help ensure robust protections while allowing for the creation, collection, processing  and retention 
of data needed for AI developme nt and deployment  – so long as it is crafted  appropriately and thoroughly 
preempts divergent state laws. Consumers directly beneﬁt when data is used to enhance safety and 
security. We must ensure any AI or privacy rules do not render such technologies unusable, impractical 
or undermined . 
4.Facilitating Public -Private Partnerships for AI Testing and Evaluation
Some AI systems  clearly  require extensive testing due to their impact on homeland and national security , 
and public safety .7 This can include biometric identiﬁcation systems, large language models for critical 
applications, autonomous defense systems and surveillance -related technologies. The Administration 
should consider additional testing programs for select technologies, as well as requiring AI developers to 
account for the origin and lineage of their AI models to prevent the potential use of compromised models from adversaries. This would help mitigate risk from hostile alternations (data poisoning) that could compromise AI systems.  
Additionally, the Administration should increase resources for key ongoing testing and evaluation 
programs activities within the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) the Department of 
Homeland Security Science and Technology Directorate (DHS S&T ) related to AI, and consider additional 
resources to  these agencies as well as the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency  (DARPA) and the 
(Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity  (IARPA) facilitate studying t he performance of 
commercial security -related AI technologies in real -world settings.  
5.Commons ense Governance  Approaches
A risk -based approach is consistent with the federal government’s longstanding approach to emerging 
technology, including through the Congressionally mandated AI Risk Management Framework (AI RMF), 
7 For example, DHS Management Directive 026 -11 requires the agency to perform independent performance assessments on 
face capture and face recognition systems.  


as well as its accompanying document, the AI RMF Playbook.8 The AI RMF is a voluntary, flex
organizations to mitigate risks when developing and deploying AI tools. NIST has spent years developing 
the AI RMF at the direction of Congress, and during this development, NIST worked with industry and aligned its guidance with existing industry standards.
9 
Regarding any regulatory approach to governance, i t is important to  consider existing rules and 
regulations first, as many processes and decisions aided by AI are already covered by existing laws , and 
new concerns regarding AI could be addressed within or build upon  those frameworks. If it is clear 
additional policies are needed, any regulatory approaches should be technology -neutral and use -cas e 
specific, and appropriately focused on sector -specific  technology applications that are truly high -risk  as 
far as concrete harms to individuals . Relatedly , there is potential for state governments to create a 
patchwork of broadly scoped  AI policies that conflict  or are inconsistent . To ensure the U.S. retains its 
leadership position on AI, the U.S. government should work to prevent this type of outcome which could 
stifle innovation and growth.  
Conclusion  
SIA is committed to engaging with our industry and other stakeholders to ensure the beneﬁts of AI can be 
fully and responsibly harnessed to improve the lives of Americans and help solve some of our toughest 
challenges.  
Given the far -reaching and long -term strategic importance of AI -driven technologies  to the U.S. it is 
imperative as a nation that we get the  AI Action plan right . We appreciate the opportunity to respond to 
the RFI and are ready to provide any additional assistance the Administration might need as this important work continues.  
Respectfully Submitted, 
Don Erickson  
Chief Executive Officer  
Security Industry Association  
Silver Spring, MD  
www.securityindustry.org   
Staff Contact: Jake Parker, 
Note: This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or 
conﬁdential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan 
and associated documents without attribution.  
8 https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/ai/NIST.AI.100 -1.pdf ; https://airc.nist.gov/AI_RMF_Knowledge_Base/Playbook  
9 https://airc.nist.gov/AI_RMF_Knowledge_Base/Roadmap  


