Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics Response to Office of Science and 
Technology Policy Request for Information on the Development of an AI Action Plan  
The Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM) is an international community of 
14,000 individual members. Almost 500 academic, manufacturing, research and 
development, service and consulting organizations, government, and military organizations 
worldwide are institutional members. Our members come from many different disciplines 
but have a common interest in applying mathematics in partnership with computational 
science to advanc e the beneﬁts of artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) by improv ing federal  research 
efforts and applications across sectors, protecting data and privacy, and ensuring reliability 
and security in computational models and algorithms. Through publications, research, and community, the mission of SIAM is to build cooperation between mathematics and the 
worlds of science and technology. Thank you for the opportunity to respond to the Request 
for Information (RFI) on the Development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan.   
Federal research investments in AI and related ﬁelds , such as computational science , are 
critical to advance innovation and ensure continued American leadership . AI has the 
potential to reshape many scientiﬁc disciplines as well as other sectors such as health, 
energy, defense, and education. As applied mathematicians, the SIAM community 
appreciates efforts both to advance foundational artiﬁcial intelligence , as well as to build 
partnerships t hat enable speciﬁc application areas . In this response , we wi ll focus on 
several key areas for research and development , infrastructure needs, as well as education 
and workforce recommendations . 
Research and Development  
While AI has made tremendous strides over the last few years, further investment is needed to continue the cycle of innovation, ensure AI systems can be built for the 
particular needs of science and other government missions, and that AI can be reli ed upon 
and secure.  Federal investment should focus on supporting a broad range of projects and leveraging convergent teams at different sizes to encourage maximum innovation.   For 
example , the National Science Foundation’s (NSF) Mathematical Foundations of Artiﬁcial 
Intelligence  program  is enabling small teams of mathematicians, engineers, and computer 
scientists  to address key foundational gaps in the mathematical and theoretical 
underpinning s of  AI to address its current limitations and challenges . These foundational 
programs should be part of a larger portfolio that also includes major investments , such as 
the NSF -funded National AI Research Institutes  and the Department of Energy’s (DOE) 
Frontiers in Artiﬁcial Intelligence for Science, Security and Technology (FASST) initiative  and 


AI Testbeds , that focus on advancing  AI in speciﬁc application areas.   Investments should 
also continue to be made in fundamental research to develop AI technologies through core 
programs such as those in NSF’s Division of Mathematical Sciences and DOE’s Office of 
Advanced Scientiﬁc Computing Research . High -risk, high -reward research that enables 
major breakthroughs is another critical component of a robust research portfolio at agencies such as the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) and the 
Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA -H). DARPA has had a longstanding 
role in pushing the frontiers of AI forward , while ARPA -H has already built an impressive 
portfolio in computational tools, AI, digital twins, and other computational areas .  
AI needs data and data across many agencies requires  investment before it can be 
efficiently used for AI. Investment is needed in research and development to create an integrated suite of data lifecycle methods and tools, informed by the speciﬁc needs of 
federal research communities at the DOE , NSF , National Institutes of Health (NIH), 
Department of Defense (DOD), and other agencies. Techniques that lead to data 
harmonization and normalization, such as data cleaning, validation, and error correction 
must b e developed to overcome the natural heterogeneity of data sources which is in 
inherent conﬂict with the need for data fusion. Open research questions remain around 
analyzing highly distributed data sources, enabling data discovery and integration, tracking 
data provenance, coping with sampling biases and heterogeneity, ensuring data integrity, 
privacy, security, and sharing, and visualizing massive datasets . The National Institute of 
Standards and Technology (NIST) also has an important role to play in setting data and AI standards and convening academic, industry, and other stakeholders to share data and AI 
systems for measurements of reliability, safety, security, and vulnerabilities.  
Research focused on the intersection of modeling and AI can unlock tremendous progress 
in scientiﬁc discovery . The current theory and practice of AI struggles to incorporate 
physical models and constraints. Formulations of new AI algorithms structured to include 
physical models, rather than having to “learn” the physics, will allow the designs of new 
classes of AI applications optimized exactly for the scientiﬁc tasks that require them. To do 
this will require advances in such formalisms as projection operators that enforce physical 
principles, data structures that encode symmetries and constraints, and the construction 
of physical priors and their injection into mathematical models.  
Many scientists are exploring ideas and developing new insights, but the ﬁeld of scientiﬁc 
machine learning is still evolving . Alphafold13, Google’s breakthrough technology for 
predicting protein conformations, showcased the potential for ML to outperform traditional scientiﬁc approaches. Other potential roles for ML in science include automatically 
monitoring and running exper iments or series of experiments, improved methods for 


combining simulation results and experimental data, and the generation of new 
hypotheses from data. Quite likely, the most important ideas have not yet been thought of. 
Many AI models focus on prediction accuracy without a focus on explainability. For 
scientiﬁc applications, prediction without insight is seldom enough. A key area of 
exploration is the development of interpretable models and algorithms that provide insight into  why and how a model produces  a particular output. This requires investment in  
techniques for explainable AI models . Artiﬁcial intelligence and machine learning have 
enormous potential to impact the processes of scientiﬁc research, but broad investments in mathematics and computing will be required to realize these opportunities.  
A particular area of promise for AI innovation is at the intersections of  AI and health. AI 
holds tremendous promise to revolutionize biomedical research in the understanding of chronic diseases, diagnostics, and development of treatments . Health agencies , such as 
the NIH , lag physical science agencies in their AI investments and need a focused initiative 
to take advantage of this promising technology while addressing privacy  and other issues.  
An AI initiative could invest in potential research moonshots t o develop AI that will truly 
work and be trustworthy for health applications . Further research is also needed to address 
AI use in  healthcare to accelerate the development and deployment of reliable  AI that 
provides accurate diagnosis and treatments for all patients. AI is accelerating at such a speed that NIH needs to keep up with the advancements of this emerging ﬁeld and related 
technology like digital twins. In absence of dedicated funding, NIH may fail to adapt to AI 
that could shape the future of the  U.S. healthcare system . OSTP should also  encourage 
participation of relevant Health and Human Service agencies including NIH, Centers for 
Disease Control  (CDC), and the Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) in NSF’s National 
Artiﬁcial Intelligence Research Institutes program to address these challenges.  
Another promising area is the intersection of AI and the basic science, energy, and national 
security missions of DOE.  Additional research funding is needed to fully realize the 
potential of AI for these applications. Current and p ast successes, such as the 
development of a digital twin for a nuclear power plant to aid in inspections and 
maintenance , and AI -based screening and d esign of f unctional materials for h arsh 
environments, including fusion reactors, are just the tip of the iceberg of what the 
incred ible developments AI can bring to these areas.  
New mathematical foundations are needed for the development of AI methods that are 
explainable and reliable. Foundational work is also needed in the following topical areas:  
• Adversarial AI, cybersecurity, and how to address other security challenges.  
• Data Sparse AI: Data  that are available to large language models are  starting to 
reach a limit and this will hinder further innovation without new methods. 


Furthermore, individuals and organizations are likely  to protect the data they 
produce, further making data accessibility harder. Generative models that are based 
on ﬁrst principles understanding can be used to augment measured data. This is 
even more important in scientiﬁc applications wherein large amounts of data will 
never be available . 
•Energy Efficient AI: Current AI techniques cannot simply continue on their path of
energy consumption; it is not sustainable. New mathematical and algorithmictechniques are needed to develop more efficient use of AI subsystems.
Infrastructure 
AI research requires large -scale  infrastructure that keeps advancements out of reach for 
many beyond the most highly  resourced companies . The federal government can help 
advance a more robust ecosystem for AI innovation and enable university and national lab 
research efforts through investments in federal AI infrastructure  that are available to users 
through a competitive process to make sure the most promising research gains access . At 
NSF , the National AI Research Resource  (NAIRR) pilot is underway follow ing a task force 
effort initiated in the ﬁrst Trump Administration . The pilot will end in FY 2026 and NSF 
should look to build the full NAIRR that will revolutionize AI capabilities . At DOE, in addition 
to the National Laboratory AI Testbeds, a facility or facilities should be established to 
ensure that researchers have access to experimental non -traditional hardware that will 
inform a holistic codesign cycle between manufacturers and users of transformative 
computing technologies. As the non -traditional computing hardware industry evolves and 
the roles of different enterprises change, the government should remain open to establishing new types of collaborations and relationships with both existing and emerging 
industrial partners. These new devices will li kely be initially employed as accelerators, so 
their ability to integrate with existing high -performance computing ( HPC ) platforms must be 
part of the design process.  Investments are also needed  in research and development 
collaborations between computational scientists and computer vendors to ensure development of future energy efficient comput ing platforms that meet the needs of the 
computational science community.  
Investments are needed in foundational models as well as the research, software tools, 
and system management tools needed to enable complex workﬂows that combine 
simulation with machine learning  so that AI can better work with existing HPC  computing 
infrastructure  supported. This is primarily a role for DOE along with some investments from 
NSF and DOD .  


Partnerships 
Computational science has always been an interdisciplinary endeavor, drawing on 
mathematics, computer science, and application domains. With the growth in the 
importance of data science and AI , the ﬁeld is becoming even broader . National 
Laboratories, academia, and industry all have speciﬁc strengths to beneﬁt AI research and 
development. Many of the most pressing scientiﬁc and societal challenges can only be 
solved through the efforts of multidisciplinary, multi -institutional teams. The federal 
governm ent should create incentives for interdisciplinary education and research 
collaboration that engage National Laboratories, academia, and industry.  
Establishment of additional coordination and engagement between the applied mathematics and computational science community and the wide -ranging federal 
healthcare and biomedical research will improve the nation’s preparedness, health systems,  drug development and approval pathways . For example, NIH and FDA recently 
collaborated with NSF on a program to catalyze the development  of digital twins for 
biomedical and healthcare technologies to improve clinical trials . The Administration  
should encourage these kinds of collaborations to bring together researchers from computer science, applied math, and engineering along with those in health operations, 
behavioral science, regulatory science, and biomedical research to foster new ways to 
evaluate medical devices,  better modeling for disease  preparedness, and development of 
new tools.  This model can be adapted to other agencies and application areas to further 
additional applications . The NSF National AI Research Institutes  are a nother  good model 
for interagency c ollaboration and involve the partnership  of several agencies , including  the 
United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Department of Education (ED), and DOD . More agencies should be encouraged to join  this 
program to harness breakthrough research for addressing  their  unique mission needs.  
Education and Workforce  
Finally, as an organization representing thousands of researchers and educators from hundreds of academic institutions, SIAM is well aware of the AI R&D workforce challenges 
facing the nation.  The potential limitations posed by workforce shortages could 
signiﬁcantly constrain our ability to maintain our leadership in AI amid an international 
environment that is growing increasingly competitive . Federal science agencies have a 
critical role to play in sustaining the vitality of AI R&D in the U.S. through their support of 
research and education programs . SIAM recommends that the Action Plan includes 
support for programs like NSF’s NSF Research Traineeships (NRT), Graduate Research 
Fellowships (GRF) , Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU), and CAREER awards 
as well as DOE’s Computational Science Graduate Fellowship program. These programs 


are crucial to the training and professional development of the next generation of the 
mathematical researchers and computational scientists who will underpin U.S. 
competitiveness in AI in future decades . Agencies should also look for opportunities  to 
pursue partnerships and offer internships that give students exposure to National 
Laboratories, intramural research, or defense challenges . Exposure to federal laboratories  
has proven to be an effective way to inspire students at all levels to pursue careers in 
federal service, which is an important avenue alongside industry and academic workforce needs .  
Undergraduate curricula are critically important to ensuring American preeminence in AI 
through education in the mathematical foundations of machine learning . SIAM 
recommends that the action plan commit s to supporting the integration of data science 
and modeling  into undergraduate STEM coursework in order to improve students’ 
familiarity with these subjects as they seek to successfully enter the AI workforce , use AI in 
their scientiﬁc or engineering careers,  and shape future innovations .  The Administratio n 
should also consider ways to develop AI technology for new ways of upskilling and 
retraining the workforce as large sectors evolve through increasing use of AI . 
 Sincerel y, 
Carol Wood ward   Suzanne L. Weekes         Alejandro Aceves 
President         Chief Executive Officer      Vice President for 
    Science Policy  
This docum ent is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or conﬁdential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  


