 
   
 
   
March 15, 2025  
Networking & Information Technology  R&D Office   Office of Science & Technology Policy  
National Science Foundation      White House  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue      1650 Pennsylvania Avenue NW  
Alexandria, VA 22314       Washington, DC 20 502 
 
RE: Siemens USA Response  to NSF and OSTP’s Request for Information on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan . 
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary 
or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the 
AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
 
Introduction & Executive Summary  
 
As a committed partner in American manufacturing, Siemens USA commends the administration for its 
commitment to developing an AI action plan prioritizing  innovation, advanc ing competitiveness, and 
bolster ing American technology  leadership. Siemens is helping to pioneer America’s industrial tech 
sector  and is at the forefront of industrial artificial intelligence (Industrial AI). The company appreciate s 
the United States’  focus on AI as a  national priority  positioned to  strengthen domestic manufacturing, 
empower the American workforce, and drive digitalization across all sectors . 
 
Siemens is proud that the U.S. is the company’s  largest market , having  invested more than $90 billion  
in America over  the past 20 years . Most r ecently, Siemens  invested nearly $700  million in new 
manufacturing facilities and factory expansions  in North Carolina, South Carolina, California, Texas, 
Wisconsin , and New York. With 45,000 employees and 12,000 local  suppliers in the United States, 
Siemens  technology is deployed nationally, supporting critical infrastructure and vital industries 
forming the backbone of America’s economy.  With thousands of customers across  all 50 states and 
Puerto Rico, Siemens is  creating more productive factories, more resilient buildings, and more efficient 
power systems.  
 
Harnessing expertise as the largest global provider of industrial automation hardware and software , 
Siemens  deploys  solutions with  unique capabilit ies to combine the real and digital worlds. This domain 
know -how coupled with  a proven track record  of developing and advancing industry and infrastructure 
enables Siemens to provide valuable guidance to government leaders on the development of tech 
polic y frameworks . The AI Action Plan  will help to inform the federal focus on AI  leadership, and 
Siemens sees Industrial AI applications  as essential to this national priorit y. 
 
Siemens plays a critical role in nearly every step of the AI value chain, from chip design to facility 
optimization to data centers to applications in every sector.  The company is pleased  to lend its 
technical expertise and perspective on Industrial AI to advance economic competitiveness , strengthen 
national security , and maximize  the full potential of American manufacturing.  
 
Summary of Key Recommendations :  
 
1. Distinguish between Industrial AI and Consumer AI : Federal leaders must recognize the unique 
role of Industrial AI in the AI ecosystem and acknowledge this distinction in any AI -related policy  


2 action. Industrial AI applications differ significantly from consumer AI by relying on highly 
monitored , physics -based data to meet rigorous industrial standards. The advancement of these 
applications will empower the next generation of domestic manufacturing in the U.S., and it is 
critical to prioritize forward -thinking policies that will maximize Industri al AI's potential.  
2.Support the R&D and Innovation Ecosystem : The strength of AI depends on the quality of
computational resources and the ongoing research and development activities pushing American
technology leadership to the cutting -edge. The federal government must dedicate funding to drive
innovation through R&D programs, create a favorable environment to incentivize the private sector
to further invest in R&D, strengthen support for industrial frontier models, and work across
industry, academia and government to accelerate  these investments .
3.Invest in Hardware & Chips : Semiconductors remain essential for AI development, and federal
leaders  have an opportunity to galvanize  domestic onshoring for chip  manufacturing  by driving
public and private sector  investment in chip design and manufacturing. Digitalization and
Industrial AI can enhance the semiconductor supply chain, offering end -to-end solutions for smart,
secure, and reliable processes.  The forthcoming AI Action Plan should prioritize  policies that boost
domestic chip capacity, promote digital twins, advanc e the semiconductor design ecosystem,
support public -private initiatives, and integrate traceability principles.
4.Strengthen Data Center Supply Chains : Data centers are pivotal to the digital economy and AI
development, driving technological innovation and economic growth. To maintain U.S. leadership
in AI, the U.S. must prioritize the infrastructure and supply chains that power data centers. This
inclu des ensuring the availability of essential electrical components and addressing industry
challenges that result in long lead times and rising costs, two current obstacles to rapid data center
expansion.
5.Meet the AI Energy Challenge : The energy demands of data centers are significant, driven by
continuous operation and the computational power required for AI development. To meet these
demands, fostering energy efficiency innovations and modernizing the U.S. energy system are
essential. Policy solutions include energy efficiency R&D, grid infrastr ucture investments,
accelerating grid interconnection, and integrating distributed energy resources, as well as
convening industry stakeholders to develop regulatory frameworks and best practices that support
new data center deployment.
6.Advancing Digital Twins for National Security Impact : AI-enabled digital twins are transforming
national security by simulating and optimizing production in a digital environment before taking
action in the real world. This technology  leads to  significant improvements in quality control and
resilience in manufacturing, ensuring the U.S. can produce critical defense materials and
technologies domestically. Siemens recommends utilizing digital twins to modernize national
defense, improv ing transparency and accountability through Digital Product Passports, and
integrat ing these solutions into DoD’s  overall modernization strategy .
7.Bolstering the Workforce : Generative AI, when applied in the industrial context, makes
technologies more intuitive  and allows workers to interact with machines using natural language,
thereby empowering  both experienced workers and new hires  to find advanced career
opportunities. To maximize Industrial AI's positive impact  on the manufacturing workforce , the AI


 
3 
 Action Plan should in clude a focus o n boosting skilled development programs and build ing 
meaningful partnerships across industry, academia, and government to address labor shortages 
and skill demands . 
 
8. Prioritizing Strong Digital Trade  Protections : The U.S. must emphasize strong digital trade rules 
that protect source code and algorithm s, build ing upon the suc cess of previous  efforts to safeguard 
intellectual property  and prevent forced data localization  in trade agreements. These measures will 
support innovati on by  giving the U.S. technology sector the tools needed to compete globally and 
enabl e companies of all sizes to thrive in the new era of American manufacturing.  
 
Detailed Response & Recommendations  
 
Distinguish ing between Industrial AI and Consumer AI  
 
Siemens has been working on Industrial AI since the 1970s, when R&D teams first began incorporating 
AI into the company’s  products. Industrial AI differs significantly from AI used in commercial or 
consumer settings , as i t must meet the rigorous requirements and standards of the most demanding 
industrial environments. With the ability to process large amounts of machine data and recognize 
complex patterns, Industrial AI helps organizations of all sizes accelerate their digital transformation at 
scale. Industrial AI stands to revolutionize manufacturing processes across  product and production  line 
design, operations, and a full suite of services.  
 
Industrial AI is advancing automation and digitalization across industries, spanning power, automotive, 
aerospace, pharmaceutical, food & beverage, chemical, oil & gas, and more. With a digital -first 
approach built on massive volumes of data, Industrial AI is positioned to play an ever -increasing role in 
product design, testing, and creation  to fully leverage the tremendous amount of industrial 
information generated in manufacturing processes. Thus, advancing the capabilities of Industrial AI is 
critical to  securing domestic manufacturing, driving American economic growth, competing in the 
global economy, and advancing U.S. technological leadership.  
 
To harness the full potential of Industrial AI, it is vital for the administration to distinguish  the unique 
role of industrial applications from consumer -focused applications . The core distinction is that  
Industrial  AI is trained on highly monitored data from sensors , machines,  previous product designs, 
proprietary intellectual property, and other sensitive sources – providing a more reliable foundation for 
training AI models in this domain when compared to generally publicly available data used for many 
consumer -facing AI uses. Industrial AI is trusted, physics -based, and can be used to speak the com plex 
languages of engineering and manufacturing. Furthermore, in industrial settings, manufacturers 
implement robust data quality checks and validation processes to ensure the accuracy and consistency 
of industrial data, which is critical for trustworthy AI.  
 
As production becomes more connected and automated , Industrial AI is making human -machine 
collaboration more innovative, enabling manufacturing operators and engineers to find and analyze 
the most useful data points , which no human could ever fully analyze and interpret alone. This data 
analysis enables quicker decision -making that advances product customization and production 
efficiency.  The administration  has many opportunities to bolster and accelerate Industrial AI growth, 
including:  
 
• Boost ing Understanding  of Industrial AI : Although AI has been deployed in some capacity in 
industrial settings for decades, there continues to be very little understanding of the impact and 


4 unique uses of Industrial AI.  Federal leaders  should  acknowledge the specific importance of 
Industrial AI in AI -related executive action, thereby deepening understanding throughout the 
policy ecosystem of  the distinct operation of Industrial AI  systems and the unique trustworthiness 
of the data they are trained on.  
•Promulgat ing Narrower Definitions  Related to AI : Especially as state legislatures across the country
consider individual measures to regulate AI, targeted definitions matter more than ever. Overly
broad definitions of which role an AI actor plays  (developer, deployer, etc.)  will negatively impact
the ability of manufacturers to develop and provide access to next -generation technologies.  In
addition to being specific about the role of AI actors, it is essential to be very specific about risk.
Most Industrial  AI applications are utilized early in the  value chain to optimize all stages leading up
to finished products (design, testing, validation, etc.), and thus the applications are not necessarily
deployed in the operational environment.  Tailored definitions will be essential to avoid
overburdening manufacturers as the data used in Industrial AI already meets higher standards
since it is real-time, high -volume, and  more trustworthy.
•Growing  and Deepening Public -Private Partnerships : The federal government must focus on
aligning public sector priorities with private industry efforts to maximize the impact of Industrial AI.
The relationship between the public sector and the private sector is critical, and the entire AI
ecosystem benefits from expanding understanding of fast -moving technology, fi nding creative
ways to encourage broader adoption, and creating the necessary ecosystems to develop
technology further.
➢Investing in Manufacturing USA Institutes : A strong  example of a successful public -private
ecosystem is Manufacturing USA. The network of Manufacturing USA Institutes is effective
in improving the competitiveness of U.S. manufacturing by accelerating technology
commercialization and developing the workforce. The administration should prioritize
continued support for this program, especially for dedicated Institutes focused on AI in
manufacturing.
•Aligning with international standards  and voluntary AI frameworks : The  U.S. should seek to
assimilate new standards setting activities with  internationally recognized standards and best
practices  that have already been crafted for  AI risk management , including NIST’s AI Risk
Management Framework. Voluntary international technical standards are essential for fostering
alignment, interoperability, and trust in AI systems  both nationally and globally . By setting
international benchmarks that are voluntarily adhered to by companies of all sizes, these standards
provide structured processes for risk management and governance  that facilitate innovation and
technological advancement.
Industrial AI stands to empower and embolden the next generation of manufacturing in the United 
States. As the federal government remains committed to revitalizing this critical sector, the 
administration must  prioritize forward -thinking policies to support  Industrial AI and its ability to grow 
the economy, create jobs, empower innovation, and secure the next generation of American industry.  
Support ing the R&D & Innovation Ecosystem  
At Siemens,  research teams have been dedicated to innovation and Industrial AI for decades, focusing 
on creating purposeful solutions to advance AI integration across core company technologies and 
competencies. Today, there are over  1,400 AI experts around the world and more than 500 active AI 
patent families  at Siemens . As the  federal leaders  prioritize  boosting AI innovation and fortifying U.S. 


 
5 
 national R&D infrastructure, a dedicated focus on industrial applications and reliable use in 
manufacturing settings  is critical . Siemens has focused R&D teams working to develop cutting -edge 
solutions for augmenting large language models (LLMs) to fit the industrial context, as well as to use 
existing technology to build security mechanisms  inside the AI systems to maximize their reliability.  
 
The growth of innovation in Industrial AI presents significant opportunity for transforming operational 
technology at the intersection of industry and AI. As operational environments are highly complex and 
rigid, Industrial AI – especially using generative  AI – swiftly synthesize s knowledge of an operational 
system, combine s it with planning information and engineering data, and allow s operators to see their 
options for maximizing efficiency and optimizing productivity.  
 
However, significant work remains to fully harness the potential of AI for industrial applications – 
starting at the model level. For domestic manufacturers to achieve meaningful gains in efficiency for 
industrial applications,  invest ments must be made  in AI models that are able to natively speak in the 
modalities required by industry. These models do not exist toda y. Manufacturers interact with data and 
information in modalities extend ing beyond what today’s readily available LLMs are able to consume. 
Existing LLMs are trained to generate responses in text, images, videos, and computer source code. In 
contrast, the physics -based industrial frontier models  that would be required to natively handle 
industrial data  must understand and speak in the language of engineering and manufacturing – 
system design, mechanical design, electrical design, simulation, bills of materials, etc. The U.S. is well 
positioned to advance policies and seed an innovation ecosystem to optimize manufacturing for the 
benefit  of every industry through greater efficiency. Siemens looks forward to building on industry 
partnerships  to implement solutions and recommend the following:  
 
• Supporting dedicated AI R&D programs focused on industrial applications : Across the federal 
ecosystem, agencies must ensure their R&D programs include specific focus on industrial 
applications for AI and frontier models. These resources are necessary over the long term to ensure 
models are created and continuously upgraded as i ndustrial contexts are updated with new 
frontier developments in digitalization. By allocating resources towards industrial technologies and 
manufacturing ecosystems, federal agencies can create a favorable environment to incentivi ze the 
private sector to further invest in R&D. These efforts would be well positioned in several agencies 
including, but not limited to, the Departments of Commerce, Defense, and Energy, and the 
National Science Foundation . 
 
• Convening public -private research collaborations : Especially when it comes to Industrial AI, a large 
share of the cutting -edge research and development is already taking place in the private sector. 
However, partnerships are crucial to driving new developments and capturing the full potential of 
Industr ial AI. While there are several notable collaborations already underway between the private 
sector and academia, it would be constructive  for the federal government to join Industrial AI -
focused research partnerships to align priorities with the national policy agenda.  
 
• Increasing access to federal data and computational resources : The ability to advance innovation 
for AI systems is dependent on access to large and diverse sets of both structured and unstructured 
data to effectively train models. A central challenge in building models – especially those needed 
to predictively maint ain and predict improvements for a manufacturing environment – is gathering 
enough data to train robust AI systems. The administration should prioritize national efforts – in 
partnership with nat ional labs and existing research institutes – to make more datasets available in 
machine -readable and industrial -deployable formats.  These priorities must include support for 
shared, domain -specific testing environments and testing data to lower R&D costs and enable 
better validation.  


6 ➢Endorsing a shared national research resource for AI : There is bipartisan congressional
support for the National AI Research Resource (NAIRR), a shared national research
infrastructure bringing together computational, data, software, AI models and training, and
user support resources for research institutio ns and academia across the country. This
shared resource will ensure  companies of all sizes and researchers from all disciplines  have
access to advanced AI systems, computing power, testbeds, open -source models, and high -
powered computational tools. It would be impactful for  the administration to support the
NAIRR or a similar alternative, as well to work with Congress to authorize this essential
initiative to accelerate the pace of AI R&D in the U.S.
➢Providing broader resources for open -source data : Open -source data and tools are essential
for AI R&D, as the y enable researchers and developers to build, test, and deploy AI models
efficiently  and at scale across applications . Several federal programs  must continue to
provide these valuable resources to the AI ecosystem , especially  NIST’s National
Vulnerability Database , a critical resource for identifying and managing risks in software
and hardware , including those related to AI systems .
U.S. AI leadership requires strong investment in national R&D infrastructure to explore new algorithms 
and models, continuously improve AI capabilities, and tailor uses across industries. The gains to be 
made in unleashing the full potential of Industrial AI and its applications  are essential to fulfill the  
administration ’s commit ment  to onshoring domestic manufacturing. Siemens stands ready to partner 
with the federal government and across the AI ecosystem to maximize innovation and position the 
U.S. for economic growth and competitiveness.  
Investing in Hardware & Chips  
Semiconductors are critical for developing AI technology, especially as t rends  accelerate towards more 
advanced logic and memory chips.  Federal leaders have  an opportunity to drive continued investment 
for chips to be designed and manufactured in the U.S. For the domestic semiconductor manufacturing 
ecosystem to thrive , the federal government should  prioritiz e the continued development of new 
manufacturing techniques and technologies through digitalization.  Powered by Industrial AI, digital 
transformation applied to the semiconductor supply chain offers significant opportunity for end -to-end 
solutions for smart, secure, and reliable process es for designing and manufacturing next -generation 
chips.  
The lifecycle of a semiconductor product is complex, and its complexity grows exponentially as 
semiconductors move through systems and across global supply chains. Digitalization  offers a strong 
solution  to supply chain concern s by introducing  the opportunity for  end-to-end traceability . 
Traceability provides the capability  to supervise all transaction s between data generator s and to 
provide product provenance for chip -to-system design, development, and manufacturing.  
Manufacturers of all sizes can use traceability  to track all inputs and manufacturing steps of all 
materials , thereby guaranteeing ultimate product security . As semiconductor products  uses range from 
consumer devices  to finished electronic products used in defense systems , this security is es pecially 
essential to verifying the sources of each component used in the end product.    
As a global leader in semiconductor innovation and design, Siemens recommends the federal 
government continue to prioritize policies that boost domestic chip capacity, including:   


 
7 
 • Promot ing digitalization and digital twins across semiconductor production : The administration 
should encourage the digital transformation of the semiconductor industry . Some of the costliest  
area s of the semiconductor value chain lie in  fabrication construction and semiconductor design – 
both of which can be best addresse d by leveraging  a comprehensive digital twin. A digital twin is a 
digital representation of a physical asset or process that evolves over the lifecycle, from a product 
or machine to production, plants or even the entire supply chain. Digital twins allow companies to 
manage the complexities of integrating software and hardware teams, integrate mechanical and 
production requirements, and achieve the necessary efficiency gains to be effective in the 
semiconductor ecosystem . The administration should  support action that will expand the use of 
digital twins in addressing onshoring of the domestic semiconductor supply chain.  
 
• Nurturing the semiconductor design ecosystem : In addition to incentives for the creation and 
proliferation of semiconductor manufacturing in the U.S., the administration must  focus 
investment and support on semiconductor design. While less capital intensive than manufacturing, 
semiconductor design represents a key point of enablement for  the foundational innovations that 
underly AI. Private sector focus on designs optimized for AI workloads and applications is growing 
consistently. Timely and aggressive emp hasis from the federal government on semiconductor 
design  solutions developed in the U.S. will ensure a healthy innovation pipeline for the fast -
changing future.  
 
• Continuing support for public -private initiatives on semiconductor manufacturing : As previously 
mentioned, the Manufacturing USA Institutes program has been very successful in increasing 
domestic manufacturing competitiveness and promoting a robust R&D infrastructure. The 
administration must  continue  to support  this program in the semiconductor domain, especially to 
launch dedicated initiatives for semiconductor manufacturing. These SMART (Semiconductor 
Manufacturing and Advanced Research with Twins) USA Institutes will significantly enhance the 
domestic semiconductor industry by de ploying  digital twins to improve  design, manufacturing, 
advanced packaging, assembly, and test processes.   
 
• Integrating trusted traceability principles in the semiconductor supply chain : Siemens  appreciate s 
the administration’s strong focus on bolstering the U.S. domestic supply chain. The administration 
should support the allocation of federal resources towards specific activities to secure and enhance 
the supply chain – especially traceability. Federal resources and funding must  be designated 
towards creating standards for trusted traceability and program implementation, as well as 
incentives for companies to actively participate in the implementation of trusted supply chain 
traceability infrastructure .   
 
Strengthen ing Data Center Supply Chains  
 
In today’s digital economy, data centers are core drivers of growth and technological innovation. They 
house the computer systems stor ing and manag ing the vast amounts of data generated daily  – data 
essential for the functioning of commerce, online services, social media, and more.1 Data centers are 
also integral to AI development, providing the computational requirements, real -time processing 
capabilities, and cloud services needed for machine and deep learning. As the digital economy 
continues to grow and AI becomes  increasingly integrated into daily lives, global demand for data 
 
1 The U.S. data center industry's direct contribution to U.S. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) increased 53 percent between 2017 -2021, from 
$89 billion to $136 billion, according to a study by PWC. Economic, Environmental, and Social Impacts of Data Centers in the United States , 
PWC (Sept. 2023), https://www.centerofyourdigitalworld.org/2023 -impact -study.  


8 center capacity could rise at an annual rate of 19  to 22 percent between  2023 and 2030 , reaching an 
annual demand of 171 to 219 gigawatts.2  
To support continued buildout of data centers here in the United States —and continued global 
leadership in AI —the federal government must prioritize the infrastructure and supply chains needed 
to power data centers. The energy needs of large -scale data cen ters are immense, requiring reliable 
and uninterruptible  power supply. To deliver that energy,  data centers require  a robust ecosystem  of 
electrical distribution equipment and grid technologies, including circuit breakers, panel boards, 
switchgear, switchb oards, substations, monitoring devices, transformers, and software to ensure data 
center safety, efficiency, and reliability. The availability of electrical components is therefore a key 
concern for data center developers. Long lead times and rising costs for these technologies are a 
potential obstacle to the rapid growth of data center construction in the U.S.  
The U.S. electrical manufacturing industry has moved boldly to support the acceleration of data center 
construction and AI development. Siemens alone has invested nearly $700  million in recent years to 
build high -tech manufacturing facilities in the U.S., including medium - and low -voltage power 
equipment used in data centers and other critical infrastructure. In March 2025 , Siemens  cut the 
ribbon for the company’s  newest  facility, investing  $190 million in Fort Worth , Texas  to produc e low-
voltage switchboards for data center customers, an investment to include a total of  800 new jobs to 
the local economy by next year.3 Additionally, Siemens recently celebrated the opening of its new 
Pomona, California manufacturing facility adjacent to its legacy site, increasing the  capacity  on campus  
to manufacture vital low -voltage electrical equipment, such as switchboards and lighting panels.4 This 
site enables Siemens to better meet demand from industrial, commercial, and construction markets, 
with outsized need from America’s booming data center industry. Siemens also has plants in Grand 
Prairie, TX, Broken Arrow, OK, Spartanburg, SC, and Wen dell, NC, each  manufactur ing electrical 
technologies for data centers.  
Siemens and other electrical manufacturing industry leaders are eager to continue investing in U.S. 
supply chains and work with the federal government to power the future of the U.S. AI industry . Due 
to the importance of electrical components to the data center and AI sectors, Siemens recommends 
the following:  
•Industry Convenings to Support Data Center Supply Chain Security . The White House, in
coordination with the Department of Energy, Department of Commerce, and other agencies, could
host industry -led convenings on critical electrical and grid components (including software,
transformers, switchgear, circuit breakers, switchboards, and other technologies) to examine
policy, regulatory, and market challenges facing electrical manufactu ring supply chains for data
centers. These convenings should include manufacturers, data center developers, electric utilities,
and other private -sector stakeholders , and should seek to identify policy recommendations to
support the expansion of electrical  manufacturing capacity both in the U.S. and among allies to
meet the infrastructure needs of AI and data center growth.
2 Bhargs Srivathsan, et al., AI power: Expanding data center capacity to meet growing demand , McKinsey & Company (Oct. 2024), 
https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/technology -media -and-telecommunications/our -insights/ai -power -expanding -data-center -capacity -to-
meet -growing -demand.  
3 Siemens officially opens doors on $190M Fort Worth manufacturing hub to support AI infrastructure boom , Siemens (March 2025), 
https://www.siemens.com/us/en/company/press/press -releases/smart -infrastructure/siemens -opens -190m -ft-worth -mfg-hub-ai-
infrastructure.html.  
4 Siemens Invests $95 Million to Expand and Upgrade Legacy Pomona, CA Facility, Increases Manufacturing Capacity for Critical U .S. 
Energy Infrastructure , Siemens (March 2025), https://www.siemens.com/us/en/company/press/press -releases/smart -infrastructure/siemens -
invests -95m-expand -pomona -facility.html.  


9 Through collaboration between the federal government and industry, the U.S. can ensure AI 
infrastructure is built at the speed and scale needed to win the AI race.  
Meet ing the AI Energy Challenge  
One of the biggest challenges facing the U.S. in its efforts to accelerate innovation in AI is the energy 
needs of data centers. Data centers require significant power because they house thousands of 
continuously operating servers and networking equipment which  process and store massive amounts 
of data. The scale of data processing and the need for uninterrupted operation —as well as the robust 
cooling systems required to prevent servers and other assets from overheating —drive high energy 
consumption. Moreov er, developing next -gen AI models, including LLMs, is an energy -intensive 
process due to the computational power needed to train them on vast datasets across multiple 
graphics processing units (GPUs).  
As AI adoption and innovation continues to scale, data center power needs are likely to increase 
substantially. One study estimates data center demand is expected to grow to about three times 
higher than current capacity by the end of the decade, rising fr om 3  to 4 percent of total U.S. power 
demand today to between 11 and 12 percent in 2030.5 Data center energy needs, coupled with 
surging demand from manufacturing and electrification countrywide , are driving the U.S. into a new 
era of power sector load growth.  
Energy availability is already a major factor in determining whether —and how quickly —new data 
centers can come online. The time required to establish new power connections for data center sites in 
major hubs around the country is increasing, with lead time s in critical regions reaching three years or 
longer .6 
To meet th e energy challenge, the U.S. must foster new innovations in efficient energy infrastructure , 
as well as  leverage grid and energy technologies to quickly power new data center builds.  
A.Fostering Energy Efficiency Innovation
Energy efficiency within the data center ecosystem can promote a range of benefits, including 
optimizing spend and resource savings, improving  data center reliability, and minimizing impacts 
to the grid. Tech companies and data center operators invest  heavily in energy efficiency 
innovation to capture these benefits. Data center efficiency practices and technologies include 
cooling and thermal optimization; energy/demand monitoring and management software; heat 
recovery systems t o capture and reuse waste heat generated by data center equipment; energy -
efficient servers, storage devices, and other hardware; and virtualization to reduce the number of 
physical services required.  
Siemens is an industry leader in supporting data center energy efficiency. For example, Siemens 
offer s energy management software , providing data center operators with real -time analytics and 
diagnostic maintenance insights. Siemens’  building management platforms, acting on data from a 
single interface, promote visibility and further efficiency gains. Siemens’ solutions  include  software 
to interface with the interconnecting utility for demand response and reliability support —enabling 
a synergistic relationship between data centers and associated utilities. Machine learning also plays 
5 Alastair Green, et al., How data centers and the energy sector can sate AI’s hunger for power , McKinsey & Company (Sept. 2024), 
https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/private -capital/our -insights/how -data-centers -and-the-energy -sector -can-sate-ais-hunger -for-power.  
6 Id. 


 
10 
 an important role in optimizing energy use by better managing temperature -regulating devices in 
air and water systems.  
  
Additionally, Siemens’ White Space Cooling Optimization uses AI to apply the right amount of 
cooling when and where it is needed among data center racks. For this solution, Siemens deploys a 
network of sensors, cooling unit controls, and an AI engine to dy namically match facility cooling to 
data centers’ real -time IT load. White Space Cooling Optimization addresses the challenges of 
managing processes with minimal on -site staff, while optimizing performance and increasing 
reliability. It is a cost -effective  solution that can be fully deployed in just a few weeks, in almost any 
data center, with minimal on -site intrusion.  
  
Siemens also enables energy efficiency in the planning and design phase of data centers by using 
digital twin software to create, maintain, and visualize digital twins of buildings and infrastructure. 
Digital twins can simulate various data center cooling strategies, optimize server utilization to 
minimize energy waste, and perform predictive maintenance in data center infrastructure to avoid 
potential issues before they l ead to system inefficiencies or failures.  
  
As AI continues to evolve and data centers expand to meet growing computational demands, new 
innovations in energy efficiency technologies will be needed. Siemens stands ready to work with 
experts at the Department of Energy and across the federal governme nt to advance data center 
efficiency. Siemens recommend s the following policy options:  
 
• Energy Efficiency RD&D : The federal government should invest in research, development, and 
deployment (RD&D) initiatives within the Department of Energy and the National Laboratories 
to support new breakthroughs in data center energy efficiency. Potential research areas should 
include advanced cooling technologies, energy management software, demand response 
software, and AI algorithm optimization. Moreover, the Department of Energy should work to 
ensure research uptake and commercialization by developing pilot pr ograms to support next -
gen energy efficiency technologies .   
 
• Private Sector Initiatives to Enable Energy Efficiency Best Practices : Department of Energy -led 
initiatives aimed at facilitating private sector collaboration on energy efficiency, including the 
Better Buildings Initiative, are important  for sharing best practices and enabling partnership 
opportunities. The federal government should continue to support these initiatives and ensure 
they are incorporating the latest innovations in energy efficiency technologies. To encourage 
new innovation,  the Department of Energy could consider creating a contest  to explore new 
energy efficien cy technologies and methods for reduction of power, utilization of waste heat, 
etc.   
 
Ultimately, private and public sector investment in energy efficiency will enable a more resilient 
and scalable foundation for future data center growth.   
 
B. Unlocking the U.S. Energy System’s Full Potential  
 
Over the last two decades, electricity demand growth in the U.S. has mostly been stagnant. Today, 
analysts are projecting that nationwide demand could rise 128 GW over the next five years, an 
increase of 8.2 percent.7 Most of this demand in the short -term is coming from new data center 
builds and manufacturing.  
 
7 John D. Wilson, et al., Strategic Industries Surging: Driving US Power Demand , Grid Strategies (Dec. 2024), 
https://gridstrategiesllc.com/wp -content/uploads/National -Load -Growth -Report -2024.pdf.  


11 A central issue in the AI race is whether the U.S. energy system will be able to generate enough 
electricity to power —and effectively manage —new data center loads. There are many potential 
roadblocks. Much of the existing transmission and distribution infr astructure in the U.S. lacks 
capacity to manage increasing load. New energy generation is difficult to permit and  to come 
online, with over  two terawatts of new generation and storage projects waiting in interconnection 
queues.8 Moreover, significant financial investment is required to build new power plants, upgrade 
existing infrastructure, and integrate renewable energy sources. Valid challenges around ratepayer 
equity and how to finance this multi -terawatt infrastructure are further clouding the path to 
infrastructure buildout and risking the time -sensitive realization of additional power, energy, and 
transmission infrastructure on the grid.  
As noted above, access to power is emerging as a critical bottleneck for new data center builds, 
and data center operators are contending with grid constraints. This results from a mismatch 
between the development period for a typical greenfield data cente r and the time required to 
complete associated interconnection studies and infrastructure upgrades, which can span as long 
as four to eight years.9 Researchers found lead times for interconnection are the foremost 
consideration for data center operators when building new sites .10 
The federal government can play a critical role in addressing energy system challenges, including 
by exploring the following policy options : 
•Convening Energy and Data Center Stakeholders : The Department of Energy should convene
data center developers and operators, energy utilities, technology companies, and other key
stakeholders to develop a roadmap to address energy supply bottlenecks and develop
strategies to promote U.S. AI leadership. These convenings should address  critical permitting
and regulatory framework challenges —and should develop solutions to accelerate the pace of
AI and data center infrastructure buildout.
•Grid Modernization : The federal government should facilitate investments in grid infrastructure
modernization and smart grid technologies and assess opportunities for reconductoring and
integration of grid -enhancing technologies, including dynamic line rating, to increase the
power carrying capacity of existing transmission infrastructure .
•Enabling DER Solutions : Microgrids, onsite battery storage, and other distributed energy
solutions (DERs) can support data center resilience and enable data centers to provide critical
grid services. The Department of Energy should evaluate these technologies and offer technical
assistance to grid stakeholders to support novel backup power strategies and leverage its
technical expertise to work with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, states, and grid
stakeholders to formulate frameworks and best prac tices to support such innovation. The
Department of Energy should examine how utilities and data center operators can
synergistically control energy supply to maximize resilience through software technologies for
demand management and microgrid ramping and  control strategies .
•Facilitating Co -location of Energy Infrastructure : Facing grid constraints, data center
developers have moved quickly to identify creative ways to develop on -site generation and grid
8 Joseph Rand, et al., Queued Up: 2024 Edition , Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (April 2024), 
https://emp.lbl.gov/sites/default/files/2024 -04/Queued%20Up%202024%20Edition_1.pdf.  
9 Vivian Lee, et al., Breaking Barriers to Data Center Growth , BCG (Jan. 2025), https://web -assets -pdf.bcg.com/prod/breaking -barriers -data-
center -growth.pdf.  
10 Green, supra  note 5.  


12 infrastructure. The Department of Energy should consult with states, utilities, data center 
developers, and other stakeholders to identify the regulatory, financial, and technical 
constraints for effective co -location of energy assets. As with the recommen dation above, the 
Department of Energy should seek to develop frameworks and best practices to support 
innovative co -location methods .  
•Accelerating Interconnection : The Department of Energy and National Laboratories should
promote RD&D, pilot programs, and technical assistance initiatives to foster AI and software
solutions aimed at streamlining grid interconnection processes and associated planning
studies .
•Supporting Energy System Planning : The Department of Energy and the National Laboratories
should work with technology companies to develop and promote planning tools for projecting
future infrastructure needs to support data centers and other large loads (recognizing both
potential load gro wth and flexibility) and to expand technical support to state energy and
utility planning departments .
Notably, Siemens is well -positioned to address some of the critical energy system challenges 
outlined above. Siemens’ comprehensive software portfolio includes advanced grid software 
products, IoT -based applications, grid automation and protection solution s, as well as teams of 
software engineers, solutions architects, AI/ML experts, and project managers all with utility 
industry expertise. Siemens  software helps utilities leverage real -time grid data, cloud -based 
simulations, and AI to better plan, operate , and manage their grids —thus enabling utilities to 
optimize their investment and get the most out of their existing grid infrastructure. Moreover, 
Siemens helps deploy and manage distributed energy systems, including microgrids, which  can be 
leveraged by data center operators to support energy resilience and provide critical grid services. 
Lastly, Siemens Financial Services  – the company’s  investment arm  – is driving private sector 
capital to critical energy generation, battery storage, and carbon capture projects.  
Looking ahead, Siemens hopes to work closely with the federal government, states, and other key 
stakeholders to meet energy demand growth and secure U.S. AI leadership . 
Advancing AI-Enabled Digital Twins for National Security Impact  
The integration of artificial intelligence in manufacturing is not only transforming industrial capabilities 
but also strengthening national security. Advanced AI technologies enhance efficiency, improve 
quality control, and optimize supply chain operations, making the manufacturing sector more resilient 
and competitive. This resilience ensures the U.S. can  produce critical defense materials and 
technologies domestically .  
Digital twin s leverage  highly monitored data from sensors, machines,  and Industrial AI  to design, 
simulate, and optimize production in the digital world before taking action in the real world. This  
cutting -edge technology  helps manufacturers  or all sizes and disciplines to tackle industry’s biggest 
challenges, and it’s happening right here in the U.S.   
Digitalization adoption allows for a comprehensive suite of products and operations to be  fully 
integrated  in a digital backbone of operational data via the Industrial Metaverse. The Industrial 
Metaverse is a world powered by  Industrial  AI, where real machines and factories, buildings and cities, 
grids and transportation systems are mirrored in the virtual world. In a digital environment, problems 
can be identified , analyzed, and fixed quickly – or better yet, discovered before they arise . Siemens 


 
13 
 brings  this capability to the national security  environment  and is ushering in the next generation of 
technologies that should be utilized for natio nal security.   
 
Additionally, through digitalization , a Digital Product Passport  is possible and  functions as a digital 
record for product s, documenting their entire lifecycle, from the initial sourcing of raw materials 
throughout production  and recycling. It contains information about the product 's composition, 
manufacturing, performance, and resources required for production . The information can be accessed 
for example , through a QR -code and can help to increase transparency and accountability in an array 
of industries .  
 
• Modernizing National Defense with Digital Twins : To fully modernize the federal government, the 
Department of Defense , DoD program offices , and other relevant agencies  should utilize industry -
proven digital twin solutions to enhance national security and optimization of the defense 
community. More broadly, digitalization  should be incorporated into the overall modernization 
strategy of the federal government  to improve efficiency and streamline productivity across the 
federal ecosystem.  
 
Bolstering the Workforce  
 
Major technology developments raise questions for workers, especially in the realm of AI applications . 
As the federal government  considers how to ensure AI enhances the American economy, Industrial AI 
stands as a testament to the potential for technology to galvanize the workforce instead of replacing  
it. Industrial AI expands what is humanly possible, creating more opportunities for workers of all skill 
levels and providing growth opportunities  at all stages of their careers . 
 
When  applied in manufacturing settings, Generative Industrial AI (Gen AI)  is making technologies more 
intuitive  by allowing  workers  to ‘speak’ to machines using natural language instead of code.  Siemens 
has led the industry in this area, deploying the first Gen AI -powered assistant, or ‘copilot’, for industrial 
operations.  For experienced workers, industrial copilots help them with more repetitive task s, so they 
can spend more time innovating and making decisions. For new hires, industrial copilots help people 
start manufacturing jobs without specialized skills. This can bring new people into the workforce, 
helping fill more of America’s 500,000 open position s in manufacturing.  
 
To maximize Industrial AI’s positive impact for the American workforce, the administration can 
prioritize several areas, including:  
 
• Investing in Workforce Development : To close gaps in the  domestic  manufacturing workforce, the 
administration must invest in the workforce development programs necessary for  today and the 
future. From  high school STEM classes  to university laboratories , institutions  are developing 
curricul a to tackle real -world challenges through programs that teach both technical and career 
skills. This collective action is exactly what it takes to develop the digital talent required  for 
continued U.S. leadership in techno logy and industry . Workforce development programs  – rangi ng 
from apprenticeships to WIOA initiatives to on -the-job training  – must incorporate a strong focus 
on advanced manufacturing jobs , leveraging Gen AI to boost  a stronger skilled workforce for the 
domestic manufacturing sector.  
 
• Building Meaningful Partnerships Across the Ecosystem : As is the case with many solutions, 
partnership is the new leadership. The strongest workforce successes will occur when industry, 
academia, and the government work together to support skills  cultivation from the student level 
throughout the rest of their careers. There are numerous  collaborative efforts across the country 


14 working to  address critical labor shortages and rapidly shifting skill demands. As an example, 
Siemens recently kicked off a microcredentialing program with the University of Colorado Boulder 
and Pennsylvania State University to credential students and recognize car eer readiness, thereby 
creating a stronger pipeline of engineering talent demanded by industry. The se credentials are 
intended to supplement a formal degree by validating industry knowledge and skills. The 
administration must prioritize support f or these cross -sector partnerships to propel innovative 
solutions for closing the skills gap and driving job creation for the future.  
Prioritizing Strong Digital Trade Protections  
Federal leaders  can further  advance Industrial AI by prioritizing strong rules for digital trade, especially 
by upholding and advancing strong protections for source code and algorithms. Policymakers should  
build upon the success of U.S. -led efforts to protect intellectual property, prevent forced data 
localization, and oppose the use of customs duties on electronic transfers  within sectoral trade 
agreements and full Free Trade Agreements. Such support for innovation and U.S. technology from 
the U.S. government gives industry the confidence and protections to serve global markets . These 
priorities have built the foundation of an ecosystem where American -driven technology can compete, 
grow , and innovate in the  global economy. By remaining committed to strong digital trade 
protections, the U.S. can propel Industrial AI applications to enable all companies – including startups, 
small - and medium -sized  enterprises, and industrial giants – to thrive in this new era for American 
manufacturing.  
Conclusion  
Siemens is committed to advancing U.S. manufacturing and pioneering the future of industrial 
technology. Industrial AI is essential to digitalizing the manufacturing sector, growing domestic 
capacity, and achieving the administration’s core priorities of e conomic dominance and national 
security. As federal leaders  seek to solidify and enhance American technology leadership, Siemens 
looks forward to continued opportunities for guiding these efforts to fortify the innovation ecosystem, 
strengthen data center supply chains, and harness the full potential of Industrial AI to revolutionize the 
next generation of American manufacturing.  
Respectfully submitted: 
Siemens USA  
200 Massachusetts Ave NW, Suite 600  
Washington, D.C. 20001  
For more information, please contact Pooja Patel , 


