SIIA.NET  Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan, 90 Fed. Reg. 9088 (Feb. 6, 2025) 
Submission of the Software & Information Industry Association (SIIA)1 
March 14, 2025 
The Software & Information Industry Association (SIIA) appreciates the opportunity to 
respond to the Trump Administration’s Request for Information on the Development 
of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan “to promote human flourishing, economic 
competitiveness, and national security.”2  
SIIA’s nearly 400 members, including creators of software and platforms used by 
millions worldwide, are at the forefront of artificial intelligence innovation. Our 
member companies range from global leaders in AI models and applications, 
companies specializing in data analytics and information services, academic and 
scientific publishers, education technology companies, and the global financial 
information and market data community. 
SIIA commends President Trump for prioritizing the development of an AI Action 
Plan to ensure that the United States maintains and strengthens its position as the 
global leader in AI.3 Actions taken during President Trump’s first term, including the 
seminal 2019 executive order, Maintaining American Leadership in Artificial 
Intelligence ,4 helped to foster significant advancements in AI models and 
applications and fortify American leadership globally. Continued leadership in AI 
requires proactive federal policy to harness the remarkable potential of AI-driven 
technologies and advance U.S. economic interests while responding to new 
geopolitical challenges and national security risks. 
1 This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
2 Executive Order 14179, Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence  
(Jan. 23, 2025). 
3 Executive Order 14179, Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence  
(Jan. 23, 2025). 
4 Executive Order 13859, Maintaining American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence  (Feb. 11, 2019).  


SIIA AI Action Plan Submission 
March 14, 2025 
2 
Our recommendations focus on unlocking and supercharging American innovation 
and advancing American national security and economic interests. We organize our 
recommendations in five categories: (1) Governance, (2) Global Leadership, (3) 
Workforce and Education, (4) Infrastructure, and (5) Federal AI Adoption. Each of 
these domains requires concrete policy actions to sustain America’s AI dominance 
while safeguarding the public interest. We commend the Administration’s early 
prioritization of AI policy.  
(1)Policy Actions to Promote Innovation through Smart Governance
Realizing the potential of AI and unleashing innovation also requires attention to 
governance. We define governance to include practices, policies, frameworks, and 
technical standards in addition to formal laws and regulations. SIIA has long 
recommended a light-touch approach to laws and regulations, and an emphasis on 
voluntary frameworks, best practices, and market-driven solutions – as President 
Trump called for in the 2019 AI executive order – that will reinforce “trust and 
confidence in AI technologies.5 Actions taken by the federal government will have an 
impact on state AI policy and on AI regulatory efforts overseas. The AI Action Plan 
should advance measures to preempt onerous and inconsistent (whether confusing 
or conflicting between states or federally) state legislation and support America’s AI 
leadership on the global stage. Doing so will advance adoption of American AI 
systems and applications domestically and around the world.  
SIIA continues to encourage the Administration to pursue a light-touch, risk-based 
approach to AI governance grounded in standards and best practices. This will 
ensure the United States addresses real risks while preserving the innovation 
environment that has made America the world leader in AI. By resisting overbroad or 
premature regulation, the Administration will foster an atmosphere where 
companies can innovate with confidence that compliance burdens will not arbitrarily 
derail their efforts. Facilitating risk-based, innovation-friendly approach is a 
cornerstone of maintaining our global AI leadership.  
5  Executive Order 13859, Maintaining American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence  (Feb. 11, 
2019).  


SIIA AI Action Plan Submission 
March 14, 2025 
3 
Formalize the American Model of AI Governance 
●Prioritize Standards and Transparency Measures for AI Governance. The AI
Action Plan should prioritize voluntary, risk-based frameworks and technical
standards as the bedrock of AI governance for U.S. companies. The
government should encourage voluntary frameworks, industry best practices,
and sector-specific guidelines that can adapt to the varied contexts in which
AI is deployed. As part of this, the AI Action Plan should empower NIST to
continue to be a focal point for public-private collaboration and the
development of risk-based guidance. NIST’s leadership has proven to be
extremely influential in improving the quality of U.S.-developed AI models and
in shaping the direction of governance in international forums and in foreign
nations.6
●Focus on Risk-Based Oversight: Any regulatory intervention should beproportional to the level of risk posed by a particular AI application and should
only be undertaken when a gap has been identified in existing laws and
regulations. Many AI related concerns are already addressed in existing law,
however high-impact use cases may warrant guidance or standards specific
to that sector. Conversely, “low risk” uses should face minimal if any
regulatory burden.  These use cases must be articulated in sufficient detail for
clarity to avoid over-capture, while leaving some flexibility for evolving and
edge case examples. This calibrated approach aligns with existing industry
approaches. We applaud the bipartisan consensus emerging in Congress
(such as the recommendations of the House Bipartisan AI Task Force) that
emphasizes building trust in AI through targeted measures rather than broad
mandates.
●Invest in Measurement Science. We recommend that the AI Action Plan directthe Secretary of Commerce to advance NIST’s efforts to develop
measurement science applicable to AI technologies. This work has received
considerable attention globally, but much more is needed to advance the
science needed to develop robust technical standards to guide future AI
models and applications, consistent with Secretary Lutnick’s vision, as stated
in his confirmation hearing, to establish the “gold standard” for AI as the United
States has done for cybersecurity. Continuation of public-private engagement
will be important.
●Promote Sector-Specific AI Guidelines: SIIA supports tailored, sector-specificpolicies to address unique challenges in AI development and deployment.
Different sectors face unique challenges with AI. We recommend that various
agencies work with stakeholders to issue sector-specific guidelines or
6 National Institute for Standards and Technology, AI Risk Management Framework  (January 
26, 2023). 


SIIA AI Action Plan Submission 
March 14, 2025 
4 
standards for AI, rather than one omnibus AI regulation. This ensures 
expertise-driven oversight where needed, and no unnecessary rules where 
risks remain low. A central body in the federal government, located at NIST or 
within OSTP, should serve as a coordinator to reduce overlap and ensure 
consistency. We continue to support Chief AI Officers at each agency. 
●Seek, As Needed, Targeted Use-Based Restrictions: Many areas of potentialconcern involving the application of AI are adequately met by existing legal
frameworks.7 Nevertheless, as this Administration has recognized, AI has
enabled new categories of harm that require targeted approaches. Case in
point is the scourge of deepfake pornography. SIIA is a supporter of the Take
It Down Act , a measure renewed in this Congress that the First Lady has
championed, as this sort of targeted approach.8
Lead on National Security Testing for Frontier Models 
●Establish a Focal Point for Public-Private Collaboration on Frontier Model
Security Testing and Evaluation: SIIA has been a strong advocate for
authorizing a body in the federal government to lead a coordinated approach
to AI security issues with a focus on frontier models. Legislation in the 118th
Congress, including S. 4178, the Future of AI Innovation Ac t and H.R. 9497, the
AI Advancement and Reliability Act , proposed to establish a center in the
Executive Branch to lead a coordinated approach and public-private
collaboration on AI security, with a focus on frontier models. We recommend
the AI Action Plan endorse and help to codify such a body. Doing so is
essential to avoid ceding global leadership to foreign jurisdictions and to
preempt state legislation that, in the absence of clear federal attention, may
lead to onerous regulations and liability risk that will kneecap AI innovation.
●Support a “Home Testing” Principle with Like-Minded Nations: Industry hasconcerns that foreign nations may seek to impose safety or security
requirements on AI models or AI applications developed or deployed by U.S.-
based firms notwithstanding conformity with voluntary AI security standards
endorsed by the United States. Indeed, we are already seeing signs of this. If
this loose arrangement is allowed to continue, it may restrict the ability of U.S.-
based companies to access foreign markets, whether due to legitimate
concerns with the AI models or applications or to privilege foreign forms. The
AI Action Plan should direct appropriate officials in Executive Office of the
7 See, e.g., Joint Statement on Enforcement Efforts Against Discrimination and Bias in 
Automated Systems (April 25, 2023).  
8 S. 146, Take it Down Act  (119th Cong.); Readout from First Lady Melania Trump’s Roundtable 
Discussion on Online Protection and the Take it Down Act  (Mar. 3, 2025); SIIA, Statement on 
Take it Down Act  (Dec. 4, 2024).  


SIIA AI Action Plan Submission 
March 14, 2025 
 
 
5 
President, Department of Commerce, and Department of State to negotiate 
an understanding with like-minded nations that have established institutes for 
AI security testing to defer to testing undertaken by an AI developer or 
deployer’s country of origin, unless otherwise agreed to by that AI developer 
or deployer. 
Advance a Unified, National Approach to AI Policy 
● Federal Preemption: State legislatures are actively looking to pass broad measures to regulate high-risk AI across the economy. Though only Colorado 
has thus far enacted a broad AI act, we are likely to see at least half a dozen 
more laws this year on both frontier model safety and high-risk AI. These will 
raise a host of conflicts – from definitions to enforcement to scope – that will 
make the “privacy patchwork” seem simple in contrast. SIIA has concerns that 
proliferation of state legislation will impose onerous and inconsistent 
regulatory and product approval burdens on industry that impede innovation, 
create untenable compliance challenges, hinder adoption, and make it harder 
for consumers, business, and government to reap the benefits of the AI 
revolution. SIIA urges the Administration to formalize its approach to AI policy, 
oversight, and frontier model security, and to work with Congress to draft and 
pass a federal law to preempt state legislation on AI safety and security. SIIA 
also urges federal efforts to support harmonization of state approval and 
procurement rules that create 50+ review rubrics, application restrictions, and 
bureaucratic processes that will create duplicative but often inconsistent and 
even conflicting requirements that may unnecessarily slow adoption.  
Advance Intellectual Property Policies that Support Innovation 
● The Current IP Framework Fuels AI Innovation: SIIA urges the Administration to affirm that existing intellectual property laws are sufficient to govern AI 
technologies, and to resist calls for sweeping new IP restrictions that could 
hamper AI development. America’s copyright, patent, and trade secret laws 
have a long track record of adapting to new technologies, and they are well 
suited to do so for AI as well. Indeed, American companies large and small are 
investing heavily in AI under the current IP framework – a sign that the 
incentives to innovate remain strong. The Administration should preserve this 
environment. We encourage continued dialogue between policymakers, 
industry, and the creative community on specific IP concerns, but believe the 
default approach should be to apply current law to new tech. By doing so, we 
maintain the legal continuity and predictability that underpin U.S. 
technological leadership. 
● Clarify Patent Procedures: It is critical that the administration protect and improve upon the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office’s (PTO) Inter Partes 
Review program to permit efficient review of AI patents that did not meet the 


SIIA AI Action Plan Submission 
March 14, 2025 
6 
statutory requirements. Some estimate that the agency error rate is as high as 
40 percent for software. Increasing patent applications around AI will lead to 
mistakes in the same way that invalid claims around ordinary activity “on a 
computer” improperly burdened both the courts and our members’ research 
and development. To avoid creating the same problem in AI development, 
businesses should have access to the inter partes procedure for those patents 
that they have shown are of dubious quality (as the statute demands).  Merit 
must be the touchstone of that review, and overbroad discretionary denial 
(such as that set forth in the Fintiv case) should be avoided.9  Similarly, to be 
effective, the process must be properly staffed—PTO’s Patent Trial and 
Appeal board should continue to be maintained with the user fees that 
currently fund it. Otherwise, foreign entities can use these poor-quality 
patents to hamstring American AI development by draining resources better 
spent on research and development and subjecting trade secret information 
to discovery and creating innovation bottlenecks for businesses large and 
small. 
●Protect Access to Publicly Available Information: Over the past several years,we have seen concerted efforts at the federal and state level to limit the use
of publicly available information (PAI). While intended to restrict the ability of
“data brokers” to sell personal information to third parties, in practice these
restrictions would have a significant impact on innovation by limiting the use
of PAI to train AI models and assist in law enforcement and national security
needs.10 In seeking to limit bad actors, policymakers should be sure that they
do not hamstring legitimate uses of AI in law enforcement, fraud detection,
and similar valuable activity.
9 See Apple Inc. v. Fintiv, Inc. , Case IPR2020-00019 (Mar. 20, 2020). 
10 Paul Lekas and Anton van Seventer, The American Privacy Rights Act’s Hidden AI Ban , 
Techdirt.com (Oct. 29, 2024).  


SIIA AI Action Plan Submission 
March 14, 2025 
7 
(2)Policy Actions to Advance American AI Leadership Globally
Maintaining U.S. global AI leadership means competing and winning in the 
international arena; therefore, we must ensure U.S. companies can thrive globally. 
Many of our member companies operate globally, and we feel that minimizing 
barriers will empower them to continue doing so. Whether through trade 
negotiations, diplomatic engagement, or strategic use of U.S. influence in global 
forums, we urge the Administration to be an advocate for fair treatment of American 
AI. 
SIIA believes that advancing American AI leadership globally requires a two-
pronged approach, one that both promotes American AI and one that protects the 
United States from national security threats. We provide the following 
recommendations to achieve this. 
●Use Diplomacy to Advance U.S. Soft Power: AI technologies are not value free.The American AI industry has built models and AI-driven technologies that by
and large reflect core views about security, censorship, and surveillance that
readily differentiate those AI tools from a competitor such as DeepSeek. We
believe the United States is on the cusp of a moment not unlike the one that
Huawei presented during the prior Trump Administration. Then, the
Administration used the tools of statecraft to build a coalition of over 60
countries committed to supporting digital trust and addressing tech-driven
threats by malign authoritarian actors.11 U.S. national security and economic
interests demand similar leadership today. Accordingly, we recommend that
the AI Action Plan direct the State Department to lead a similar effort focused
on AI and other emerging technologies.
●Targeted Export Controls: To maintain our edge over strategic rivals, the U.S.must carefully calibrate its export control policies. SIIA supports the
Administration’s focus on denying adversaries (namely China) access to the
most advanced semiconductor chips and manufacturing equipment used for
AI. However, we caution against broad new controls on AI software, cloud
services, or trained AI models, which would be difficult to enforce and could
handicap U.S. industry more than our rivals. SIIA has previously voiced that
existing proposals to restrict cloud computing services or AI model access
would pose unworkable implementation challenges and will give China a leg-
up in the global AI competition.
●Champion American AI Globally and Defend Against Unfair Foreign Barriers:The U.S. must pair its domestic AI strategy with assertive international
engagement to ensure American AI firms can compete on a level playing field
11 U.S. Department of State, Fact Sheet: The Clean Network Safeguards America’s Assets . 
(Aug. 11, 2020). 


SIIA AI Action Plan Submission 
March 14, 2025 
8 
worldwide. SIIA recommends that the Administration push back on foreign 
regulations that unfairly target U.S. tech companies. American leadership in AI 
is not only about being the best at home, but also about setting the “rules of 
the road” for AI internationally in a way that reflects democratic values and 
open markets. To accomplish this, the AI Action Plan should recommend that 
the President direct a small number of officials to lead in tech diplomacy, 
create a public-private advisory board, and advance a consistent message 
reflecting input from industry. 
(3)Policy Actions to Cultivate the Workforce and Leaders of Tomorrow
AI has the potential to help personalize learning at scale, assist teachers in 
identifying and remediating where students need help, and open up new pathways 
for AI engineering and other skills development. It also poses challenges, but we 
believe a combination of policy guidance and public-private collaboration will 
maximize AI’s benefits for learners of all ages. By investing in AI for education and 
workforce training, the U.S. can both cultivate the next generation of AI leaders and 
users, leverage AI to increase learning access and success, and ensure that our 
workforce can adapt to AI-driven changes. In doing so, we will secure a future where 
the American workforce can become the most AI-proficient in the world, driving 
productivity and growth.  
●Prepare America’s Workforce and Students for an AI Future: Thetransformative power of AI should be harnessed to strengthen education and
build the workforce of tomorrow. Schools should integrate AI and digital
literacy into both education and workforce development programs to equip
citizens with the knowledge and skills to thrive in the economy of tomorrow
and strengthen U.S. economic and national security in the long term. The AI
Action Plan should direct the Departments of Commerce and Education to
lead in convening education, government, and private sector stakeholders to
further develop and support adoption of AI skills standards and provide
guidance to education leaders and workforce development programs.
●Facilitate Integration of AI and EdTech in Classrooms: The potential for AI-assisted teaching and learning is extraordinary. The federal government has a
unique ability to convene experts and encourage and facilitate adoption at the
state and local level across agencies, education institutions, and education
and training programs and providers. Highlighting exemplars, funding teacher
and trainer professional development in the use of AI and otherwise helping
the sector to address questions and concerns can help enhance impact.
●Expand Access to Education Technology and Connectivity: To take advantageof AI, all students must have access to modern technology. SIIA recommends
the Administration support programs and funding that will help state and local
authorities and education and training institutions to adopt education


SIIA AI Action Plan Submission 
March 14, 2025 
9 
technology that incorporates AI. For example, the AI Action Plan should call 
for continued support for the FCC’s E-Rate program that is so critical to ensure 
schools and libraries have high-speed internet connectivity, as connectivity is 
the backbone of AI-enabled learning.  
●Promote AI Workforce Training and Upskilling: The Administration should
support programs to train the U.S. workforce for AI. Further, the Administration
should also launch or look to expand programs that use AI to train the U.S.
workforce. Public-private partnerships can create apprenticeship programs in
AI. With many U.S. employers, and the government, facing AI talent shortages,
these steps will both fill high-demand AI jobs and help existing workers
transition to new roles in an AI-rich economy. The AI Action Plan should direct
the Secretary of Labor to focus on developing apprenticeship programs to
prepare Americans for these positions. Ensuring the workforce is adequately
skilled in AI will be instrumental to ensuring continued American leadership in
AI.
●Support Teachers and Protect Students: Teachers should receive professionaldevelopment on incorporating AI tools and literacy into lesson plans,
assessments, curriculum, and instruction. At the same time, federal policy
must reinforce general student and other relevant data privacy and security
policies that now protect students and will build public trust when integrating
AI into education. This includes recognizing and defining the limited use cases
where AI-enabled education and training decisions are high-risk and would
benefit from a degree of human oversight.
(4)Policy Actions to Create Infrastructure Needed for Continued AI Leadership
Achieving AI leadership requires massive computational infrastructure – from data 
centers and cloud computing clusters to the energy grids that power them. The U.S. 
government should proactively support the build-out of AI infrastructure and ensure 
our energy policy accommodates the surging demand for computing power. By 
ensuring that developers have access to the resources, data centers, and electricity 
they require, the U.S. will provide a foundation on which our AI leadership can 
continue to grow.  
●Expand Energy Supply and Optimize Power Grid: The rapid advances in AI willrequire energy far outstripping available supply.12 The AI Action Plan should
direct efforts to expand and upgrade U.S. energy capacity. This includes
accelerating permits for new power generation and modernizing the electric
grid to handle high-density computing loads. The Administration’s recent
12 See, e.g., SemiAnlaysis, AI Datacenter Energy Dilemma - Race for AI Datacenter Space  
(Mar. 13, 2024); Berkeley Lab Energy Analysis & Environmental Impacts Division, 2024 United 
States Data Center Energy Usage Report  (Dec. 2024).  


SIIA AI Action Plan Submission 
March 14, 2025 
 
 
10 
declaration of a “national energy emergency” to fast-track data center power 
projects is a bold step in recognizing this challenge. Ensuring accessible and 
affordable electricity for AI computation will support not only tech hubs but 
also regional economic development as data center investments spread to 
new areas. 
● Streamline Data Center Development: To keep pace with AI innovation, America must dramatically expand its high-performance computing facilities. 
This will require streamlined approval and permitting processes for building 
new data centers and treating them as critical infrastructure. The 
Administration should explore innovative approaches to public-private 
collaboration that incentivize the private sector to build and onshore data 
centers to enable AI growth necessary to dominate this technological 
category. The AI Action Plan should, among other things, direct the creation of 
a public-private advisory body to collaborate on concrete measures the 
federal government should take to advance data center development. 
● Support Open Innovation and Research: While the U.S. has an edge in AI innovation and AI research, the federal government must take steps to ensure 
that the U.S. advantage holds for the foreseeable future. We recommend the 
AI Action Plan direct steps to promote open innovation and foster research 
collaboration. This includes creating shared compute and data resources, 
such as is contemplated by the National AI Research Resource;13 making 
accessible government data sets to drive AI innovation; harnessing the 
potential of the National Laboratories, including, potentially, through the 
bipartisan FASST initiative;14 and supporting the adoption, where appropriate, 
of open-source AI models.15 
  
 13 National Artificial Intelligence Research Resource (NAIRR) Task Force, Strengthening and 
Democratizing the U.S. Artificial Intelligence Ecosystem  (Jan. 2023); SIIA, RFI Response: NAIRR 
Interim Report , (Jul. 7, 2022).  
14 S.4664, Department of Energy AI Act  (118th Cong.); SIIA, Comments on Department of 
Energy Request for Information on Frontiers in AI for Science, Security, and Technology 
(FAAST) Initiative , (Nov. 11 2024).  
15 National Telecommunications & Information Administration, Dual-Use Foundation Models 
with Widely Available Model Weights  (Jul. 2024); SIIA, Response to NTIA’s Request for 
Comment Regarding Dual Use Foundation Artificial Intelligence Models and Widely 
Available Model Weights  (Mar. 27, 2024).  


SIIA AI Action Plan Submission 
March 14, 2025 
11 
(5)Policy Actions to Accelerate Federal AI Adoption
Overhaul Outdated Procurement Regulations and Processes 
A “whole-of-government” effort to embrace AI – underpinned by agile procurement 
and enlightened IT investment – is essential for U.S. global AI leadership. SIIA urges 
agile acquisition practices that mirror commercial best practices and streamline how 
agencies buy and implement AI solutions. Current procurement rules and lengthy 
contracting cycles often discourage innovative AI startups from bidding on federal 
projects – as noted in the National Security Commission on AI’s report, “bureaucratic 
snarls deter companies from working with DoD; it is economically irrational for many 
startups to even try.”16 That statement, made in 2021, remains an accurate 
assessment of the situation today. By modernizing procurement in the following 
ways, the federal government can rapidly integrate state-of-the-art AI solutions into 
public-sector missions. Accelerating federal AI adoption not only improves 
government efficiency and services but also serves as a market signal that 
encourages domestic AI innovation.  
●Simplify and Expedite AI Acquisitions: The AI Action plan should enable pilotprograms and rapid procurement mechanisms for AI technologies. This will
lower barriers for small, innovative firms and allow agencies to test and
deploy AI solutions in months rather than years. We support the Executive
Order’s directive to revise OMB’s guidance on AI acquisition to eliminate
barriers to AI adoption. The OMB guidance should be amended to focus on
truly high-risk systems and enable rapid acquisition and deployment of
technologies that fall under that threshold.
●Adopt Commercial Cloud and Hybrid Infrastructure: The AI Action plan shoulddirect agencies to utilize secure commercial cloud services and hybrid
government-commercial cloud environments for AI. Commercial cloud
platforms provide on-demand scalability and cutting-edge AI tools that can
accelerate federal modernization. Policies should promote interoperability
standards and hybrid cloud models that enhance resiliency of federal systems
while avoiding redundant, siloed infrastructure across agencies.
●Eliminate Barriers for Startup and SME Participation: The AI Action Plan shoulddirect alignment of procurement criteria with industry standards to minimize
onerous compliance burdens that disproportionately impact small businesses.
As the NSCAI recommended, it will take top-level leadership to focus
agencies on adopting new technologies and overcome “antiquated
processes.” We urge the Administration to include targeted recommendations
16 National Security Commission on AI Final Report , at 62 (Mar. 1, 2021) 


SIIA AI Action Plan Submission 
March 14, 2025 
12 
to Congress to engage in procurement reform that makes it easier for startups 
and non-traditional vendors to offer AI products to the government. 
●Hire AI Talent in Government and Empower Chief AI Officers: Every major
agency should have a Chief AI Officer (or equivalent) with the mandate to
drive AI adoption and coordinate procurement of AI across the agency. These
officials can identify high-impact use cases, ensure staff are trained to
evaluate AI offerings, and share best practices government-wide. SIIA
supports retaining these roles to provide sustained leadership for federal AI
implementation.17
Accelerate Adoption of AI for National Security Uses 
The Trump Administration should also accelerate the adoption of AI for national 
security missions including at DoD and across the intelligence community. We urge 
a top-down mandate for rapid AI integration across the Department of Defense 
(DoD), Intelligence Community, and homeland security agencies. The Administration 
should direct defense and security leaders to prioritize AI adoption in their plans, 
budgets, and operations. 
To maintain strength and security globally, America’s national security and 
cybersecurity agencies should have the best AI tools at their disposal. We 
appreciate the Administration’s recognition that AI leadership is critical to national 
security, and we encourage making AI adoption a measured criterion of success in 
national security programs. By treating AI integration as a strategic mandate, the U.S. 
will strengthen its security and protect critical infrastructure while further spurring 
the development of cutting-edge AI technologies domestically. 
●Harness AI for Cybersecurity: It is imperative to leverage AI to defend againstincreasingly sophisticated cyber-attacks on government networks and U.S.
critical infrastructure. We encourage federal deployment of AI-driven
cybersecurity tools. For instance, AI can automate threat detection and
incident response much faster than manual methods.
●Adapt AI for Classified Networks: A critical challenge in deploying AI fornational security is ensuring that AI systems can operate effectively at
classified levels. Many cutting-edge AI models and applications are currently
developed and tested in commercial environments, but transitioning these
technologies to classified settings requires significant investment. AI tools
used for intelligence, defense, and cybersecurity must be adapted to
classified infrastructure, meaning they require secure computing
environments, classified data inputs, and rigorous security vetting. However,
17 Bethany Abbate, Chief AI Officers Must be Preserved in the Trump Administration , 
FedScoop (Feb. 18, 2025).  


SIIA AI Action Plan Submission 
March 14, 2025 
13 
these adaptations often involve lengthy and expensive processes, from 
meeting clearance requirements to integrating AI within classified networks. 
Without dedicated funding, many AI innovations will not transition from 
concept to operational use in military and intelligence settings. The AI Action 
Plan should direct DoD, ODNI, and OMB to prepare appropriations requests 
and advocate with Congress for appropriations to adopt AI broadly within the 
national security community. 
●Invest in Data Quality: The government must also invest in data quality andpreparation for national security use cases. AI is only as effective as the data
and information it is trained and deployed on, and national security agencies
hold vast data sets of information that are often fragmented, unstructured, or
inconsistent. To unlock AI’s full potential for threat detection, intelligence
analysis, and operational decision-making, the government must prioritize
large-scale data cleaning, standardization, and structuring efforts. This
includes modernizing legacy data storage systems and investing in AI-
powered tools that can effectively parse intelligence data for machine
learning applications. Without these foundational efforts, AI models will
struggle to generate accurate, actionable insights from national security
datasets.
Conclusion 
SIIA strongly believes that the United States should maintain and extend its global 
leadership in artificial intelligence by pursuing the policy actions outlined above. We 
must lead by example – adopting AI within our own government operations, guiding 
AI’s development with flexible governance, using AI to secure our nation, building 
the infrastructure that AI needs to flourish, training our people to harness AI’s 
potential, protecting the IP regime that underpins innovation, and championing 
American AI ideals on the world stage. These efforts collectively ensure that AI 
innovation and economic growth remain at the cornerstone of policy actions.  
We appreciate the Administration’s commitment to American AI leadership and 
stand ready to assist in crafting policies that will unlock AI's promise for our 
economy, society, and security. By taking balanced actions, the U.S. can expand and 
preserve U.S. leadership in AI which will benefit all Americans.  
Respectfully submitted, 
Paul Lekas 
Senior Vice President, Head of Global Public Policy 
Software & Information Industry Association (SIIA) 
1600 I Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20006 


