1 
March 14, 2025  
Mr. Faisal D’Souza  
National Coordination Office  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
RE: Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), Networking and Information 
Technology Research and Development Program (NITRD) National Coordination 
Office (NCO) and National Science Foundation (NSF) Request for Information concerning AI Action Plan; Silicon Valley Leadership Group Comments  
Dear Mr. D’Souza: 
The Silicon Valley Leadership Group (SVLG) submits the following comments to the Networking 
and Information Technology Research and Development Program National Coordination Office 
(NITRD NCO) regarding the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (Plan). 
SVLG appreciates the opportunity to offer comments and looks forward to working with federal 
leaders throughout the development of the Plan.  
Background  
SVLG was founded in 1977 by one of Silicon Valley’s pioneers, David Packard. Today, the 
organization serves as the most effective and dynamic business association representing the 
Innovation Economy and its ecosystem. Members include global -leading compani es and 
innovative startups. Collectively, member companies account for more than $4 trillion in business activity.  
Infrastructure leadership  
The federal government can take concrete steps to ensure adequate energy for data centers that power AI research, development and deployment. First, federal agencies (e.g., FERC) 
should be granted greater authority to site and permit interstate transmissio n lines deemed to be 
in the national interest and  streamline approval processes. Next, federal policies should be 
implemented to prevent states from enacting discriminatory policies that disproportionately burden data centers. This could include establishing a national standard for data center 
electricity rates and ensuring equal access to economic incentives. Finally, the federal 
government should incentivize the development of a variety of power sources.  


2 Efforts to reduce foreign overregulation and barriers to U.S. innovation 
Foreign governments should not be allowed to impose excessive restrictions on the 
development of US innovation, such as requiring pre- deployment testing of AI models. Policy 
and regulatory leaders should engage with counterparts in the European Union to pu sh back on 
harmful, overreaching regulations, especially around implementation of the EU AI Act and DMA/DSA concerns. Finally, government officials should work to avoid a situation where other 
foreign governments follow these approaches.  
Unified, national and risk -based approach to AI policy 
Federal legislation should preempt state laws regarding the development of frontier AI models. The best approach is to create a unified federal approach to managing the risks of these 
models, while allowing states to address concerns related to high -risk, consumer-facing 
applications where they identify clear gaps. Agencies should be directed to clarify the 
applicability of existing law to AI technology and  reduce the need for duplicative new laws.  
Industry access to publicly available  data 
Balanced copyright rules like fair use and text -and-data mining exceptions enable innovation 
while supporting rightsholders. Allowing AI systems to learn from prior knowledge and publicly 
available  data unlocks scientific breakthroughs and social advances. This avoids uncertain and 
lengthy negotiations with data holders during model development or experimentation.  
Further, specific personal data may be included in publicly available  information. This data 
cannot be removed easily or without impact to quality. Excluding, masking or filtering out 
personal data pulled from the open web from training data could undermine the quality of the 
model, and attempts to remove such information a nd retrain the model would be resource 
intensive and lengthy.  
Transparency disclosures should be feasible and meaningful, and when properly applied, can 
foster trust and accountability. But any rules must be aimed at improving end -user experience, 
avoid disclosure of trade secrets, and not threaten product safety.  
Research leadership  
Academic institutions play a pivotal role in the innovation ecosystem and university -based 
research will fuel the AI breakthroughs of the future. Maintaining U.S. leadership in AI will 
require robust federal investment, including in fundamental research an d computing resources. 
This should include establishing and funding the National AI Research Resource (NAIRR) to ensure broad access to computing power. Further, AI has the potential to radically increase the 
speed of scientific research across disciplines : from accelerating the development of new 
treatments for diseases to quickly creating new materials to be used in future technologies. We 
must ensure that there are necessary resources available so that academia can harness the 


3 power of AI to accelerate scientific discovery. Such technical advances will also empower 
innovators to monetize new technologies for consumers and spur greater economic growth.  
Conclusion 
Thank you for your consideration of these comments. Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any questions or require additional clarification.  
With continued collaboration between policymakers and industry, we can jointly grow America’s 
dominance in artificial intelligence innovation.  
Sincerely,  
Peter Leroe -Muñoz  
General Counsel  
SVP, Technology and Innovation Policy  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential 
information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution.  


4 


