1 
Response to the OSTP Request for Information  
Development of an  Artificial Intelligence  Action Plan  
The Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology  (SIOP) appreciates the opportunity to 
provide the below response  to the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy 
(OSTP) Request for Information (RFI) on the development of an artificial intelligence action 
plan. SIOP is the premier professional association for the science and practice of industrial and 
organizational (I -O) psychology. We are a 9,000+ member organization based in the US. While 
an independent organization with its own governance, SIOP also represents Division 14 of the 
American Psychological Association and is an organizational affiliate of the Association for 
Psychological Science.  
I-O psychology is a dynamic and growing field that addresses workplace issues at the individual,
team, and organizational levels. I -O psychologists apply research that improves the well -being
and performance of people and the organizations that employ them . This involves everything
from workforce planning, selecting employees , and developing leaders  to studying job attitudes
and motivation, implementing work teams, and facilitating organizational change. Particularly
relevant to this RFI , I-O psychologists are also rigorously trained in the development and
evaluation of tests, assessments, and other selection procedures that are used to make hiring and
promotion decisions. Using their expertise, I -O psychologists have been working to improve the
accuracy and effectiveness of selection  procedures for decades.
SIOP’s Subcommittee  on Artificial Intelligence (AI) -Based Assessments was initially launched 
in October 2021  as a task force  to address issues related to the development and implementation 
of AI for assessing and hiring talent and to increase awareness of scientific research on this topic. 
The current subcommittee  comprises SIOP members with expertise in a broad range of related 
areas such as employee selection and assessment, psychometrics and measurement bias, and the 
use of AI-based technologies in the w orkplace. I-O psychologists with this  AI expertise are 
already employed at Fortune 50 companies and leading technology firms. Many in our 
profession are thus well-suited to help address organizational and workforce issues related to 
OSTP development of  an artificial intelligence  action plan .  
Given the increasing prevalence and sophistication of AI-based technologies and systems in the 
modern workplace and the need to ensure greater innovation and effectiveness  in all aspects of 
the American workforce , SIOP encourages  the OSTP national artificial intelligence action 
plan to incorporate  plans for (a) improv ing AI-based hiring  and promotion  decisions and 
(b) accelerat ing a competitive  AI-enabled workforce  that is capable of working effectively
with AI-based tools .


2 
Improving AI-Based Hiring Decisions  
Hiring decisions  are made many thousands of times each day, and many organizations, including 
federal agencies, are looking for ways to make these decisions more accurately, efficiently, and 
cost-effectively to remain competitive in a global economy . To this end, AI  is being increasingly 
incorporated into  the employment screening of job candidates. In this context , a broad range of 
AI technologies and statistical techniques seek to identify patterns in candidate information that 
are predictive of future job performance. At the same time,  there have been increasing calls for 
greater legal scrutiny of AI -based hiring practices , reflecting concerns over privacy, fairness, 
lack of transparency, and the accuracy of AI predictions.  
For many decades, SIOP and the I-O psychologists it represents have developed and 
implemented professional standards for  creating effective and legally defensible employment 
tests. SIOP asserts that AI-based assessments used to make hiring and promotion decisions 
require the same level of scrutiny and should meet the same standards that traditional 
employment tests have been subjected to for decades. In other words, AI-based assessments 
should still be required to meet the standards for traditional hiring and assessment 
procedures, even if different methods are used to meet those standards.  
To guide professionals and inform those responsible for staffing in organizations, the Society for 
Industrial and Organizational Psychology (SIOP) has published the  Principles for the Validation 
and Use of Personnel Selection Procedures  (SIOP, 2018;  hereafter referred to as the  Principles ), 
which is updated regularly to reflect current scientific research and best practices in hiring and 
promotion. This document summarizes the fundamental requirements for selection procedures 
that should guide the evaluation of assessments.  Importantly, these professional guidelines are 
applicable to all selection procedures , including technology -based hiring and promotion 
procedures that incorporate AI, machine learning, and other novel assessment techniques (e.g., 
game-based assessments, evaluation of voice and facial characteristics).  
Although the Principles  are applicable to  all personnel selection procedures , the development 
and use of AI -based procedures  presents unique challenges. To address the unique challenges 
and considerations that arise when using AI -based assessments and hiring procedures, SIOP 
released the Considerations and Recommendations for the Validation and Use of AI -Based 
Assessments for Employee Selection  (SIOP, 2023) . This document provides recommendations 
rather than mandates for the use of AI and notes that the professional judgment of experts on 
hiring and assessment can provide essential additional guidance on the applicability and 
necessity of the specific recommendations provided.  
The  recommendations  released by SIOP on this topic specify four key criteria for evaluating AI -
based assessments:  


 
 
3 
 
1. AI-based assessments should produce scores that predict future job performance or other 
relevant outcomes accurately.  
2. AI-based assessments should produce consistent scores (e.g., upon re -assessment) that 
reflect job -related characteristic s. 
3. AI-based assessments should produce scores that minimize job -irrelevant characteristics 
and are otherwise considered fair and unbiased  for all job applicants . 
4. All steps and decisions relat ed to the development and scoring of AI -based assessments 
should be documented for verification and auditing.  
 
To avoid being unnecessarily burdensome, t hese four key criteria are intended to represent the 
minimal requirements necessary to justify the use of AI -based assessments for hiring and 
promotion decisions.  Most importantly, following these recommendations will not hamper AI 
innovation. Instead, they suggest that innovative AI technologies and approaches should be 
rigorously evaluated before they are used to make high -stakes employment decisions to ensure 
they are accurate, effective, and work as intended.  
 
Accelerating the AI-Enabled Workforce  
 
Understanding how  AI and automation can accelerate the capabilities of the American  workforce 
has never been more critical. AI is rapidly transforming organizations and the goods and services 
they produce. Employees are increasingly  coworking with robots and AI , and AI is becoming 
deeply embedded into their technological and physical workspaces. Such AI w orkforce trends 
demand that employees reskill and adapt at scale . 
 
I-O psychologists have deep expertise and experience in helping US organizations and the 
workforce prepare for AI and other major technological shifts . Assessing job demands and 
developing responsive employee training programs using AI technologies are necessary to 
inform future efforts to reskill employees. As jobs are transformed or replaced, it is also critical 
to understand how American workers can seek out new opportunities and otherwise adapt 
successfully in today’s labor market for the US economy to remain an dominant force . 
Assessing, predicting, interpreting, and improving employee and work team interactions with  
automation and other new technologies is one key example of core I-O training that contributes 
to organizational success . I-O psychologists also have expertise in  developing, implementing, 
and evaluating  effective reskilling  strategies, including identifying current skill needs and 
projecting the skills  that will be important  for the current and future job market . Efficient job 
retraining ca n address the need for lifelong skills education, keep older workers in the workforce, 
and combat talent shortages in areas critical for  innovation and  societal well -being.  
 
In the action plan, SIOP encourages an increased focus  on bolstering the AI -enabled workforce, 
including understanding the changing skills that will be needed . SIOP additionally encourages 
OSTP to include research on improving and disseminating strategies for effective upskilling and 


4 
job training, particularly workplace -based training that allows employees to continue working 
while expanding their job capabilities and skills. Finally, SIOP recommends that OSTP include a 
focus on anticipating and responding to worker mobility needs given  the increased use of AI and 
other automation in the workplace to ensure that workers will not merely remain productive  but 
maximally effective in their contributions to a world -leading US economy . 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution . 
Expert Contacts  
SIOP welcomes the opportunity to submit these comments and provide futher  expertise and 
insight as OSTP seeks to develop the National AI Action Plan. Please reach out to the following 
SIOP issue experts with additional comments or questions:  
Christopher Nye, Ph.D.  
Associate Professor of I -O Psychology, Michigan State University  
Expertise: Employee assessment and hiring , technology -based assessments , and quantitative 
modeling  
Contact: 
Nancy Tippins, Ph.D.  
Principal, The Nancy T. Tippins Group, LLC.  
Expertise:  Staffing and employee selection, standards for tests or assessments used in 
employment contexts  
Contact: 
Fred Oswald, Ph.D.  
Professor of Industrial -Organizational Psychology, Rice University  
Expertise: Skills -based assessment in organizational and educational contexts, AI in human -
technology systems  
Contact:  https://www.linkedin.com/in/fred -oswald/ 
References  
Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology. (2018). Principles for the Validation and 
Use of Personnel Selection Procedures  (5th ed.). Retrieved from: 
https://www.apa.org/ed/accreditation/about/policies/personnel -selection-procedures.pdf . 


5 
Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology. (January 23, 2023). Considerations and 
Recommendations for the Validation and Use of AI -Based Assessments for Employee 
Selection. Retrieved from: https://www.siop.org/Portals/84/SIOP -AI%20Guidelines -
Final-010323.pdf?ver=iwuP4slt7y21h66ELuiPzQ%3d%3d  


