From: Spring Holbrook
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 10:54:35 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the governmentin developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
My name is Spring Holbrook, the following are my opinions regarding the AI Action Plan.AI does not actually help business. It hurts business, and stifles American innovation. AI has
not shown to be capable of doing any jobs that require thought and experience. Any job“done” by AI requires a human to come clean it up and make it presentable which is a wasteof resources and time and pointless.
Also AI’s “data training” requires work done by humans to function at all period. It is not
intelligent. It will not give America the foothold it’s promised. Have any AI companiesactually reported positive gains? Because all I see is a lot of wasted money.
AI will set this country backward. It steals its
 training data from people.  
My suggestions for a concrete plan of action is to include very robust copyright protection for
ANY data used to train any kind of “AI” system. This means paying the people whose data isbeing used. It should never be any kind of priority for the country as a whole. It will not makeus competitive in the world market.
I also have concerns about the security of private data. Allowing AI to access anything it
wants for training only opens the possibilities of Americans being blackmailed for variouspurposes using their stolen data. There should be robust privacy protections as well and harshpenalties for any company that uses this personal data without permission.
Again my name is Spring Holbrook, and those are my thoughts and suggestions in regards to
the AI Action Plan.
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


