From: Stefan Gagne
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 11:40:51 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
The following comment is from Stefan Gagne.  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the governmentin developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
The comment is as follows.
 
The fact that I need to consent to you putting this comment into an AI is quite ironic. Artificial
intelligence, generative AI to be specific, currently is bound to copyright law. It should remainbound to copyright law. Just because content is publicly visible on a webpage does not mean itis free from copyright, and artificial intelligence cannot be trained on that material withoutviolating copyright law. This is not fair use. This is unauthorized monetization of otherpeople's copyrighted materials without express consent.
 
If I was to take a picture of someone painted and put on the web, copy it entirely and put it onmy own website and claim that I created it, that would be an obvious violation of law. Why isit any different if an artificial intelligence does the same thing? Let's say that instead ofliterally copying it, I re-create the entire image down to the finest detail button entirely byhand. That is still a violation of copyright law. Why is it any different if an artificialintelligence does the same thing? The farther down you break this, the law still applies.
 
The idea that an artificial intelligence system can take inspiration and create a similar work inthe same way a human does is not applicable because software cannot have inspiration.Rulings have already gone on record saying that AI generated material cannot be copyrightedbecause no human was involved in its creation, so there is nothing to have inspiration.
If this is considered fair use, if artificial intelligence is allowed to break copyright law in way
that actual humans are not allowed, it's open season on the entire concept of creativity,copyright, and the forward progress of United States culture. If the software is useless withoutbreaking copyright law, then the software is useless and that is that. The government is underno obligation to make open AI profitable by giving them an exclusive loophole not offered toordinary citizens.
You stand on a precipice, where creative work can be stolen and repurposed at will and
without consent. Do not allow this.
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.


If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


