From: Stephanie Shih
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Sunday, March 16, 2025 12:37:22 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening  
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Hello,
I am adding my voice to those who feel Trump's Executive Order 14179 is unnecessary and an  
excuse to legally steal from the work of countless Americans for a technology that is  
overhyped and honestly less needed than those promoting it tout it to be. "Artificial  
Intelligence" - at its core, essentially machine learning by finding the most common patterns in  
the datasets is given and then replicating those patterns - for the use cases that have been given  
for services such as generative AI only steal work AND jobs from hardworking Americans for  
clunky, regurgitated slop. After all, AI - and especially generative AI - is about finding  
common patterns. The common use cases you see from the general public is that it reduces the  
barriers for art and the work of creation (visual, written, auditory, etc) - but art is as much  
about the process as it is the end result. Using generative AI has in fact shown to dumb down  
the brains of countless students using it to write their essays by typing in keywords and letting  
the machine work, because they're no longer actually writing themselves to showcase they  
understand the subject matter.
You are never going to get anything brilliant from it, by dint of exactly how the technology  
works. It's hyped amongst the general public precisely because most people don't understand  
what it actually entails, to their detriment. Hell, we've seen how s &^% the film industry has 
gotten with "playing it safe" by leaning hard into countless remakes and using the same  reliable 
formula. If they're not gonna even invest in actual humans going forward? F &^% lmao at ever 
reviving a Hollywood Golden Age. And this would be true of all sectors. Ideas  are a dime a 
dozen. It's how those ideas are executed that make it valuable. And let me remind  you, again, 
that AI can only regurgitate the most generic s&^% precisely because of how the technology 
works.
And even if, say, this technology and its service is so valuable, then all the moreso that the  data 
being input in to develop the technology should be PROPERLY VALUED AND  
COMPENSATED FOR. If this technology can not work without other people's labor and  
original work, then one must acknowledge that this labor and work is not only necessary but  
valuable and worthwhile. It is moreover NOT fair-use of another person's labor especially  
when taken without consent. If you think a movie you can make is ~so great~ but you don't  
have the skills? Then pitch it to the folks who do! Drive people to invest in it! Compensate the  
people who would work on it properly! People are not entitled to something just because they 
want it.
I have found few use cases where AI does contribute value to the world, mostly in the cases of  
scientific research. Monterey Bay Aquarium's FathomNet, for example, is one of them. They  
use crowd-sourced volunteer work to help train their datasets to better identify marine life to  
further scientific research, but this is the key thing. The images they use are their own  
intellectual property, the work training it is volunteered and therefore also consented to, and  
thus, there is no theft involved. And the purpose itself actually is valuable, unlike the s&^%


OpenAI hypes itself up with.
*&^% Trump and *&^% this Executive Order. Obviously Trump sees no wrong in stealing 
the labor of thousands of people - he had a history of not paying contractors and others who 
have done work for him in his long history as a businessman after all - but I for one don't 
want my own labor and the labor of countless others free for the taking without my consent. I 
refuse to allow my intellectual property to be stolen.
Signed,
A Disgruntled Programmer and Artist
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


