Machine learning, the technology which has lately been referred to as “AI”, is awful for many reasons. 
It enables low -effort fraud on a scale which has never existed before, as well as making deception for 
political purposes far easier by allowing photo and video evidence to be forged with ease. It is 
devastating for American jobs because it allows a shoddy imitation of a human to do things well enough to function in the short term, and most large American businesses are run by pe ople either too 
ignorant to recognize the shortcomings or too shortsighted to care. It causes vast environmental damage due to the monstrous power requirements to run it, and it relies entirely on the theft of copyrighted material to train it – a source th at the recent use of machine learning is cutting off both for its own use 
and for legitimate purposes by flooding the internet with low- quality slop which nonetheless requires 
effort to distinguish from genuine information. In exchange for all of these drawbacks, it provides less than no value in the vast majority of its seeming use cases, producing outputs which are precision engineered to seem as much like well- written 
commentary from informed sources as possible while cont aining true information only occasionally 
and only by random chance. Many of these issues, such as the loss of American of jobs, energy shortages, and the integrity of the marketplace of ideas against bad -faith actors disguising their agendas as public opinion, are things 
which the current administration has claimed repeatedly to care about, and strengthening the regulations on machine learning companies would be an excellent way to help deal with all of them and many more issues.  
It could be argued that eventually machine learning might be of positive value to humanity or to America, but any sane observer can tell that that will require slowing down technical advancement while law, public understanding, and business practices get past the hype and understand what they are dealing with. Declaring the companies that develop machine learning software to be above the law so they can develop these dangerous technology even faster is an insane step in the wrong direction which will have d isastrous consequences for the American public.  
This docume nt is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business- proprietary or 
confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 


