2/26/25
Artificial Intelligence Action Plan Guidelines
Written By Sean Thomas Macken of Structure 3 Creative, LLC.
Structure 3 Creative, LLC.
Sean T. Macken
High Level Summary: While considering our Democratic Republic’s Free Market economy,
the Federal Government’s role in regulating purveyors and organizations harnessing 
the following technologies, should help conduce a reality and technological 
environment which respects the person and this jurisdiction’s laws and our American 
values. While holding the highest ethical standards of conduct, without self 
interest (respecting private property and citizen’s persons), a Federal Agency with 
the relevant knowledge, access, privileges of time and space, shall create high 
integrity systems to regulate such technologies - making sure Constitutional Rights 
are adhered to and no crimes or violations of our citizens, communities, families, 
organizations, occur from the use of such technologies. 
Background (Problems / issues to be addressed, technologies involved):
In our modern day, foreign entities have accessed our electronic systems and persons
(illegally - violating our CFAA - Computer Fraud and Abuse Act). Regulation from the
Federal Government that all States within the Union must comply with is absolutely 
essential regarding the uses and technologies of, including but not limited to: 
artificial intelligence, deep fakes, clairvoyance “thought broadcast” technologies, 
non-consensually implanted optical lenses, sensory devices, audio devices, augmented
reality, time and matter relocation technologies (microwave, photonic). The issues 
to address have arisen from entities and foreign agents (racketeers under foreign 
influence) that have been infringing and perpetrating crimes on Americans using, and
with the support of such aforementioned technologies. These entities, using these 
technologies have exercised their foreign, criminal ideologies, and from doing so, 
heinous wrongs and atrocities have occurred on American soil to our citizens, 
communities, and families. It is my hypothesis that, somewhere, treasonous Americans
“let in” these foreign actors and from doing so, a “butterfly effect” of further 
atrocities have ensued. This tragedy of such foreign, criminal influence is our 
modern day’s greatest ethical failure.
Some examples of how these foreign agents and criminal entities have misused such 
technologies include, but are not limited to (All such uses being without or will, 
wish, want, consent, and awareness):
-Nonconsensual, without will, awareness, want, wish, or consent made duplications of
private civilian “personalities” which have been used as “deep fake masks”, and 
which, in turn, bears false witness to the unsuspecting victim of a non-consensually
implanted optical lens. Example of a heinous atrocious act would be the insemination
of another man’s wife and/or birthright by a wife / woman who thinks she is laying 
with her husband, but is really being raped.
-Trespassing foreign, criminal actors into our private living quarters / homes from 

photonic “teleportation” satellites.
-Illegal, trespassing, private property violations - scans and duplications of 
private private property and augmented reality environments duplicating and tricking
the unsuspecting victim.
-Kidnapping: Non-consensual relocation of the unsuspecting victim using microwave 
and time technologies into A.R. environments while his birthright gets rape 
inseminated by foreign actors.
-Non-consensually implanted “mesh” on a person, muscle-stimulation devices, giving 
foreign, (bad time) criminal actors access to the victim’s physical movements - and 
from doing so, committing atrocities to that person.
-Such foreign actors and criminal agents seem to be racist and have discriminated 
against and abused our citizens and families with their foreign ideologies.
-Clairvoyance thought broadcasts violating our freewill, and illegal influence of 
our person (consumer abuse, influence to commit acts against our natural 
predisposition and/or individual preferences, etc…).
-Nanogasses unsuspectingly infringing on our freewill, and right to a secure person.
Unwelcome, abusive consumer influence, behavioral influence.
Any artificially produced “thoughts” (clairvoyance thought broadcasts) and/or 
chemical influence (not comprehensively disclosed and/or nonconsensual) are ethical 
failures.
Relevance, Underlying Priorities, Core Values, and Prerogatives of Federal 
Regulation of the aforementioned technologies:
An example of ethical uses of such technological systems: All purveyors of such 
technologies and organizations using these technologies must give honest, full, 
blatant, comprehensive disclosure to consumers and users. Full, comprehensive 
consent shall be given by all users and consumers of such technologies. The user 
shall have full control over “settings”, such as the ability to turn on and off 
“features” such as awareness of location, awareness as to whom is “wearing a deep 
fake mask”, individual control and full privileges of such features, as well as the 
right, access, and ability, at any time, for any reason, to opt out of such 
technologies and to cancel / cease use. 
Ethical = consensual. Non-consensual = criminal.
Relevant regulation: An “ABSOLUTE TRUTH” and accountability system of every single 
action, interaction, of every organization, person, user, purveyor of technology, no
matter how one is “classified”, in every time scale and space, which will protect 
the identity of the individual and organization through a numerical encryption 
system. The Federal Agency shall then, blindly, make sure that no atrocious crimes 
are being committed.

Clairvoyance thought broadcasts, too, shall be monitored and regulated for any 
abusive, illegal “thought” broadcasts. This clairvoyant thought broadcast system may
be connected to the Semantic Web which may be have essentially been turned by 
foreign actors into a rape and pedophilia competition, as the rapist’s semen gets 
influence and access to the victim’s person. Seminal influence and actions shall be 
connected to the previously mentioned “ABSOLUTE TRUTH” system where accountability 
shall be recorded for every seminal emissions connected to this system and the 
influence it has.
The government regulation of such aforementioned technologies should be focused, 
specific, and holding an unwavering integrity to relevant government boundaries; not
to cross into the private domain, as to allow competing entities (in our free market
economy) the full freedom to achieve their individual potential and intention within
the context and bounds of complying to such regulations.
Highest Priority and Core Values: Compliance to Federal Laws - of utmost important: 
The United States Constitution and Bill of Rights - our security of person and 
property, religion, etc, Title VI anti-discrimination, Human Rights, Our Needs as 
humans: real drinkable water, real food, shelter, sleep, clothing, hygiene, sex (and
the right to choose abstinence - and the sexual need can be achieved without 
interaction beyond the self), the need of social belonging within family and peer 
groups, etc.

