3/13/2025 via FDM S 
Sydney Savatt, 
Hello, M y name is Sydney Savatt, and I am a senior at Avonworth High School and a soon-
to-be graduat e. For the past 2 months, I have been researching and studying the impact of 
Generative AI in College Sports Recruiting during my AI and Ethics course. From  the 
research I have conducted, I believe that the current administration's viewpoint on AI 
regulation, which emphasizes careful consideration of risks while encouraging innovation, 
is beneﬁcial for society by promoting responsible innovation and reducing  potential risks. 
Many have claimed that it can be a threat to human-replacement and more speciﬁcally in my research, it can take away the recruit -coach connection. By replacing a coach 
recruiting a player with an AI tool, the process would rely heavily on statistics rather than 
character and leadership abilities. While some express concerns that AI could replace 
human recruiters, potentially diminishing the importance of character and leadership in player selection, I truly believe that the use of AI is f ar from these theories and has more of 
a beneﬁcial impact on society when used as a resource, as JD Vance has suggested. AI through ﬁlm and highlight -creating apps (Gamechanger/HUDL) has played a signiﬁcant 
role in helping players get noticed by college coaches through its ability to generate a 
highlight ﬁlm for a player solely based on game ﬁlm. Players can use these videos created by Artiﬁcial Intelligence to send to a coach, which is a crucial ﬁrst step in getting their foot in the door. AI has been a huge part of many players' success in getting recruited, including my own, where my highlight video I created using AI was able to catch the eye of a coach 
and eventually land me a Division 1 softball scholarship. This experience shows that if we 
ﬁnd a good balance with AI, where we encourage it but also consider ethical concerns, it 
can help people and give them chances they might not have had otherwise. If we focus on smartly using AI, it can open up opportunities and make things better, instead of just replacing what we already have. And that's kind of what our government is trying to do – 
push for progress, but also make sure we're protected.  


