 
   Sylvia Fichthorn  
Having participated in the White House's Office of Science and Technology Policy webinars 
between 2020 -2023, I believe it most important that all information pertaining to AI should be: 
1. Have an Ethics Board governing use, as well as Tech Giants - no living being should be the 
subject matter of experiments (as I believe I have and am currently, including being a victim of 
ongoing cyber -stalking, other invasive practices (please ask me), Havana Syndrome aka Satellite 
Terrorism since 2018, if not earlier, i n trying to change and/or modify my thoughts, behaviors, 
etc.). Additionally, those in education or being educated, including children, should have rules 
and regulations to follow with appropriate charges should those rules be violated (absolutely no 
testing, practicing on humans, pets, babies, other.). 2. AI should be programmed and/or coded 
objectively so as to prevent biases - currently, it is believed that there is much bias based on the 
past several years of DEI and CRT agendas forced through by variou s agencies and/or other 
conduits of invasive propaganda. Both ideas are technically racism on steroids and no particular 
group should have advantages over another in today's modern world - nor should there be 
repercussions, i.e., reparations as both are cr iminal with intent to guilt. Moving forward, not 
backwards, should be considered the ideal - division of populations is not. 3. Implement 
important privacy and/or data protection controls, so as not to infringe on American's civil rights 
- and so that we m ay serve as an example for other countries to follow in protecting basic human 
rights, plus, plus, plus... I do not appreciate being someone's guinea pig! 4. Protect from 
organized genocide based on background information and/or other personal traits, fami ly history, 
associations, thoughts, freedom of thought, freedom of choice, etc. 5. Use of AI and other 
technology / electronics (past, present, future) coupled with psychology should be prohibited 
should it be used maliciously to modify behavior - and I am not referring to ethical medical 
practices BUT please notify the subject matter that it is being done and for what purpose(s), if 
any. 6. Other...  
 


