From: Taiko Ammer
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Sunday, March 16, 2025 10:54:18 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
As someone who is both in tech as a software developer and also a hobby artist, I have a
unique perspective on "both" sides of this issue and I have to say this would be a bad idea.There are a few reasons:
1. It sets precedent to undermine all of copyright, hurting not just the arts, but also businesses
in every industry.
2. AI's biggest value is use cases that require niche training. This includes: detecting cancer in
X-rays automatically, enhanced photo cleanup tools, facial recognition, assisted/more accuratemotion detection, robotics, etc. in all of these use cases, unauthorized copyrighted trainingdata actually provides little to no value. Broad datasets are not beneficial. They all requirelimited datasets to be useful. "GenAI" - the type that has tech execs begging for this executiveorder - has limited function in any true money making capacity nor in improving our scientificposture on the world stage. It will not benefit the US in any way. This is a risk with no reward.
3. There are huge negatives already to GenAI. It's already *plenty* accurate at generating
images and videos such that it genuinely causes confusion and risks absolute chaos as what istrue becomes questionable. I'm sure the administration would love more of that but hey youalready have it. It's already doing this quite well and it's constantly improving withoutcopyrighted works.
I think regardless of what aisle of the political spectrum you sit, dismantling copyright here
would very negatively affect small and large businesses alike with nothing gained.
Thank you for reading and your time.-Taiko Ammer
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


