From: thomas campbell
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
Date: Monday, March 17, 2025 9:18:50 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
From:
Thomas Campbell
Network Engineer
Sacramento, CA
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan
I am an everyday American who works in renewable energy and owns a small self
publishing business. I have worked hard for years to develop the skills and knowledge tobuild my business, and have been lucky enough to make a decent living and support myfamily – until recently.
The AI systems made by Big Tech companies like OpenAI (Microsoft) and Google
threaten to destroy thousands of American small businesses like mine with theirrecent demand to create special carve outs in copyright law.
AI systems can only be produced by first training on work made by people. My unique work,
and the work of hundreds of thousands of other everyday American creators was taken andfed into these AI systems without our consent or any compensation. They ingest our work,reassemble it, and then sell it back to our clients – directly competing with us and cutting usout of the marketplace.
Now these Big Tech companies are asking this administration to create exceptions and
loopholes to make this practice of stealing American creators’ copyrighted work legalprecedent. They are suggesting that if a machine ingests and reproduces copyrighted work,it is somehow suddenly “fair use”.
 
They seem to believe that anything and everything on the internet – regardless of whoowns it – should be theirs for the taking. They claim that if this administration does not allowthem to rewrite the law in this way, it will stifle American innovation.
Instead, it will have the opposite effect. The purpose of American copyright law is to
protect the incentive to create and innovate.
 


If we the American people do not own our creations, and everything we put online will be
stolen by Big Tech giants, what will be the incentive to create? If everyday Americans
create a new innovative piece of computer code, a new visual design, or a new piece ofmusic only to have it immediately stolen by Google and Microsoft, why bother creating it inthe first place? How will we possibly make a living doing these things?
Want to protect American innovation? Protect American creators. Do not create new
copyright exemptions that allow Big Tech companies to exploit and steal from
creators and everyday Americans without permission, compensation, ortransparency.
This administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big
Tech companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition:
First, the government should ensure that creators and everyday Americans give  
effective consent, so that we can decide when and where our work is used by AI 
systems.
Second, the AI Action Plan should encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so 
that the incentive to create for small businesses is preserved. Our work has immense economic value, so the value generated by that work should accrue to the original creators, not just Big Tech.
Finally, the AI Action Plan should require transparency from Big Tech companies, 
requiring them to disclose what material is in their training datasets, and label what content is AI generated.
I am not anti-technology or anti-AI. I am consistently impressed by the capabilities of these
AI systems, and find them incredibly useful for many things. But we should not sacrifice thehard work of hundreds of thousands of Americans and give it away to Big Tech by rewritingcopyright law.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues.
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


