1 
Faisal D’Souza, Na/onal Coordina/on Oﬃce  
Dr. Lynne Parker, Principal Deputy Director  
Oﬃce of Science and Technology Policy 
Execu7ve Oﬃce of the President 
March 15, 2025 
ThoughtLinks’ Response to the Request for Informa7on on the Development of an 
Ar7ﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Ac7on Plan  
ThoughtLinks provides bou7que advisory services on AI adop7on to a breadth of companies, from top 
U.S. companies to start-ups.  Established two years ago, ThoughtLinks publicly announced its exclusive focus on AI strategy
1 in 2024.  We appreciate the opportunity to provide comments to the Oﬃce of 
Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) and the Na7onal Science Founda7on (NSF) in response to their Request for Informa7on (RFI) on the Development of an Ar7ﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Ac7on Plan. 
At ThoughtLinks, our work focuses on AI-driven business model reinven7on, business process 
transforma7on, global talent impacts, and risk mi7ga7on strategies that enable the successful 
adop7on of AI with the right governance and controls—primarily in the ﬁnancial services indust ry, but 
also within technology and healthcare sectors.  
Our comments in this response reﬂect broad public interest considera7ons rather than speciﬁc 
industry advocacy. Given our line of work and focus on AI, we recognize the signiﬁcant challenges U.S. businesses face in 
scaling AI and are encouraged by Execu7ve Order 14179, which seeks recommenda7ons to remove 
barriers to American leadership in AI and sustain America's global dominance in order to promote 
human ﬂourishing, economic compe77veness, and na7onal security. 
AI has the poten7al to reshape the world. It can solve some of our greatest challenges—elimina7ng 
disease, improving longevity, reducing the impact of climate-related disasters, and transforming 
educa7on. Every American could have a real-7me AI-driven ﬁnancial assistant, guiding their ﬁnancial 
wellness and promo7ng more ﬁnancial inclusion. AI has the poten7al to empower every American to 
start and grow a business if they so desire. From our own experience, AI enhances produc7vity and can reduce opera7onal burden, allowing small businesses to compete at a higher level. AI can give 
more people conﬁdence to start a new business.   
1 'ThoughtLinks to Focus Services Exclusively on Enterprise AI Strategy and Its Responsible Adop?on ,' PR Newswire, 
February 14, 2024.  


 
 2 
AI could add trillions to economic growth and provide everyone with a personal assistant, not just to 
deliver knowledge and insights but to handle busy work, making us more intelligent. Unlike past 
breakthroughs, there is no industry untouched by AI's poten7al for disrup7on. 
At the same 7me, the risks of ge^ng it wrong are as signiﬁcant as the rewards of ge^ng it right. We 
are s7ll in the early stages, and no one knows precisely where AI will end up. Therefore, it is cri7cal that the U.S. fosters an environment that br ings more —not fewer—people into AI discussion and 
development. Moving with speed is essen7al to harness AI's full poten7al while minimizing risks. 
Being overly cau7ous could leave the U.S. in a weaker posi7on. 
That said, we believe the U.S. can strengthen its policies and infrastructure to move ahead at speed 
with AI. While there have been tremendous advances in models and capabili7es, true success depends on broad and safe business adop7on across both large enterprises and small businesses. To 
achieve this, we must accelerate AI adop7on while removing barriers that create unnecessary costs 
and fric7on. We must also educate the broader public. 
The c ase for and against AI has been dissected many 7mes, so we will directly get into making ﬁve 
recommenda/ons.  
 1) Priori/ze Na/onal AI Investments by Impact and Outcomes 
Clearly deﬁne the na7onal interest areas where AI can drive bold innova7on and transforma7ve 
change—whether in job growth (workforce development), educa7on, elimina7on of diseases (cancer, 
etc.), mental wellness, clean air and water, or bolstering na7onal security. For each such priority, 
establish speciﬁc na7onal-level objec7ves (some moonshots) and measurable goals and targets, using them as the founda7on for AI public investments and public-private partnerships that demonstrably 
advance these priori7es. Ensure con7nued funding is con7ngent on achieving measurable milestones 
and tangible outcomes. Set the risk appe7te and safety standards for all-sanc7oned ini7a7ves. Include a broader range of stakeholders in these discussions and commiaees. 
 2) Change Regulatory Mandates and Adopt a Consequence-Based Approach Consider expanding regulatory mandates beyond safety and soundness to explicitly include AI-driven 
innova7on. Bolder yet, modernize regulatory charters to reﬂect AI's game-changing poten7al. The 
current regulatory uncertainty surrounding AI adop7on can slow down innova7on, even in areas 
where AI could enhance safety and compliance. Thoughbul AI governance, supervision, and oversight should balance responsible innova7on at pace with risk mi7ga7on. Ensuring regulatory frameworks 
are clear, consistent, and adaptable will help the U.S. maintain its leadership while preven7ng 
adversaries and bad actors from outpacing AI development.  


 
 3 
Agencies like the SEC, FDA, and FTC should consider establishing dedicated AI task forces or appoint 
pro-growth, Chief AI Oﬃcers to clarify how their rules apply to AI innova7ons while ensuring 
compliance and risk mi7ga7on.  
As the regulatory landscape becomes simpler due to the Execu7ve Order ‘Unleashing Prosperity 
through Regula7on,’ regulators should be encouraged to use AI to aid their supervision and oversight.   
AI does a good job of detec7ng anomalies, and there have been very successful use cases in detec7ng 
fraud in the ﬁnancial services industry.   
Encourage the adop7on of a simpler, risk-7ered consequence framework, where AI systems with 
minimal to moderate risk face limited regulatory scru7ny while large-scale, mission-cri7cal AI 
plaborms undergo rigorous audi7ng and review. These high-impact systems must be checked for 
harmful biases in datasets, ideological or engineered biases. NIST AI and Cybersecurity frameworks remain cri7cal in se^ng standards, and the U.S. should con7nue to rely on an independent, well-
respected body to oversee AI risks. Addi7onally, a community-driven evalua7on system, similar to X's 
Community Notes, should be considered in the right places to ensure AI accountability, mi7ga7ng the risk of a few individuals shaping AI decisions through deliberate or inadvertent bias. 
 3) Modernize and Increase Adop/on of AI for the US Government: The U.S. government has a great opportunity to lead by example in demonstra7ng pro-growth, 
responsible AI adop7on. It has a signiﬁcant opportunity to upgrade outdated systems, enhance 
opera7onal eﬃciency, detect fraud, and mi7gate societal risks through AI integra7on. 
A recent example is Transporta7on Secretary Sean Duﬀy's announcement
2 that the FAA will 
modernize air traﬃc control systems over the next four years, leveraging AI to iden7fy "hot spots" 
where close encounters between aircrai occur frequently. This type of AI-driven risk detec7on and 
eﬃciency improvement should be scaled across federal agencies to enhance security and produc7vity .  
Successful examples will help build public trust in the right way. 
 4) Training of the US workforce and oﬀer free courses  We recommend doubling down on all eﬀorts to encourage and support all types of workforce 
training, at every level, from appren7ceships and voca7onal programs to cer7ﬁca7ons in AI and cybersecurity. Although many organiza7ons already oﬀer free courses, access remains limited due to 
lack of awareness and inconsistent quality.  
 
2 Greg Wehner, " Sean Duﬀy proposes big plans to upgrade air traﬃc control systems, use AI to ﬁnd 'hot spots '," Fox News, 
March 11, 2025.  


 
 4 
We recommend a government-backed, standardized ini7a7ve to provide free AI and cybersecurity 
courses to every American. We are living in a digital and AI age, and it is a fundamental right of every 
American to learn more about AI, understand how to engage with AI systems responsibly, and use AI 
to enrich and improve their lives and well-being.  Today, there are wearable health devices that can 
detect Aﬁb, monitor sugar levels, track sleep quality, and detect early signs of neurodegenera7ve 
diseases. AI-powered wearables are already helping prevent strokes, heart aaacks, and providing 
other cri7cal, lifesaving alerts, but we are just ge^ng started. Early warnings and preven7on are key to reducing disease impact and improving health outcomes. As Benjamin Franklin famously said, ‘An ounce of preven7on is worth a pound of cure.’ Clearly, everyone should understand how to assess 
risks. Robust and broad user engagement may help weed out bad actors. Large corpora7ons have 
implemented comprehensive online training programs, but access to such educa7on should not be reserved for a select few. We say—let’s extend it to every American. 
 5) Encourage and Support Open Source  
Encouraging and suppor7ng open-source AI, with appropriate safeguards, will accelerate innova7on, 
expand the development talent pool, and ensure the U.S. remains globally compe77ve in an 
increasingly complex technical landscape. Security considera7ons should remain central to open-source AI policies to mi7gate risks from adversarial actors. Open -source AI is also a powerful tool for 
training the next genera7on of AI engineers, ensuring the U.S. remains a global leader in AI exper7se. 
Both open-source and proprietary technologies have essen7al roles to play in fostering maximum 
innova7on, and the U.S. must strike the right balance to foster compe77on, security, and long-term AI 
leadership. 
 Sincerely,  
Sumeet Chabria    Donna Chabria  
Founder & CEO ThoughtLinks  Senior Advisor, ThoughtLinks 
  This document is approved for public dissemina5on. The document contains no business-proprietary 
or conﬁden5al informa5on. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Ac5on Plan and associated documents without a@ribu5on. 
 


