1875 K. St., N W, Suite 700, Washington DC 20006 
Via email:  
AI Action Plan 
Attn: Faisal D'Souza, NCO 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue,  
Alexandria, VA 22314 
RE: Comments of the Transformer Manufacturing Association of America to the AI Action Plan 
Please accept these comments submitted on behalf of the members of the Transformer Manufacturing 
Association of America (“TMAA”).1 The TMAA is a trade organization representing the interests of the 
domestic transformer manufacturing sector and its customers. Our members employ 40,000 American 
workers in numerous facilities across the country.  Our domestically built transformers provide safe and 
reliable delivery of electricity to virtually every customer in the country, serve as the heartbeat of 
America’s electric grid and are a critical component needed for electric energy security. Transformers 
ensure that voltage levels are adjusted to safely and efficiently deliver power across residential, 
commercial, industrial, and government sectors. 
The TMAA endorses the concepts captured in President Trump’s January 23, 2025 Executive Order 
14179 entitled Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence  (the “Order”).  We 
encourage the Administration in its goal to solidify American leadership in the development of AI and the 
necessary AI facilities within the country to meet the needs of our utility and data center customers.    
The development of AI and the related AI facilities presents some serious logistical problems that will 
need to be considered.  Some commentators may raise the issue of the costs associated with the AI 
infrastructure.  No doubt, the price tag associated with the build out of AI and its related AI facilities will 
be substantial. 
The TMAA suggests that the true cost of AI lies not in its coding but in its kilowatts.  These facilities will 
require substantial volumes of firm, reliable electricity to power the systems.  At present, the country 
lacks the electrical generation and transmission infrastructure needed to meet the goals of the Order.  It is 
not possible at present to meet the electricity load without a massive influx of electricity and related 
transmission equipment, including transformers.  In turn, the increased need for transformers requires the 
ability for the domestic transformer manufacturers to secure the necessary supply chain components to 
expand their production capacity.  
At the same time as the increased expansion of AI facilities increases the demand for transformers, so too 
do other market forces such as the need to replace aging infrastructure and the return of U.S. 
manufacturing. TMAA members are facing a range of supply chain delays that impede their ability to 
meet customer demand. In recent years, the lead time for the delivery of all sizes of transformers has 
increased significantly, with the lead time for medium and large power transformers that will serve these 
1 These comments are prepared and submitted by the TMAA as an entity and should not be imputed on any 
individual member.   


data and AI centers now exceeding three years.  Supply chain inputs for key components are a main 
reason for the significant increase in lead times. 
To meet this demand, the members of the TMAA have announced more than $600 million in capital 
project investments to expand their domestic transformer production capacity, with more projects coming 
in the near future.  The same supply chain delays impacting current production lead times will be 
enhanced and expanded with the increased capacity expected to come online in the next couple of years – 
threatening stranded costs and capacity due to the lack of supply for key components. 
Key inputs, particularly grain-oriented electrical steel (GOES) and copper, have traditionally been 
sourced from stable foreign suppliers due to limited domestic production capacity.  As an example, there 
is only one domestic producer of GOES in North America.  Ideally, the TMAA members would have 
multiple domestic options from which to source the GOES, but the fact that there is only one supplier is 
in itself a risk to national security.  That producer is at its full capacity and unable to produce more GOES 
without substantial investments in its mill, which it has thus far refused to undertake.  At current levels, it 
cannot meet even half of the demand for GOES in North America, much less the substantially higher 
anticipated demand for the transformers needed to serve the AI and data center customers.  In addition, 
the domestic producer does not have the capacity to produce GOES in the size or efficiency levels needed 
for modern, efficient large power transformers – the type of transformer most likely needed to serve AI 
facilities.  Due to these facts, TMAA member companies cannot procure GOES in the sizes or volumes 
they need from any domestic source and are forced into the international markets to source GOES. 
Ensuring that domestic transformer manufacturers continue to have access to GOES, copper and other 
critical component parts is vital to our nation’s national security – and to ensure the ability to supply 
power to the AI facilities the President desires under the Order. Unfortunately, despite the lack of 
domestic GOES options, the imported rolled GOES is now subject to tariffs that will further disrupt 
established supply chains, raise transformer prices for utilities, and further exacerbate long lead times for 
the delivery of transformers.  Should those same tariffs be applied to GOES and copper derivative 
products imported into the US for incorporation into domestically built transformers, the impact will 
cripple the ability to meet the goals of the President’s AI and reshoring of manufacturing initiatives. 
TMAA stands ready to help meet the electricity needs of the nation and the goals of the Order, but the 
unforeseen and unintended consequence of the GOES tariffs threaten our ability to meet the expanded 
demand.  TMAA encourages reconsideration of the tariffs on these critical components so vital to 
protecting our electric grid and national security.  We need the Administration’s help in ensuring stable, 
reliable, and cost-effective supply chains, particularly for GOES and copper. 
The members of the TMAA look forward to coordinating with the Administration in developing the AI 
Action Plan and providing input on strategies to meet the electricity demand for AI facilities, data centers 
and the resurgent manufacturing base that will return to the United States under this Administration.  This 
will require policies that ensure a stable, reliable and cost-effective supply chain, particularly for GOES 
and copper.   
Respectfully submitted, 
Joseph E. Donovan 
Executive Director, Transformer Manufacturing Association of America 
www.TMAA.org   


