From: Toshinori Tsujioka
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Monday, February 10, 2025 4:59:41 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
This is my proposal with a rough sketch.
Create Department of AI Innovation , which may have three divisions:
A. Physics and Chemistry area,B. Biotechnology and Medicine area, andC. Social and Mental area.Of course, each division or segment cannot be strictly separated because they overlap each
other. Director and Assistant directors may be needed to determine what will be handled in eachdivision of the department.
 
By using AI power, possibilities will be enormous and beneficial to people, the participatingcompanies, and the country, and humans.
I roughly describe a few ideas using AI powers in the following.A.Ex. 1.The current air-conditioning unit uses the old thermodynamic principle through pumping
refrigerant through the system. Although the solid–state chip using Peltier effect is available, it’snot efficient for large scale air-conditioning system. Rather than using thermodynamic system, norPeltier effect, spin reduction of temperature is possible in the future. Find out new elements ormaterials for solid-state air-conditioning, by use of spin reduction of temperature. We can use AIto find out most effective materials.
Ex. 2.Developing Smart Agriculture system will bring innovation to agriculture. If robots can be utilized
to seed the plants and crop identifying fruits and vegetables, we can eliminate illegal immigrantsthat are exploited to work in agriculture industries. Furthermore, when such smart agriculturesystem is developed, it can be used in the moon base or Mars base, or in the space station in thefuture. Experimental laboratories may be set up in the cruise ships to provide fresh vegetablesand fruits through a container producing vegetables and fruits.
If remote manipulator robots with AI assisted are developed and utilized, even people with
disabilities, who are in a few percent of population, can work remotely to help nurses in thehospitals. This will make DEI-advocates be persuaded; they are not excluded from the work force.
Ex. 3.


AI can be utilized to increase Solar panel efficiency by the surface treatment, trapping light
energy, and / or new materials. If new ideas can be found, obtain patents as a governmental IP,
and disclose them to the interested companies with fund.
Ex. 4.Increase geothermal plant efficiency.Ex. 5.I myself have a theory for AGAF (Artificially generating acceleration field). But I don’t know yet
how I can make EM resonation field. If AI can be used to visualize EM field, I may find magneticresonance to realization of AGAF.
 
B.
Ex. 6.In order to reduce the future health cost in both insurance and nursing home burden, it is vital that
we develop the way to extend human health span. The knowledge and biotechnologies are nowready, ironically thanks to COVID pandemic. Based on such books as ‘Lifespan by David Sinclair’or ‘Telomerase Revolution by Michael Fossel’, telomeres (TTAGGG in mammals) at the both endsof DNA shortens in each cell division because DNA polymerase cannot hold the end forduplication. Telomere length about 15000 at birth becomes shorter and shorter and cells becomesenescent at about 6000 in order not to harm genes; the increase of such cells graduallydecreases cellular functions, thereby bringing about malfunctions of organs, may eventually resultin age-related diseases, such as atherosclerosis, dementia, heart attack, strokes, etc. Humanlifespan is limited about 120years (Hayflick limit), which means 6000/120 = about 50 telomere lossper year. Children with “progeria” dye of what looks like old age. Therefore, re-lengthening by useof mRNA, coded with hTERT and hTERC, injection will re-length to the original length,rejuvenating cellular functions. A conference is needed for safer procedure and assessment ofsuch procedures through AI evaluation on interactions. Such treatment may be used to treatdamage caused by radiation, too. Moreover, removal of senescent cells by use of modified T-cellsmay be included in the treatment to make us much healthier. Without indefinite extension of healthspan, humans cannot go beyond the solar system.
Ex. 7.Analyze the biochemical pathways in the body completely. Provide health monitoring system for
people for the better practice in maintaining health through nutrition and exercise.
Ex. 8.Diagnosis system of AI doctor. Suppose we have a rash on our skins which we don’t know what
has caused such a rash, nor can how we heal it. If we take a picture of a rash, AI doctor analyzesthe picture and give us a diagnosis, giving us a medicine or how to heal it. Such AI diagnosissystem may eliminate high cost of hospitals’ treatment.
 
C.
Ex. 9.Enhancement in learning for language or knowledge of established skills by use of meditative


state or hypnotic learning. AI analysis is much needed in this field. Also good will must be
employed; otherwise, the method might be used for brain washing in jihads’ countries.
 
Ex. 10.
Social interaction can be analyzed by use of AI.
 
In summary, each division works as a command center for research and development of ideas by
use of AI power as much as possible. Obtain patents and hold as an IP of the government. Fromtime to time, a conference is held by inviting companies and ventures which want to participate inthe development of ideas to bring about the products. A governmental IP is shown to theparticipants and allocate necessary fund to let them pursuit a profit. Through company-likeactivities, government obtains profit which may be used for payment to, for instance, socialsecurity benefit, or create funds in Treasury, thereby reducing over-all Tax on low-income people.
 
To avoid conflict of interests, the profit may be allocated by a rule: for instance, individuals :companies = 50% : 50%. Because some law suits in the past show that individuals argue in theprofit that the company gains. Individuals create original ideas and pursue by use of companyequipment, but without endeavor that individuals make, the company cannot make a profit. On theother, individuals were unable to further pursue ideas without using company’s equipment orfacilities. It should be set up some rules on the profit by use of ideas originated in individuals andthe use of tools and equipment provided by the company to avoid conflict in the future so that theyboth may be rewarded, avoiding unnecessary conflicts.
Sincerely,
T. Tide
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


