March 14, 2025  
From:  
Nate Hake  
Founder, Travel Lemming  
7901 4th St N #14213, St. Petersburg, FL 33702, United States 
Re: National Science Foundation’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
“Google’s illegal conduct has created an economic goliath, one that wreaks 
havoc over the marketplace to ensure that—no matter what 
occurs—Google always wins.”  
-United States Department of Justice (US v Google, Case 1:20-cv-03010-APM,
ECF 1184) 
Travel Lemming is an American small business under threat of censorship by, and theft from, 
Big Tech companies like Google and OpenAI.  
Travel Lemming urges the Administration to reject the proposals of those companies for a 
reverse wealth transfer from millions of American creators and rightsholders to these two 
abusive corporations.  
Instead, the Administration should create an AI Action Plan that protects smaller creators and 
publishers, maintains copyright protections, facilitates a robust and competitive licensing 
marketplace, and requires transparency and disclosure of all AI-generated content.  
1) Any AI Action Plan Must Not Undercut Copyright's Incentive to Create
Fundamentally, generative AI is an extractive technology. It works like a compression algorithm: 
reducing its training material to weights and biases that are then "uncompressed" when 
prompted for an output.  
The key point is that generative AI can only ever be as good as the material that it was trained 
on. LLMs cannot experience the world, therefore they are limited by their training material. LLMs 
require new, fresh human-created material in order to function.  
If America is to remain competitive in the AI age, we must make sure that the incentive to create 
is not eroded. That is unfortunately exactly what the proposals by OpenAI and Google would do: 
1 


they want this Administration to give them a corporate handout by changing copyright law to 
allow them to freely train on material that they did not create.  
Why should Big Tech companies be allowed to steal from millions of American creators? Being 
a creator is one of the most coveted careers by Generation Z. Yet, that career path will be totally 
closed off if Google and OpenAI get their way.  
It is essential to freedom that these large corporations not be permitted to steal content from 
creators and publishers like us. If you permit that, you will be stifling freedom of speech and 
ruining the thing that makes America great: our many small and varied points of view.  
2) Google Is Already Using AI to Censor the Web and Control the Flow of Information to
the American Public
Google and OpenAI are not companies that can be trusted by America. We can attest to that 
from personal experience.  
Google in particular wants to use AI to pivot from being a search engine to being an "answer 
engine." They trained their AI on publishers, and now Google's goal with AI is to become the 
singular publisher of all information on the Internet.  
For example, at Google I/O 2024, the company announced that in the future “Google will do the 
Googling for you.”  
Google’s plan is clear: Google wants to control the Internet ecosystem. In this future, 
“Google.com” will become the Internet, a single mega-website that users never need to leave. 
Users will be steered towards publishers and information that Google approves.  
Google is also currently in the process of erasing human creators – like our website – from the 
open web. For instance, on September 14, 2023, Google changed its publisher guidelines to 
remove its previous instruction that content should be "written by people, for people." That very 
same day, Google released the first of several algorithm updates that erased many small 
publishers (including us) from Google search results. You can read more about how Google is 
using AI to censor small publishers like us in this CNET story.  3) Generative AI Output is Not Fair Use When it Competes With the Original Creator
The purpose of American copyright law is to protect the incentive to create. Yet, generative AI 
companies are seeking to erode this incentive with an overly broad and unfair interpretation of 
“fair use.”  
2 


When an AI output competes with the material it is trained on, it is not fair use.1 Yet, Google and 
OpenAI continue to push generative AI as a tool that competes with those of us who created the 
original data.  
Virtually every AI product demonstration by these companies includes an “AI travel planner” use 
case (example). These use cases fundamentally seek to replace American travel publishers like 
us, the same publishers whose content was used to train these systems.  
If Google is allowed to train on our data without our consent or compensation, publishers like us 
could be put out of business. 
4) Even Google Has Admitted that Creators Should Get Paid When Their Data is Used by
AI Models
Google CEO Sundar Pichai told the New York Times DealBook Summit that: “There will be a 
marketplace in the future, I think. There will be creators who create for AI models and get paid 
for it. I really think that’s part of the future and people will figure it out.”  
Google has even done AI licensing deals with some entities, like paying $60 million per year in 
licensing fees to Reddit.  
But now Google asks this Administration to pull up the ladder for small rightsholders, publishers, 
and creators.  
This Administration should not sanction Google’s effort to steal from small publishers. It should 
not allow Google to build a centralized Internet where only a few voices, selected by Google, 
can be heard.  
5) The Administration’s AI Action Plan Should Focus on Transparency for Users, and
Control and Compensation for Creators
The Administration’s AI Action Plan should focus not on giving away creator content to Big Tech 
companies, but rather on ensuring a fair marketplace with competition and freedom of speech.  
First, the government should ensure that publishers and creators have effective consent 
mechanisms so that we can decide when and where our content is used by AI systems.  
Right now, Google presents publishers with a Hobson’s choice: either block your content from 
appearing in Google search results (effectively erasing your business from the Internet), or let 
Google’s AI products use your content to inform their outputs (and compete against you).  
1 Charlesworth, Jacqueline, Generative AI's Illusory Case for Fair Use (August 13, 2024). 27 Vanderbilt 
Journal of Entertainment and Technology Law (forthcoming 2025) , Available at SSRN: 
https://ssrn.com/abstract=4924997 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4924997  
3 


Tech companies should be forced to give granular control to rightsholders, so that we can 
choose when, where, and how our content is used.  
Furthermore, any AI Action Plan must encourage a robust licensing marketplace, so that the 
incentive to create is preserved.  
Google and OpenAI are spending billions of dollars (perhaps trillions) on datacenters for 
compute. They are literally building nuclear reactors to power their generative AI businesses. 
These companies should be required to at least equally invest in the humans that create the 
data that power these models.  
In their comments on the AI Action Plan, both Google and OpenAI admit that training data has 
immense economic value. This Administration should ensure that the value generated by that 
data accrues to the creators of that data.  
Lastly, transparency is an important value that should be advanced by any AI Action Plan. 
Right now, much of the AI content on the Internet is not labeled as such. Many users consume 
content without even knowing it is AI generated.  
The AI Action Plan should include provisions to require disclosure that content is created with 
AI, so as to prevent deception of American consumers and voters.  
*** 
In summary, the Administration’s AI Action Plan should advance the interests of regular 
Americans over the interests of a few giant California corporations. Google and OpenAI in 
particular cannot be trusted, and the government’s plan should seek to devolve power from 
these entities – not concentrate it further in their (untrustworthy) hands.  
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important issues. 
About Travel Lemming: Travel Lemming is an American online travel guide that creates travel 
guides by humans, for humans. Travel Lemming publishes highly useful and information-packed 
articles. Our team consists of dozens of local and expert travelers with deep familiarity with each 
destination.  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential 
information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated 
documents without attribution. 
4 


