1 Before the  
OFFICE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
In the Matter of  
The Development of an Artificial Intelligence 
(AI) Action Plan  ) 
) 
) 
) Docket No. 2025 -02305  
COMMENTS OF TWILIO  
I.INTRODUCTION
Twilio appreciates the opportunity to respond to the Request for Information (RFI)  
published by the National Science Foundation on behalf of the White House Office of Science 
and Technology Policy (OSTP) on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action 
Plan called for in Presidential Executive Order No. 14179, Removing Barriers to American 
Leadership in Artificial Intelligence , issued on January 23, 2025.1  
Twilio is a global cloud software and communications service provider with over 
300,000 customers worldwide. As a Business -to-Business (B2B) company, Twilio empowers 
businesses, governments, and nonprofits of all sizes, across the United States, to enhance  their 
engagement with their customers and constituents. Twilio’s communication solutions, including 
voice, text messaging, email, and chat, help businesses to create efficiencies, expand their market 
share, and provide customers with a targeted, positive experience. Twilio uses AI in a variety of 
products and services, such as Flex Agent CoPilot with Unified Profiles , to enable businesses to 
1 Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan, 90 Fed. Reg. 9088 
(Feb. 6, 2025), https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/02/06/2025 -02305/request -for-information -on-the-
development -of-an-artificial -intelligence -ai-action -plan (“RFI”).  This document is approved for public 
dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may 
be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  


2 conduct their interactions with customers more efficiently.2 We also offer AI products to help 
customers detect and block suspicious messages through products such as Verify  Fraud Guard.3 
II.TWILIO  AND RESPONSIBLE  AI
Twilio knows that AI has the potential to improve the lives of consumers and to enhance 
business productivity. However, as the technology develops it is important to evaluate it 
carefully. Twilio supports the development and use of responsible AI. Accordin gly, we have 
developed  CustomerAI Trust Principles  and are operationalizing those principles into our 
products to enable the responsible use of AI by our company and customers.4 We also created an 
AI Privacy Ladder to categorize models by the type of data used,5 along with  AI Nutrition Facts 
Labels  to help customers and consumers know how AI is being used in our products and 
empower customers to make informed decisions about adoption.6 
III.POLICY  PROPOSALS  FOR THE AI ACTION  PLAN
In developing the AI Action Plan, Twilio encourages the Administration to approach AI 
policy in a way that promotes innovation and enables American companies to compete in a 
rapidly developing global marketplace. Twilio shares the Administration’s commitme nt to 
enhancing America’s leadership in AI “to promote human flourishing, economic 
competitiveness, and national security” and we appreciate the RFI’s recognition that ensuring 
2  Twilio Launches Unified Profiles and Agent Copilot, Combining Customer Data and AI to Boost Productivity and 
Engagement , Twilio (Mar. 27, 2024), https://www.twilio.com/en -us/press/releases/unified -profiles -agent -copilot .  
3 Verify Fraud Guard , Twilio (last visited Mar. 14, 2025), https://www.twilio.com/docs/verify/preventing -toll-
fraud/sms -fraud -guard .  
4 Twilio Alpha , Twilio (last visited Mar. 14, 2025), https://twilioalpha.com/ . See also Twilio CustomerAI Fuels Next 
Generation Customer Relationships and Competitive Advantage for Businesses Worldwide , Twilio ( Aug. 23, 2023), 
https://www.twilio.com/en -us/press/releases/twilio -customerai -fuels -next-generation -customer -relationships -a.  
5 See Keith Kirkpatrick, Twilio Debuts CustomerAI Privacy Ladder and AI Nutrition Facts Labels , Futurum (Au g. 
25, 2023), https://futurumgroup.com/insights/twilio -debuts -customerai -privacy -ladder -and-ai-nutrition -facts -labels/ . 
6 AI Nutrition Facts , Twilio (last visited Mar. 14, 2025), https://twilioalpha.com/nutrition -facts . 


3 
 “unnecessarily burdensome requirements do not hamper private sector AI innovation” is key to 
achieving this goal. With this in mind, Twilio offers the following policy perspectives to support 
the AI Action Plan in promoting growth for the thousands of U.S.  companies that are harnessing 
the power of AI for the benefit of businesses and consumers.  
A. AI Policy  Should be Risk -Based, Flexible, and Allow for Innovation  
Twilio encourages policies and standards that foster industry and government 
collaboration on responsible AI usage as well as  AI innovation and competition. As a prime 
example, Twilio supports the goals of the National Institute for Standards and Technology 
(NIST) AI Risk Management Framework (AI RMF) and views the AI RMF as a thoughtful 
approach to AI governance grounded in  risk-based, voluntary industry participation. As a 
sensible first step in approaching AI policymaking, Congress and the Administration  should 
examine existing laws and authorities that already may be applicable to AI, such as consumer 
protection and product liability laws, to identify any gaps that need to be addressed. AI risk 
should be identified and mitigated appropriately while prese rving benefits to businesses and 
consumers, to include improving human and business efficiencies and choice while ferreting out 
fraud and other malicious activities. Any potential AI regulation should focus on clearly 
identified high -risk use cases, such a s hiring decisions or developing lifesaving drugs for 
patients, and should not be overly inclusive or focused on whole industries or technologies. 
Companies need flexibility to continue to innovate with new AI products and services. Though 
Twilio has used AI for several years to help combat fraud on its networks, Twilio’s new 
applications for AI are already allowing businesses to be more creative, efficient, and customer -
oriented, and to direct resources more appropriately to targeted customer needs.  
Sensible global harmonization of AI regulations and standards is key to fostering 
innovation and a robust global marketplace for AI products and services. Twilio encourages 


4 efforts through standards bodies such as ISO/IEC to develop industry standards and supports the 
work of the Organisation for Economic Co -operation and Development (OECD) to define 
international AI principles.  
B. U.S. AI Policy Should Reflect the Varied Nature of the AI Ecosystem, Including the 
Important Role of AI Integrators 
Companies like Twilio often occupy the role of “AI integrator,” where we incorporate 
third party AI technology into our products and services for deployment by our business 
customers. Recently, legislative discussions have focused on whether an entity is a  “developer” 
or a “deployer” of AI. However, AI integrators like Twilio do not fit neatly into either category; 
as we often do not develop our own generative AI models, nor have a direct relationship with 
end-user consumers. Before defining and assigning a ny new legal obligations, any AI regulatory 
efforts must clearly and appropriately define the roles and obligations for the various actors in 
the AI value chain. AI integrators that fine tune or modify LLMs developed by others should be 
subject to risk req uirements and obligations only when the modification introduces greater risk 
into the model, and only where the integrator exercises substantial control. Integrators should not 
be forced to assume responsibility for the entire model.  
Information sharing requirements related to model development may also be appropriate 
to ensure the AI ecosystem can best function responsibly and accurately for businesses and 
consumers. AI model developers should be subject to clear transparency requirem ents so that 
integrators like Twilio have access to key information, including information that is not publicly 
available. This will permit business customers who deploy AI to end -user consumers to comply 
with applicable laws. Additionally, while Twilio su pports concepts such as deployment 
monitoring of models that reside at the highest risk tier, any requirement to share data with 
competitors with no guardrails in place to protect privacy, security, and innovation threatens the 


5 
 cultivation of a healthy, fair, and competitive marketplace. It will also create an environment 
where it is difficult to encourage the development of open source models and will create 
additional challenges for B2B companies and business models that rely o n and manage customer 
data.  
Any regulatory environment designed to foster U.S. AI leadership and promote 
competition must avoid extensive or cumbersome reporting requirements and must not impose 
regulatory requirements on an overly broad set of use cases or unduly burden small - and 
medium -sized providers. Regulatory measures should be proportionate, reasonable, and tailored 
to avoid undue impact on small - and medium -sized providers.  
Finally, any new legislation or regulation should include incentives for downstream 
providers to benefit from AI. Not all providers are similarly situated and it’s essential that the 
United States continue to build a regulatory environment that fosters opp ortunity in the 
marketplace for smaller companies. The work being done under initiatives like the National 
Artificial Intelligence Research Resource (NAIRR) should also form the basis of new 
opportunities for the next generation of companies. We encourage policymakers to consider new 
opportunities in the form of grants or other funding resources to incentivize the next phase of AI 
innovation.  
C. The United States Should Continue to Create an Innovative Environment that 
Allows for Greater Adoption of Open Source AI Models  
A healthy and competitive AI ecosystem that drives U.S. leadership requires robust use 
of open source models. Further, AI policy should not favor any particular technology model 
based on unsubstantiated security or privacy concerns. Any such bias will inhi bit the ability of 
American companies to compete and drive customers to other markets. Safe and reliable open 
source AI models can be a benefit to both business and consumers while minimizing risks to 


6 privacy and security. Any regulatory requirements must be reasonable, proportionate, and 
narrowly tailored to the specific risk they are designed to mitigate.  
D.If Retained, the U.S. AI Safety Institute Should be Expanded to Maximize its
Effectiveness
Twilio supports the goals underlying the creation of the U.S. AI Safety Institute at NIST.
For the Institute to stay relevant and be a clear benefit to business and consumers, however, the 
Administration should reopen the application process to admit addit ional participants beyond the 
initial 200 selected by the previous administration. More input is needed from a broader cross 
section of AI stakeholders, especially AI integrators, for the Institute to be effective in fostering 
responsible AI standards that  can serve as a model for the global marketplace.  
E.The AI Action Plan Should Prioritize Sensible Data Policies and Regulations
Sensible and proportionate data policies are key to fostering a competitive AI ecosystem.
Overly burdensome or restrictive data requirements could put U.S. companies at a disadvantage 
in the products and services they are able to offer. Twilio notes that r estricting the types of data 
that can be used, prohibiting how data is used, or failing to recognize reasonable legitimate use 
cases, such as product development, could greatly hamper AI innovation and the United States’ 
ability to maintain the edge in AI development.  
Finally, we urge the Administration to align AI policies with existing data frameworks 
and with like -minded partners to reduce compliance costs for small - and medium -sized 
providers. This also includes harmonization of laws and standards across the U.S. fe deral 
government and States. Twilio already implements the General Data Protection Regulation 
(GDPR) globally and we support the continuance of the US -EU Privacy Shield to protect 
American interests in the global cloud market. As the Administration develop s the AI Action 


7 Plan, it should prioritize sensible data policies as a critical component of effective AI 
development and deployment.    
IV.CONCLUSION
Twilio appreciates the Administration’s work to solidify effective U.S. AI policy that 
drives American leadership in AI to promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and 
national security. The recommendations above can help the AI Action Plan est ablish a strong 
foundation and we look forward to ongoing collaboration with the Administration in service of 
that goal.  
Respectfully submitted,  
/s/_Curtis Swager _________________  
Curtis Swager  
Vice President, Global Government Relations 
and Public Policy  
Twilio Inc.  
101 Spear Street 5th Floor  
San Francisco, CA 94105  
March 14, 2025  


