1 March  12, 2025  
NITRE  National  Coordination  Office 
Attention: Faisal D’Souza  
2415  Eisenhower  Avenue  
Alexandria,  VA 22314  
Dear  Mr. D’Souza:  
UnitedHealth  Group  (UHG)  appreciates  this opportunity  to share  our insights around enhancing 
artificial  intelligence  (AI) innovation  and solutions  in the health  care sector  with you. We support 
the Trump  Administration’s interest in leveraging innovations in  AI technology to improve 
consumer experience and drive  America’s economic growth.  At UHG, we believe  AI solutions 
can be utilized to empower our patients, members, and providers with better insights, more 
timely  information,  and better  care experiences,  while  keeping  safety,  privacy,  and transparency 
at the forefront of our thinking.  Across our organization, we are evaluating how  AI can facilitate 
claims  processing,  answer  members’  simple  questions,  enrich  clinician -patient  interactions,  and 
above all, enhance care delivery. Within our distinct businesses, which together span the care 
continuum, we’re committed to deploying  AI applications at scale, so members, patients, 
providers, and consumers alike can realize their benefits.  
UHG is a mission -driven organization dedicated to helping people live healthier lives and  
helping make the healthcare system work better for everyone through two distinct business 
platforms - UnitedHealthcare, our health benefits business, and Optum, our health service 
business. We work with employers, providers, and governments to serve people and share a 
vision  of a value -based  system  of care that provides  compassionate  and equitable  care.  We are 
committed  to a future where every person  has access  to high-quality, affordable  health  care and 
a modern, high-performing health system that reduces disparities, improves outcomes, and 
lessens the burden of disease.  
Our Responsible  AI Vision  
To make  health  care work  smarter  for our members,  patients,  providers,  and consumers,  we’ve 
built a team  of world -class  AI experts  from around  the globe,  including premier  researchers  and 
thinkers across medical, academic and private organizations, along with external partners, to 
responsibly and safety deploy  AI innovation at scale. Through our Responsible  AI (RAI) 
program, we consider, identify, and address potential risk of unintended consequences that 
could impact our members, patients, or consumers.  
Human  at the Center  
Our commitment to using  AI solutions to enhance human decision -making is built on the 
principles of safety and responsibility. First,  AI does not replace the health care provider’s 
decision;  it enables  it. Second,  our work  is insights -led, as we leverage  AI solutions  to help solve 
the highest priority business problems focused on administrative and operational efficiency.  


2 Finally,  we always  include  a human  in decision -making,  so the AI solution  provides  insights  but 
does not make the final decision.  
RAI Board  as Cornerstone  
The cornerstone of our RAI program is a RAI Board which is comprised of clinicians, ethicists, 
data scientists, and business owners who review  AI models to ensure safety, accuracy, and 
fairness before their deployment. The guiding principles of reliability, quality, fairness, 
accountability, transparency, privacy, security, and continuous improvement anchor our RAI 
program. It is these guiding principles that prohibit our businesses from using  AI solutions to 
make  medical  necessity  determinations.  Our businesses  can use AI tools  safely  and responsibly 
to accelerate approvals and ensure patients get more timely and appropriate care.  
Our RAI Board ensures that we measure, identify, and mitigate potential bias or risk of 
unintended harm during the development of  AI solutions. Policies set by our RAI Board define 
the testing and evaluation required prior to safe and responsible deployment of our  AI 
applications. Resources for RAI include strategic guidelines, data custodianship and privacy 
principles,  industry  best practices,  internal  training,  external  learning  resources,  and governance 
and advisory boards.  
Deploying  AI Solutions  to Make  Health  Care  Work  Smarter  
We strongly  believe  that AI, when  used  safely  and responsibly,  can be a force  for good  in health 
care, leading to better, smarter care. We are focused on  AI solutions to:  
•simplify  administrative  workflow  and help solve  long-standing,  time-consuming,  and
burdensome business processes;
•personalize  the health  care experience  and enable  digital -first health  benefits,  care
delivery, and other health care transaction services; and
•bring  the latest  medical  knowledge,  patient  history  and outcomes  data to clinicians  in an
effort to reduce burnout.
We’re  using  AI solutions  to improve  value  of care,  improve  the patient  care experience, 
empower clinicians to better treat patients, and simplify administrative workflow.  
Find and Price  Care  Tool 
When members use our Find and Price Care tool, which is empowered by  AI, they can 
quickly search and find the highest quality, lowest cost, and closest proximity in -network 
care provider.  This AI solution  informs  patients  of the costs  they may incur  to see a given 
provider, as well as sharing the provider’s location, availability, and quality data.  
Early  Detection  Tool 
Our Early Detection tool uses  AI to help identify members and support providers in 
assessing the best course of action in a timely manner. The clinician reviews patient 
history and visit summaries stored in a secured database.  AI analyzes patient history 
against clinical guidelines and identifies evidence that may indicate an undiagnosed 
condition  or increased  disease  risk. Use of this tool empowers  the clinician  to improve 
his/her accuracy in predicting emerging or undiagnosed risk, and allows for earlier  


3 interventions  and treatments,  while  also reducing  provider  burden  and creating  potential 
time savings.  
High-Risk Patient  Follow -Up Tool 
For high -risk patients who visit the emergency room or are admitted to the hospital, our 
High-Risk Patient Follow -up AI solution can support the patient with a follow -up call. For 
example, the high -risk patient is discharged from the emergency room. The  AI tool then 
flags  the patient is  at elevated  risk, which  then prompts  a follow -up call from the clinician. 
This AI solution improves member engagement; it provides referrals to behavioral care; 
and it recommends members services and connects patients with community services.  
We thank you for this opportunity to inform Pr esident Trump’s AI Action Plan. We ap preciate 
being able to share our views around safely and responsibl y deploying AI sol utions to make 
health care work smarter for everyone. We ask to be a resource to the Trump Administration as 
questions arise arou nd how to responsibly, safely, a nd effectively leverage AI technology to 
improve Americans’ health care experience, simplify administrative workflow and produce 
meaningful financial savings to the health care system. 
Sincerely, 
Rahul Bhotika (03/14/2025 10:25 PDT)  
Rahul  Bhotika,  PhD 
Chief AI Officer  


