1	March 10, 2025 
To:  White House Office of Science and Technology Policy; Networking and Information 
Technology Research and Development (NITRD) National Coordination Office (NCO), 
National Science Foundation 
Re: University of Illinois Chicago Response to the Request for Information on the 
Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan 
A. Introduction
The University of Illinois Chicago (UIC) is a public research university that provides
education to more than 34,000 students, advances discovery through a rough $500
million research portfolio, and engages deeply in the communities that compose our
home city, the third most populous city in the United States. Its mission is to “provide the
broadest access to the highest levels of educational, research, and clinical excellence”1,
and, through the application and dissemination of that excellence, to transform the world.
We understand artificial intelligence to be a powerful tool in helping us achieve that
mission. President Trump’s desire to use the United States’ preeminence in artificial
intelligence to further human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and nationalsecurity, as expressed in Executive Order 14179 of January 23, 2025 (“Removing Barriers
to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence”), resonates strongly with our mission.
Accordingly, UIC is honored to respond to the White House Office of Science andTechnology Policy’s Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial
Intelligence Action Plan.
1	For	more	details	on	UIC’s	mission,	see	 https://chancellor.uic.edu/about/mission/	 (last	visited	03.10.2025). 	


2	B. Presuppositions about the United States AI Policy as expressed in EO 14179
Section 2 of Executive Order 14179 expresses the US AI policy as follows:
It is the policy of the United States to sustain and enhance America's global AI 
dominance in order to promote human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and 
national security. 
Based on commonsense and the best available research2, this responsive memorandum 
understands “human flourishing” as a state of optimal well-being and functioning, 
characterized by the ability to thrive across multiple dimensions of life, inclusive or 
physical, mental, and social aspects. It involves:  
1.Having a clear sense of purpose and direction in life;
2.Continuously developing and realizing one's potential;
3.Effectively adapting to challenges and adversities;
4.Building and maintaining meaningful and supportive relationships;
5.Actively participating in and contributing to the well-being of the community; and
6.Maintaining good health and general well -being.
We understand “economic competitiveness” to mean both domestic robustness in the marketplace overall, and, more importantly in the context of AI, increased capacity to 
compete with foreign allies and adversaries on a global scale. In our estimation, “National 
security” concerns the safeguarding of the U.S. and the protection of its citizens – both 
physically and digitally.  
C. Highest Priority Items to be Included in the U.S.’s AI Action PlanGiven the instructions of the Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial
Intelligence Action Plan, and our estimation of what Americans need in order to flourish;
our sense of the fundamental requirements for increased U.S. economic competitivenessin this Age of AI; and our vision of a more robust national security commensurate withthe complexities of the 21
st century, we offer the following five policy recommendations:
2	See,	for	example,	the	work	of	The	Forum	on	Human	Flourishing	in	a	Digital	Age	at	
https://philosophy.illinois.edu/academics/illinois -forum -human- flourishing- digital -age	(last	visited	
03.10.2025). 	


3	1.EDUCATION AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT:
a.Expand AI Education Programs: Increase funding and support
for AI -related educational programs at all levels, from K-12 to
higher education. This action aligns with the Administration’s priority
of human flourishing.
b.Lifelong Learning Initiatives: Promote policies that support
lifelong learning and continuous professional development in AIand related fields. This will empower individuals to stay current with
technological advancements and enhance their career prospects, both
of which are essential for economic competitiveness.
2.RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT:
a.Invest in Research Infrastructure: Increase investments in
research infrastructure to position academic institutions and
industry partners at the forefront of AI knowledge and discovery.
Advancing research capabilities is valuable but requires significant
investment. It will pay off, but on unpredictable timetables. It cannot be
left to private actors operating with strictly short-term ROI calculations.
b.Interdisciplinary Research: Promote interdisciplinary research
collaborations that address complex societal changes broughtabout or exacerbated by AI innovations. The societal implications of
AI are likely to be profound.
3 Human flourishing, economic
competitiveness, and national security could be de-railed, potentially
even terminally, if we do not actively and chronically anticipate
challenges and problems.
3.PARTNERSHIPS AND INNOVATION:
a.Public-Private Partnerships: Spur new and intensify existing
partnerships between academic institutions, businesses, andnonprofits to enhance innovation, technology transfer and
3	For	vivid	descriptions	of	the	societal	implications	of	machine	learning,	see	Kissinger,	H.	A.,	Schmidt,	E.,	&	
Huttenlocher,	D.	(2021). 	The	Age	of	AI:	 And	Our	Human	 Future.	Hachette	UK,	16 -27.	


4	employment prospects. Similarly to 2. (a) and (b) supra, valuable 
synergies that would not otherwise occur will become eventualities as a 
result of such encouragement.  
4.DATA PRIVACY AND SECURITY:
a.Robust Data Governance: Mandate or, at minimum, encourage
strong data privacy and security measures throughout the AIsystem lifecycle to protect against data breaches and AI model
attacks. This will help ensure the ethical and secure use of AI systems
and encourage Americans’ comfort with AI. In the absence of citizen-
users feeling secure with AI applications, it is unlikely that the
Administration’s AI aspirations can be realized.
b.Transparency and Explainability: Promote the development of AI
systems with transparent and explainable outputs, enhancing trustand accountability in AI applications. The rationale here is the same
as that of 4. (a) supra.
5.NATIONAL SECURITY AND DEFENSE:
a.Ethical AI in Defense: Encourage the development of and
commitment to ethical guidelines for AI applications in nationalsecurity and defense to ensure responsible and humane
applications. Domestic investigations, intelligence and military use of AI
will likely continue to be domains of high sensitivity for many Americans.
Broad public support will be undermined, perhaps irreparably, if AI isused unethically to further domestic surveillance or other military
actions.
UIC appreciates the opportunity to respond to the Request for Information on the 
Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action Plan. Per requirements of the RFI, “This 
document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.”  If questions arise, or more information is needed, contact University of Illinois 
Chicago  Associate Vice Chancellor for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence Strategy 
Michael G Bennett at 


5	Respectfully submitted, 
Michael G Bennett 
Associate Vice Chancellor for Data Science and	AI Strategy 
University of Illinois Chicago 


