1 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. 
Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attributi on Response to request for information (RFI) on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence Action Plan ; Submitted via email to 
March 15, 2025  
We appreciate the opportunity to offer comments as the Trump Administration develops an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  to ensure the United Stat es remains at the forefront of 
AI innovation. As an applied safety science leader for over 130 years, we understand the 
role safety pla ys in supporting innovation. Through testing, inspection, certification, and 
advisory services, UL Solutions helps verify products meet safety, security, and 
sustainability standards . As AI is becoming an increasingly integral part of the software 
ecosystem and  being relied upon by products with safety critical functions,  we have helped 
examine the safety, security, and sustainability impacts of AI in autonomous systems, 
healthcare applications  and other technologies.  This work informs our reco mmendation 
below on the need for development of a comprehensive AI standard  that fosters  innovation 
and advancement and at the same time promotes  safe AI, supports  responsible AI 
development, and aligns with existing international standards from  ISO/IEC.  
Comprehensive  AI Standard for Safe & Responsible A I Development  
The rapid advancement and integration of AI into critical sectors such as healthcare, 
transportation, manufacturing, and defense necessitate a structured approach to ensure 
AI technologies remain  not only beneficial but also safe and  trustworthy . A comprehensive 
AI standard can foster innovation and advancement, while promoting safety and 
supporting responsible development.  Without a strong foundational standard, AI systems 
may pose risks such as bias, lack of transparency, security vulnerabilities, and sys tem 
failures, which could have severe consequences for public safety, economic stability, and 
trust in AI technologies.  
By integrating  risk-based safety principles, the proposed AI standard can help meet the 
objectives of Executive Order 14179 (Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial 
Intelligence)  while ensuring that AI is  safe for users, ethically aligned, and resilient against 
misuse. Key areas that should be included in the standard, are:  
•Quality Management:  Ensuring structured development and testing processes.
•Robustness & Reliability:  Addressing AI system performance across different
conditions.
•Transparency & Explainability:  Enabling users and regulators to understand AI
decisions.


2 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. 
Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attributi on •Control & Oversight:  Providing mechanisms for human intervention.
•Fairness & Bias:  Ensuring equitable outcomes and reducing discrimination.
•Data Privacy & Security:  Implementing safeguards to protect sensitive data.
•AI-Based Functional Safety:  Ensuring AI components in safety -critical systems
function predictably.
•Lifecycle Management:  Establishing guidelines for AI system updates, maintenance,
and decommissioning.
A comprehensive AI standard  should incorporate key  safety principles and guidelines  and  
provide a framework for assessing AI safety through  technical, ethical, and governance -
related principles . These are  critical for ensuring  AI systems are reliable, fair, and well -
documented.  
Executive Order 14179 emphasizes AI leadership by ensuring that innovation is not stifled 
by unnecessary regulations. A well -structured AI standard can  balance innovation with 
safety  by providing clear guidelines that enable businesses to develop and deploy AI 
responsibly while maintaining global competitiveness.  A standardized safety framework 
provides the predictability, trust, and regulatory clarity  that businesses need to accelerate 
AI adoption without facing inconsistent or burdensome regulatory requir ements. A 
structured approach can  streamline compliance  and reduce uncertainty, 
ultimately  enhancing US leadership in AI innovation.  
A comprehensive AI standard should align with international  best practices and existing AI 
safety frameworks  such as those developed by U L Solutions , ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 42, IEEE, 
and NIST. Many of these organizations have already established  AI governance, risk 
management, and safety guidelines, including:  
•UL: Outline of Investigation for Safety of AI -Based Products
•ISO/IEC 42001  (AI Management System)
•ISO/IEC 23894  (AI Risk Management)
•ISO/IEC TR 5469  (AI Functional Safety)
•NIST AI Risk Management Framework (AI RMF 1.0)
By adopting and integrating these internationally recognized best practices, the U.S. 
can  ensure interoperability, facilitate global AI trade, and reinforce American leadership  in 
AI policy and governance.  
Applicable Standards  in Healthcare  
Given the critical need for safety and security in healthcare, we also suggest that the 
following standards should be a part of US medical and healthcare AI policy making: 


3 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. 
Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attributi on •AAMI TIR 34971:2023; Application of ISO 14971 to machine learning in artificial
intelligence —Guide
•UL 2900-2-1 Ed. 1-2017 Software Cybersecurity for Network-Connectable Products,
Part 2-1: Particular Requirements for Network Connectable Components of
Healthcare and Wellness Systems
•IEC 81001 -5-1 Health Software and Health IT Systems Safety, Effectiveness and
Security - Part 5-1: Security - Activities in The Product Life Cycle
•IEC 82304 -1 Health Software - Part 1: General Requirements for Product Safety
Thank you again for the opportunity to provide comments as the Administration develops  
an AI Action Plan. Leveraging key safety principles and guidelines  will enable trust in AI 
systems, drive the adoption of AI, and maintain US leadership in the global AI landscape . If 
you have further questions, please contact Derek Greenaue r, Director, Public Affairs , 
Americas Region (
Sincerely,  
/s 
Derek Greenauer  
Director, Public Affairs, Americas Region  
UL Solutions  


