OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT & COMMUNITY RELATIONS 
601 Elmwood Avenue, P.O. Box 706  
Rochester, New York 14642 
Response to Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence Action 
Plan  
March 15, 2025  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government 
in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
The University of Rochester is among America’s leading research universities and has a long 
history in computer science, data science, machine learning and artificial intelligence research. 
The University of Rochester Medical Center is the largest integrated health system in Upstate 
New York home to eight hospitals, 7 nursing homes, the National Cancer Institute’s latest 
designated cancer center, and the region’s largest oral health safety ne t provider.  
Artificial intelligence (AI) is a transformative and increasingly pervasive technology that is 
changing our lives in fundamental and profound ways. As part of the University’s 2030 strategic 
plan, Boundless Possibility, Rochester faculty, staff, and studen ts are integrating and leveraging 
AI in their work to enhance how we learn, discover, heal, and create. The University has 
significant expertise and is making significant investments in this area, including:  
•Rochester offers a BS, BA, MS, and PhD in computer science and a BA, BS, and MS in
data science through the Hajim School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. And Simon
Business School offers an online MS in business analytics and applied AI. Additional
degree and certification programs are available and forthcoming.
•The Center of Excellence (CoE) in Data Science and Artificial Intelligence. The CoE is
dedicated to supporting businesses in New York through the application of data science
methods and tools that solve challenges and deliver critical insights. To date, th at’s
resulted in an economic impact of more than $140 million.
•The Goergen Institute for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence serves as an
interdisciplinary hub, creating new opportunities for Rochester faculty and students to
collaborate and stay on the cutting edge of AI research.
•Rochester recently joined Empire AI - a New York statewide consortium of leading public
and private academic institutions, who are collaborating to facilitate groundbreaking AI


2 research and innovative technological development. As the consortium’s only integrated 
health system, we are driving the advancement of AI -powered health care.  
•Rochester recently acquired a tier 3 data center, increasing our capacity for machine
learning and AI research. In addition, the University’s Laboratory for Laser Energetics
acquired (with Federal and State support) Conesus, a new super -computer which
quadrupled available computing power while being among the world’s most energy -
efficient computer systems. Conesus is dedicated to national security research in the
areas of inertial confinement fusion and high -energy-density physics research.
•The University of Rochester Medical Center has created its own foundational AI
architecture platform HyperionAI offering secure, on -premise access to widely used
generative AI models without the need for additional hardware or a complicated
software enviro nment, all with the confidence of maintaining healthcare care data
privacy and security. HyperionAI also powers our Generative AI Healthcare Data Chatbot
Chat HAI. ChatHAI functions similarly to genAI platforms like ChatGPT  and can handle
data from a wide range of sources while also providing full data privacy and security
through features such as automatic PHI -scrubbing to ensure that critical, identifiable,
healthcare information is safe.
Recommendations  
The University appreciates the opportunity to comment on the development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan and offers the following recommendations on priority actions that 
should be included in the Plan to enhance America's global AI dominanc e to promote human 
flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security:  
1)AI Research Infrastructure  - Support networking of computing, data, and AI/ML
capabilities across research universities to complement approaches taken by national
labs, including NAIRR .
2)AI Education and Workforce Development  - Grow targeted AI STEM education and
workforce training programs across federal agencies leveraging existing programs and
provide opportunities for AI developers and AI users.
3)AI in Medicine to Promote Human Flourishing  - Turbocharge AI for biomedical and health
applications by increasing support for existing program and making targeted investments
in promising areas like intelligent imaging .
4)AI for Fusion to Promote National and Energy Security - AI for fusion energy program to
accelerate research and reduce barriers to fusion energy commercialization .
5)AI Research  – Maintain support for core research, especially at NSF, and support for a
broader DOE AI initiative to address science, energy, and national security challenges .
AI Research Infrastructure  


3 Rochester recommends the Plan support the availability of right -sized shared AI resources for 
the academic community. Given the rapidly increasing costs of AI optimized computing 
hardware, along with the computing resource requirements of leading-edge AI tools, many 
universities, including Rochester face constraints that slow progress in both research and 
education. For instance, available AI computing resources may be underpowered for 
researchers seeking to address AI development questions at the fore front of the field, while 
being overpowered when time is assigned for student homework or class projects. Rochester 
supports the NSF National Artificial Intelligence Research Resource (NAIRR) and is participating 
in the pilot. The Plan should prioritize impleme ntation of the full -scale NAIRR while guiding 
development to ensure NAIRR resources are available at a variety of scales needed for research 
and education.  
The University recently acquired an existing and under -utilized tier 3 data center in the City of 
Rochester and is in the process of refurbishing and modernizing the facility. The immediate 
focus is meeting the data processing needs of the University and M edical Center, however, we 
anticipate the final facility will have significant excess capacity which could be made available 
to outside users. The Plan should consider the existence of currently under -utilized purpose -
built AI related infrastructure and ho w to best network these and create a shared user mode to 
leverage existing resources to best meet rapidly growing demand for data centers and other AI -
related infrastructure as quickly as possible.  
AI Education and Workforce Development  
Rochester recommends the Plan call for expanded support for existing training opportunities for 
graduate students, post -doctoral researchers and early career faculty, including, NSF Graduate 
Research Fellowship Program, DOE Computational Science Graduate F ellowship Program and 
the Early Career Research Program in fields critical for AI development. In addition to support 
for these existing programs, the Plan should ensure that training opportunities are expanded to 
explicitly include fields that will be use rs of AI as well. As an example, Rochester’s Warner 
School and Education and Eastman School of music conducted an NSF funded project that 
studied the emerging occupation of “artist -technologist”. As experts in both arts and technology 
who see no barriers b etween these two fields, artist -technologists are in a unique position to 
design previously inconceivable media products with relevance and applications, not only for 
arts and entertainment but for many other fields as well, including education, health car e, 
marketing, and new product development in most industries. Similarly, Rochester’s Simon 
School of Business has launched a comprehensive AI initiative, integrating generative AI across 
programs through training, curriculum, and workshops and Full -Time MS in Artificial Intelligence 
in Business. This initiative will help students to master the cutting -edge AI technologies 
transforming industries, preparing them to better leverage AI for business value creation. 


4 Because AI tools will impact everyone and be used in ways we currently cannot anticipate the 
Plan should support all students in being better prepared to incorporate AI into their future 
careers.  
AI in Medicine to Promote Human Flourishing  
AI has tremendous potential to advance biomedical research, improve clinical care, utilize 
existing clinical and research data to provide novel insights, and improve medical education.  
For more than a decade, the University of Rochester Medical Center (UR MC) has been a leader 
in incorporating AI tools into health research and clinical care, through tools such as HyperionAI 
and ChatHAI. The UR Health Lab engages in institution -wide, high -impact projects and utilizes 
data and technology to innovate healthcar e solutions to find the best solutions to complex 
problems that lead to better healthcare outcomes. The Goergen Institute for Data Science  and 
Artificial Intelligence  is working with our health system to build non -generative AI models for 
ultrasound and other imaging uses. We have predictive models that help to screen patient lab 
work and flag results that are at high risk for sepsis and other conditions with significa nt 
mortality rates and are beginning to roll out ambient documentation tools to assist pro viders 
with taking notes during patient appointments.  
Rochester recommends the Plan call for increased support for AI research across NIH and at 
ARPA-H. This should include core research programs across the various institutes. Rochester 
supports programs, such as Bridge to Artificial Intelligence (Bridge2AI),  that will provide data 
sets and best practices for machine learning analysis for use by the broader community. AI 
efforts in health should also provide support for education and understanding the ethical and 
societal implications of advanced AI so that al l may benefit from these advances.  
Medical imaging is an area that is critical to patient outcomes and can substantially benefit 
from incorporation of AI to provide more accurate diagnostics, more rapid diagnostics, 
personalized treatment planning, simplified workflows, improved quality ass urance, the ability 
to bring radiological capabilities to remote and underserved areas. The Plan should consider 
creation of one or more centers focused on intelligent imaging, the application of artificial 
intelligence for image generation, analysis, inte rpretation, and utilization, in healthcare to best 
scale on-going efforts across the country. Efforts at such a center should include innovation, 
translation to practice, and education and workforce development.  
AI for Fusion to Promote National and Energy Security 
Rochester recommends a dedicated program to expand the incorporation of AI into fusion 
research and development. Such a program should be jointly managed by DOE Office of 


5 Science and the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA). Rochester’s Laboratory for 
Laser Energetics (LLE) is one of three principal inertial confinement fusion (ICF) program sites 
funded by NNSA to conduct important stockpile stewardship research.  LLE also leads the DOE 
Fusion Energy Sciences funded Inertial Fusion Energy -Consortium on LPI Research (IFE -
COLoR) hub and leads the Inertial Fusion Energy Science and Technology Accelerated Research 
(IFE-STAR) ecosystem that brings together academia, nat ional laboratories, and the private 
sector to develop a clean, safe, and virtually limitless energy source, built on US leadership in 
inertial fusion.  
LLE, working with national lab, academic, and industrial partners has made significant 
advances in utilizing AI and machine learning to increase fusion yield, improve modeling 
performance, develop better targets, and accelerate data analysis. LLE foresees future uses of 
AI in improving laser (or other fusion driver) and facility operation. LLE believes that future 
fusion energy power plants, as well as future high energy density research  facilities will 
necessarily operate at high shot rates only achievable  through substantial integration of AI and 
computer control into the operating environment. Rochester believes an AI for fusion program 
should support development of AI tools and methods for fusion research and facility operation, 
as well as training oppor tunities for researchers and operators.  
AI Research  
Rochester recommends the Plan increase investments in existing AI programs, including those 
at NSF, including basic science funded by core programs, the Major Research Instrumentation 
Program to better expand access to hardware for AI research, and fund addition National 
Artificial Intelligence Research Institutes to advance multi disciplinary, multi -stakeholder 
research on a larger scale.  
Rochester also recommends the Plan consider a dedicated DOE AI Initiative, aligned with a 
broader whole -of-government approach to AI research and development, to fully leverage 
DOE’s unique infrastructure and expertise to meet the nation’s science, energy,  and national 
security challenges. Rochester supports the related comments from the Energy Sciences 
Coalition.  
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan  and for considering these recommendations.  
Sincerely,  


6 Clayton Cox, Ph.D.  
Associate Federal Relations Director and Science Policy Advisor 
Office of Government and Community Relations  
601 Elmwood Ave., Box 706 
Rochester, NY 14642  


