1 Submitted by the University of Vermont and State Agricultural College  
In response to the Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence 
(AI) Action Plan  
April 1 4, 2025  
This document is approved for public dissemination. It contains no business -proprietary or 
confidential information. The contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI 
Action Plan , and associated documents , without attribution.   
This document presents topical areas/themes we have identified and would like to propose 
around Artificial Intelligence (AI) in t wo broad categories:  
•Foundational research in AI
•Applications of AI in addressing transdisciplinary research questions
1.Foundational Research in AI
•Develop AI algorithms which  fuse and represent multiple data types for the purpose of
improving human synthesis, reasoning and decision -making.
•Investig ate “Snowflake AI ”, where  each AI model generated by a training method is
unique in form and function. This ensures that adversarial attacks cannot locate and
exploit a common Achilles Heel  vulnerability .
•Develop methods to reduce demographic and data -driven model biases , especially in
applications like healthcare, where biased models  can negatively affect patient outcomes.
•Develop robust AI m odels that can  effectively  handle real -world shifts in data  perform
symbolic regression (i.e., automate the distillation of data into equations).
•Expand research on models that can run efficiently on edge computing devices or in
resource -constrained settings  (i.e., TinyML, EdgeAI) , potentially opening  access for rural
health clinics , robotics applications, etc.
•Design t hermal management and energy efficiency of AI computing through federated
computing and load sharing of package stacks.  Cyber-physical solution s can combine
hardware  and AI for optimizing and managing resources in AI computing .
2.Applications of AI in Addressing Transdisciplinary Research
Health and Human Wellness  
•Integrate AI and smart sensors to perceive and interpret information beyond human
capability, improving human understanding and decision -making.
•Develo p privacy -preserving AI models to leverage insights from wearable sensors and
mobile phones to inform targeted interventions in health care . Potential  privacy concerns
would have to be  identified and convincingly handled.
•Establish a national framework allowing researchers and clinicians to securely process
personally identifiable information (PII) and protected health information (PHI) through
advanced AI models, overcoming current HIPAA and IRB protocol constraints.


2 
 (Currently, many leading LLMs  and AI tools  must be run in the cloud, so researchers or 
clinicians must send data to the servers of an external company .) 
• Use AI for d iagnostic support . Examples include:  (i) Image analysis  (use AI to detect 
pathologies in medical images, and to augment the capabilities of experienced clinicians ); 
and (ii) point-of-care diagnosis  (deploy AI -based tools, possibly on handheld devices, 
offering capability augmentation in rural or underserved areas ). 
• Develop AI -based tools for p rocedure guidance via real -time augmentation or robot -
assisted surger ies. Enhance surgical precision and safety by providing real -time guidance 
during procedures  (e.g., optimizing instrument control, providing  informed decisions ).  
• Clinical augmentation : Build t ools that can perform automatic summarization of patient 
histories or predictive tools that flag high -risk patient information for closer monitoring.  
• Treatment personalization : AI-driven recommendation  system can provide  customized 
treatment plans based on genomic, clinical, and lifestyle data.   
• Use AI -based tools to understand protein dynamics and function s at the molecular level 
to design small -molecule drugs targeting proteins whose mutations lead to human 
diseases.  
• Increase transparency: c linical decision -making via AI -driven recommendations requires 
transparent models that can provide clinicians with clear rationales for decisions (e.g. 
diagnostic suggestions, recommended treatment s, surgical navigation decision -making). 
• Improv e model interpretability : this fosters trust from stakeholders (patients, clinicians, 
regulators) and accelerates adoptions of AI tools.  To that e nd, n ew techniques that offer 
both global (overall model) and local (instance -level) interpretability, along with 
standardized metrics to evaluate how interpretable a model is , are needed.  
Agriculture , Water Security  and Public Safety  
• Deploy AI to identify and bias -correct water  models  for more accurate predictions .  Data-
driven regional policies can be developed to improve our management of water 
resources , particularly  during extreme events.  
• Use AI, integrated with on -ground smart sensors and satellite data , to improve estimates 
of crop yield, and water budgets (e.g., evapotranspiration, soil moisture) at finer spatial 
and temporal resolution to support data -driven precision agriculture . 
• Use AI for water quantity and quality monitoring, synthesis and forecasting of extreme 
events (e.g., droughts, floods, wildfires, landslides).  
• Improve  transportation by leveraging AI for  a comprehensive analysis of road conditions 
and safety measures. AI can help e valuate street imagery to assess road quality, detect 
structural and infrastructure issues, and identify hazards, thereby improving maintenance 
efficiency and enhancing overall public safety.   
• Build AI models that advance the integration of geospatial data from multiple 
modalities —including satellite imagery, ground sensors, and drone footage —to develop 
robust predictive tools and a comprehensive understanding of geospatial areas. As an 
applicati on to these models, they can accurately forecast drought conditions and 
anticipate flood events by analyzing diverse datasets.  
 


3 Smart Organisms, Materials and Structural Systems 
•AI can help design  organisms , i.e.,  living machines that combine biology and AI (e.g.,
Xenobots , which are synthetic lifeforms designed to perform some desired function and
are built by combining together different biological tissues ).  AI can also help with the
efficient  and automatic design of classical robot ic structures .
•ML-Assisted Structural Optimization : AI can help d evelo p models for vibration control
and vibrational energy harvesting , enhanc ing mechanical  system performance and
efficiency.
•ML-Accelerated First -Principles Calculations : AI can accelerate  the computation of
exciton -phonon and electron -phonon coupling in nanostructures and quantum materials ,
thus driving material discovery in  e.g., solar energy  material applications .
•ML-Assisted Polymer Dynamics and Chemistry Simulations : AI can help scientists gain
a fundamental understanding of macroscopic mechanical behaviors from a molecular
dynamics perspective. This can inform the experimental design of polymer composites
with enhanced mechanical resilience, e.g., enabling them to withstand harsh
environments.
•Explore peptide design:  AI can explore vast sequence spaces and predict peptide
structures with desir able functional properties. This can accelerate therapeutic discovery
and enhance  the efficiency and cost -effectiveness of drug development .
•Knowledge -Guided ML – Research is  needed to integrate more traditional physics -based
analysis approaches with machine learning , to benefit from the strength of both
approaches. A pplications are broad -based , including fields such as  smart structure s,
transport processes, etc .
Energy and Grid Stability 
•Verify the performance of ML models used for power grid management to safely operate
modern power systems  and help accelerate the renewable energy transition .
•Utilize deep learning architectures, particularly implicit neural network -based solvers, to
address previously unsolvable grid optimization problems.
•Deploy graph -based, topology -aware AI models for anomaly detection on power grids
using spatial -temporal data.
•Create data-driven control strategies by combining behavioral system theory with
machine learning, developing efficient control algorithms without relying on explicit
mathematical models of system dynamics.


