1 Response to Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Submitted by: Susan Martinis, Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation, University of 
Illinois Urbana -Champaign  
Executive summary  
●The University of Illinois Urbana -Champaign  (UIUC)  has always been on the pioneering
edge of AI research and development and continues as a leader in research  and
innovation  around AI, fundamental science,  and STEM education in general.
○UIUC research focuses on advancing fundamental AI and developing
applications of AI in areas such as agriculture, biotechnology, cybersecurity,
defense, education, engineering, health, information sciences, manufacturing,
social sciences, and workforce development.
○UIUC has an advanced  infrastructure for AI work, expertise , units on campus
devoted to research related to AI , and computational resources .
○UIUC produces thousands of graduates in the STEM and AI space who help  form
the backbone of the kind of workforce needed for the US to continue to lead the
world in AI .
●The US is the birthplace  and leader of AI, but our national leadership is vulnerable due
to comparably insufficient production of STEM graduates and limited funding for
fundamental AI research .
○Nearly 100% of high -profile AI engineers at large and small companies emerge
from US -based PhD programs; graduate level study in the US serves as a
catalyst for innovation, creativity, and economic growth.
●Increasing production  of AI talent requires a multi -pronged approach .
○Invest in STEM higher education programs to increase capacity, reduce the cost
of enrollment for US citizens, and provide compute infrastructure to support
teaching AI .
○Invest in training and professional development of early , secondary , and
university educators to provide high -quality  education to the next generation of
US citizens in the STEM pipeline , ensuring they emerge as universally
computing -literate and well -prepared  for STEM careers . UIUC  College of
Education’s Illinois  Secondary Teacher Education  and Computer Science
Initiative (I -STECS) has established the Teaching Endorsem ent in Computer
Science ( CSTEd) which provides core knowledge and skills in CS  to teachers .


2 ○Maintain and increase incoming international talent to meet the current
shortage of US -based talent .
●Leadership in innovation requires increased investment in research and startups .
○Additional streamlined funding to initiatives that focus on national priorities .
○Invest  in industrial scale AI-ready computing infrastructure at academic
institutions to create opportunit ies for large -scale innovations  and their
commercialization .
The University of Illinois is a leader in AI research and infrastructure 
and in generating STEM talent  
University of Illinois Urbana -Champaign (UIUC) is one of the premier engines for basic 
science and AI research and one of the top universities for US  Federal agencies funding 
(NSF, DOD, DOE, NIH, USDA, etc.).  
UIUC is  a leading provider of computing resources for the National Artificial Intelligence 
Research Resource (NAIRR) pilot and provides the majority of GPU resources in the NSF 
ACCESS program, which supplies  computing  resources  to researchers across the country. 
We have a long history leading national cyberinfrastructure programs such as XSEDE and 
ACCES S which highlight  UIUC’s ability to lead and coordinate national cyberinfrastructure 
initiatives. Recently we received the DOE INCITE award, one of two recent DOE a wards to 
fund research in AI and high -energy physics.  
UIUC  has eleven  “Top 10” engineering programs and 8,500 engineering students , including 
5,300 students in computer science. Our Applied Machine Learning course tops 1,000 
students. Our CS+X programs integrate AI and computing across Chemistry, Crop 
Sciences, Advertising, Bioengineering,  and other disciplines. Similarly, our new X + DS 
program has 850 students from Astronomy, Business, Accountancy, Finance,  and 
Information Sciences. We are proud of our contribution to America’s economy and 
technology dominance by providing among the largest number and highest quality STEM 
graduates o f any university in the U nited States .  
We are home to the Center for AI Innovation that bridges AI research and application, and 
three National AI Research  Institutes focusing o n Molecular Discovery, Education, and 
Agriculture  funded in partnership between NSF, USDA, and the US Department of 
Education . Additionally, UIUC  has AI Centers on Autonomous Construction and 


3 Manufacturing, Health Data Systems and Analytics, Scientific Modeling, and Advanced 
Electronics Through Machine Learning, among others.  
Our campus has strong partnerships with industry – NVIDIA and IBM are partners on a 
recent INCITE award to cite one example.  As well as driving innovation through new use -
inspired  research , these partnerships support  the exchange of faculty and students  and 
help ensure the supply of the US’ future workforce.  UIUC  also ha s strong connections and 
longstanding relationships with national DOE laboratories such as Argonne, Sandia, Oak 
Ridge, and Fermi National Accelerator. UIUC drives research and innovation across the US 
STEM landscape and our researchers are well -positioned to continue this leadership in the 
AI space.  
Our people are already engaged in helping shape future policies and directions for the AI 
landscape.  Our faculty serve national leadership roles in AI  and computing , such as  Syed 
Bahauddin Alam : National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine (NASEM) 
committee  on AI foundation models and their impact on scientific discovery and 
innovation ; Nancy Amato : Board Chair , Computing Research Association ( CRA ) and  
President, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers  (IEEE ) Robotics and Automation 
Society ; Bill Gropp :  American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS)  Council,  
Section on Information, Computing, and Communication ; Klara Nahrstedt : Advisory Board , 
NSF Computer and Information Science and Engineering  (CISE ); and Anita Nikolich , NSF 
Advisory Committee for Cyberinfrastructure. Our alumni include many founders and 
leaders in major tech firms, including Netflix, PayPal, IBM, Siebel Systems, C3.ai, YouTube, 
AMD, Tesla,  and Microsoft to name a few.  
The U nited States  has a strong but vulnerable  position in AI  
America is the birthplace of AI , from the founding Dartmouth Summer Research Project 
on AI to the inventions of the first neural network by Dr. Rosenblat and the convolutional 
network by Dr. Yann LeCun. It is also the home of the early great AI and computing startups 
that grew  from universities  into giant  tech companies. US early dominance is a product of 
heavy investment in education and research, an entrepreneurial spirit, and a competition -
driven business environment where the best ideas are invented, de veloped, and 
commercialized.  


4 America’s AI leadership requires increased investments . China has surpassed the US 
in the number of AI research publications.1 The US is falling behind China in AI 
development by large margins.2 Why are we falling behind? A major study of national 
positioning for AI dominance finds that, while the US is the leader in technology 
infrastructure, we are way behind China and many other countries in generating the human 
capital needed for AI success.3 China produces more than 4 times as many STEM 
graduates as the US  and it is now introducing AI to children in elementary schoo l4. Not 
enough US students are sufficiently prepared or have interest in STEM. Only 20% of US 
graduates are in STEM vs. 41% of Chinese graduates.5 We are not graduating enough of an 
AI workforce, and we rely heavily on foreign -born individuals for our high -tech workforce, 
with roughly 20% of the total workforce and STEM graduates coming from other countries.  
Falling behind on AI leadership not only impedes our technological advancement, but it 
also threatens our national security. China has developed AI -driven tools for cyber 
espionage activities, such as Volt Typhoon, which specifically targets essential US 
infrastructure6. Cyber activities sponsored by nations for cyber espionage, hacking, and 
digital attacks on critical infrastructure are expected to cause $27 trillion worth of financial 
losses by 20277. This massive financial and societal  impact  highlights the need for the US 
to develop strong AI -driven cybersecurity measures to protect against such threats. Our 
campus is a partner in the NSF AI Institute for Agent -based Cyber Threat Intelligence and 
Operation (ACTION) at the University of California, Santa Barbara. UIUC  faculty  are 
providing expertise on large -scale AI powered systems for cybersecurity tasks that involve 
1 Acharya, A., & Dunn, B. (2022 -01). Comparing U.S. and Chinese contributions to high -impact AI 
research.  Center for Security and Emerging Technology. 
https://cset.georgetown.edu/publication/comparing -u-s-and-chinese -contributions -to-high-impact -ai-
research/ . 
2 Dawson, Gregory S., Kevin C. Desouza, and James S. Denford (2022 -09-22). Understanding Artificial 
Intelligence Spending by the U.S. Federal Government.  Brookings. 
https://www.brookings.edu/articles/understanding -artificial -intelligence -spending -by-the-u-s-federal -
government/ . 
3 Dawson, Gregory S., and Kevin C. Desouza (2022 -02-03). How the U.S. Can Dominate in the Race to 
National AI Supremacy.  Brookings. https://www.brookings.edu/articles/how -the-u-s-can-dominate -in-the-
race-to-national -ai-supremacy/ . 
4 Burleigh , B. (2020, March 10). China’s six -year-olds are already being offered AI classes in school in a 
bid to train the next generation of DeepSeek founders. Fortune . https://fortune.com/2025/03/10/china -
school -children -ai-deepseek -liang -wengfeng -estonia -uk-america -south -korea/  
5 Brendan Oliss, B., Cole McFaul, C, & Riddick, J.C. (2023 -11-27). The Global Distribution of STEM 
Graduates: Which Countries Lead the Way?  Center for Security and Emerging Technology. 
https://cset.georgetown.edu/article/the -global -distribution -of-stem -graduates -which -countries -lead-the-
way/. 
6 Willett, M. (2024). The strategic utility of cyber operations. Adelphi Series, 64(511 –513), 125 –170. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/19445571.2024.2417542  
7 Embroker. (2025). Cyberattack statistics 2025. Embroker. https://www.embroker.com/blog/cyber -attack -
statistics/  


5 data -driven and logic reasoning models to protect against cyberattacks. Furthermore, our 
faculty  are using their  expertise to identify  solutions to improve the cyber -defense 
lifecycle. With attacks becoming more sophisticated and dynamic, AI systems that can 
adapt and reason in real time are crucial for staying ahead of malicious actors8. Investing in 
developing a high -tech workforce with relevant skills and competencies , and with critical 
thinking and creative problem -solving abilities will be crucial for the US to stay ahead of 
this continually evolving and dynamic technology and be a world leader.  
Further, threat s to US AI leadership can affect our response to  technical and operational 
challenges such as our ability to integrate AI into cybersecurity frameworks.  Lack of human 
resources with the requisite skills can hinder the speed at which we can build these 
integrations , which are critical  for the security of existing national systems . Bouramdane  
(202 3)9 noted that 65% of cybersecurity teams struggle to align AI systems with existing 
legacy infrastructure, with insufficient expertise being one of the main obstacles. This 
further emphasizes the need to invest in  education to sustain a strong AI workforce.  
Our experience suggests a multi -part strategy: investing in 
education, AI research and startups, and compute infrastructure. 
To maintain AI leadership , the US urgently must invest in all levels of education . The 
US must grow an AI -ready workforce, a generation of leaders and doers that are proficient 
in math, computing, and digital communication, and have the drive to invent, create, and 
found the great AI companies of the future. Direct investments to incre ase interest and 
capacity of STEM programs at the two -year and four -year level are needed, including 
providing additional fellowships for students attending colleges and unive rsities in STEM 
disciplines. The US should invest in partner ships  with states and universities that  already 
possess and are working to expand upon world class facilities and computing 
infrastructure for teaching  and  enabling students to have first -hand experience in 
developing and using the latest AI methods.  Of particular importance are investments by 
agencies like DoE , NSF , NIH  in funding graduate fellowships and early career research 
programs  in STEM  disciplines.  
8 Siebel School of Computing and Data Science. (2023). NSF Supports New AI Institute for Agent -based 
Cyber Threat Intelligence and Operation. University of Illinois. https://siebelschool.illinois.edu/news/nsf -
supports -new-ai-institute -for-agent -based -cyber -threat -intelligence -and-operation  
9 Bouramdane, A. -A. (2023). Cyberattacks in Smart Grids: Challenges and Solving the Multi -Criteria 
Decision -Making for Cybersecurity Options, Including Ones That Incorporate Artificial Intelligence, Using 
an Analytical Hierarchy Process. Journal of Cybersecu rity and Privacy, 3(4), 662 –705. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/jcp3040031  


6 The need for STEM investments includes all areas of science and engineering . While 
the first wave of AI is in information retrieval and processing, the greater transformative 
impact of AI is in its integration with infrastructure and physical systems , and in future 
currently unknown areas for applied AI research . This will require new materials, computer 
designs, bioengineering, crop science, transportation systems, building technologies – in 
short, innovation and economic development across sectors. UIUC leads in these areas. 
Some examples are the ACE Center for Evolvable Computing , with goal s that include 
devising  novel technologies for  scalable computing that will substantially  improve the 
performance and energy  efficiency of distributed computing in the  next decade , ARPA -E 
fund ing for investigators in the Grainger College of Engine ering to develop an innovative 
cooling paradigm capable of both minimal energy use and maximum cooling power for 
future servers , and The Center for Advanced Semiconductor Chips with Accelerated 
Performance (ASAP) that is working to strengthen US leadership in critical technologies 
including high -performance computing, advanced manufacturing, 5G and beyond .  Federal 
investments in these kinds of research will help maintain US leadership in this space.   
Educational investment is also needed outside of STEM degrees.  Our nation’s greatest 
talent strength is broadly capable leaders with a combination of domain knowledge, 
technical skill, and social intelligence. Investments in elementary and secondary 
education are needed to provide more high school graduates with mast ery of math, critical 
thinking, and language. This will lead to growth of US applicants to STEM programs, and, 
just as importantly, a generation of American students that complement domain expertise 
in thei r major with proficiency in computing and data science. AI is now a fundamental 
technology, and all students in all majors in US two -year and four -year college programs 
should have a general education in AI, creating a robust industrial ecosystem and marke t 
for AI products and services.  
Immigration is a critical talent resource. As stated, we do not have enough qualified and 
interested students graduating from US high schools to meet the need for STEM talent. 
While we must invest in early and secondary education to strengthen the domestic talent 
pipeline, we should also encourage incoming talent to learn at our universities and stay to 
strengthen our economy . Along many different measures, the US Higher Education system 
is the best in the world, by a very large margin. This is a significan t global advantage that is 
necessary to maintain.  
The US must invest in AI innovation. All breakthrough ideas in AI (e.g., convnets, deep 
networks, diffusion, transformers, ImageNet) have come from university, non -profit, and 
industry research labs by scientists aiming to crack the fundamental problems in machine 


7 learning and general intelligence. Today, a few tech companies focused on scaling existing 
approaches  dominate spending on AI development. The US must invest in ecosystems that 
will spawn the innovations that lead to the next generation of AI  to ensure it remains the 
global leader in AI . To maximize innovation potential , it is crucial to support leading  
researchers through federal  funding and independence to drive new areas of innovation 
and technology .  
Increase and streamline funding for fundamental research and startups.  The 
investments in research by the federal government have  not kept pace with the full 
economic cost of research. To ensure innovation is supported across all regions of the US 
to benefit all Americans, overall funding for AI and other computational science research 
must be increased.  
For instance, NSF programs, such as CAREER, Robust Intelligence, and DOD programs, 
such as MURIs and Long Range grants, are crucial for supporting fundamental research 
and training graduate students. However, funding  for fundamental AI research is more 
difficult to obtain for successful researchers at top -ranked universities today than 20 years 
ago. Further, onerous grant preparation and review  processe s, combined with low award 
rates, sometimes mean that the total cost to propose and review often nearly ma tches the 
total amount awarded. Expand these programs, but streamline the proposal and review 
process, strip extraneous requirements, and increase funding, concentrating on 
successful researchers, bold proposals, and research that addresses national priori ties. 
For example, an impact -focused program could implement fast decisions on short 
proposals for short -term awards ( e.g.,  2 years) with potential for result -based renewals.  
Other DoD programs, such as DARPA, that  focus on translational research are successful 
when they specify an audacious problem and evaluation framework and leave the solution 
to investigators. A notable example is the DARPA Grand Challenge for autonomous 
vehicles. The US should continue these pr ograms with an emphasis on well -defined 
objectives , independent solutions , and efficient and effective reporting processes . 
SBIRs are a valuable resource for startups, supporting early stage commercialization of AI 
breakthroughs.  However, spending constraints and performance requirements unrelated 
to commercial success reduce the SBIR’s effectiveness for explosive startup grow th. SBIR 
programs should be expanded in funding with fewer restrictions and obligations and 
follow -on funding based on commercial traction.   


8 New infrastructure is needed to support innovation.  The comput ing costs of AI research 
have grown tremendously, far outstripping grant support. Despite recent investments in 
the computational infrastructure for training complex AI models, e.g.,  through programs 
such as  the NAIRR Pilot, academic research labs have much less computational power 
than some privately funded facilities that are only available for commercial users. This 
imbalance precludes the academic researchers from committing to ambitious projects 
even if they have the groundbreaking ideas. Access  to industr ial-scale AI infrastructure is 
also essential for training students at academic institutions to think ambitiously as future 
researchers and entrepreneurs.  Funding the deployment and operation of AI -ready 
computational infrastructure at academic research institutions and providing researchers 
with access to the industrial -scale facilities, such as those to be built by the Stargate 
initiative, is crucial for research and for successfully training the future STEM workforce. 
This will also foster innovative AI research and its commercialization in the country .  
_____________________  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  


