1 
Building America's AI Future: A Comprehensive Action 
Plan for Innovation, Security, and Workforce Development  
University at Albany’s Response to OSTP’s RFI on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Executive Summary  
The University at Albany appreciates the opportunity to respond to the Office of Science 
and Technology Policy (OSTP) request for input related to the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan. The dramatic recent impact of AI is the product of multiple 
synergistic scientific advances that have been facilitated by the U.S. Government over the 
past decades. We argue that AI is not a single technology, but rather an ecosystem of 
interconnected technologies and application domains comprising tightly-coupled 
components such as (i) scientific advances related to the next-generation AI algorithms; 
(ii) the cutting-edge technologies for the computing, data storage, and computer
communication infrastructures needed to support these powerful AI algorithms; (iii) AI
deployment in various domains: healthcare, manufacturing, managing critical
infrastructures (such as power grids and telecommunications), government operations, and
education. We strongly advocate that any policies adopted at the federal level recognize
and support all components that inform this AI ecosystem.
Proceeding from this understanding, we have articulated an AI action plan with the 
following major policy objectives: (a) Clear and straightforward policies that would not 
inhibit but rather promote faster and better scientific innovations in the core areas of the 
AI ecosystem: AI algorithms and the associated infrastructures (computing, data storage, 
and communication) needed for AI; (b) Domain-specific guidelines, instead of generalized 
regulations, that would encourage faster adoption and incorporation of AI ecosystem; (c) 
“No Harm for Americans Due to AI” policies to promote wide-spread acceptance of AI 
and ensure the commercial stability of AI investments; (d) Multi-disciplinary workforce 
development spanning all the components in the AI ecosystem so that America can sustain 
and extend its leadership in AI innovation. For achieving these policy objectives, we 
strongly advocate a coordinated action plan to galvanize strong cooperation across the 
broad landscape of the AI ecosystem: industries, government agencies, and educational 
institutions. 


2 AI at UAlbany: A National Leader in AI Innovation  
Launched in 2022 with a $75 million investment from New York State, AI Plus is a 
university-wide initiative integrating artificial intelligence across UAlbany’s research and academic enterprise, from data science and semiconductor design to philosophy and the 
arts. The AI Plus Institute, home to over 130 faculty experts, has led UAlbany’s largest-
ever faculty expansion, solidifying its position as a national leader in AI. In Fall 2024, the 
university unveiled the most advanced AI supercomputer in the SUNY system, powered 
by 24 NVIDIA DGX systems and 192 NVIDIA A100 GPUs, making it one of the most 
capable AI clusters in U.S. higher education. UAlbany is also the first university globally 
to access IBM’s AIU System and the first higher-ed institution to use NVIDIA DGX AI 
Cloud, demonstrating leadership in next-generation AI infrastructure. 
UAlbany drives national AI and semiconductor advancements through strategic 
partnerships and federally backed initiatives. As a key partner in the $825 million National 
Semiconductor Technology Center (NSTC), co-located with the Albany NanoTech 
Complex—the nation’s largest and most advanced non-profit semiconductor R&D facility 
operated by NY CREATES—UAlbany’s College of Nanotechnology, Science, and 
Engineering (CNSE) is at the forefront of U.S. semiconductor and AI research and 
workforce development. The university is also a founding member of the $285 million 
CHIPS Manufacturing USA Institute for Digital Twins and the $40 million NORDTECH 
defense technology consortium, ensuring AI and semiconductor innovations bolster national security and economic growth.  
Further solidifying its leadership in AI research and policy, UAlbany is a founding member 
of the NIST-led U.S. Artificial Intelligence Safety Institute Consortium (AISIC), a federal 
initiative aimed at advancing AI safety and governance. With a steadfast commitment to 
AI-driven research, workforce development, and U.S. global competitiveness, UAlbany is 
a critical partner in shaping the future of AI policy and innovation.  
For further information, please contact:  
Thenkurussi (Kesh) Kesavadas 
Vice President for Research & Economic Development  
Sheila Seery   
Vice President for Government and Community Relations  


3 Introduction  
Artificial Intelligence holds the potential to precipitate the most profound transformation of the 
global labor market since the Industrial Revolution. While the specific needs generated by the AI 
revolution we are witnessing cannot be determined with decisive clarity, we believe that an 
effective national AI policy dedicated to ensuring U.S. competitiveness should not only anticipate 
the pending disruptions to the American workforce but also demonstrate a flexibility of design that 
responds to such challenges with an ambitious and structured agility.  
The Plurality of Artificial Intelligence  
Figure 1. AI Ecosystem and Its Plurality 
We argue that AI is not a single technology, but rather an ecosystem of interconnected 
technological advancements across multiple areas. These include algorithms that power deep 
learning models, computing infrastructure, high-speed communication technologies, data storage, 
and memory architectures. Together, these components frame a transformative architecture that 
enables AI to be deployed across myriad fields (Figure 1). One significant element of this 
multifaceted understanding of AI lies in the fact that a disruptive innovation in any one component of this ecosystem is bound to trigger cascading consequences in the other connected components, 
leading to transformations in the development and deployment of AI that may not yet have been 
imagined. 
To this end, a robust and effective national action plan for the development of AI should recognize 
the need for fostering and facilitating advances across all components of this rapidly shifting AI 
ecosystem, focusing on the fundamental concepts shaping the system without fixating on the 


4 
 current circumstances and immediate expressions of emerging technologies that dominate the 
headlines. 
 
Proposed Policy Objectives  
 
Objective 1: Promote an agile, technology-friendly, and coordinated national action plan that 
accelerates ambitious innovation across core areas of the AI ecosystem. 
Objective 2: Develop domain-specific guidelines designed to facilitate faster adoption of AI. 
Objective 3: Underscore the fundamental necessity of human trust in the AI ecosystem. 
Objective 4: Ensure that every American can participate in the prosperity delivered by the AI 
revolution. 
Objective 5: Galvanize industries, government agencies, and educational institutions into a 
coordinated front committed to optimizing the AI ecosystem. 
Translating Policy Objectives into Action  
 
1. Promoting Integrated Technological Advances in AI 
 
Disruptive innovations require basic scientific advancements, yet the areas of research in which 
such disruptions may occur are inherently unpredictable. As such, we advocate coordinated federal 
investments across the full scope of research areas comprising the AI ecosystem. AI policy should not pick “winners;” rather, it should promote and accelerate the conditions under which disruptive 
technologies emerge organically.  
Two current examples readily illustrate this issue: we cannot currently anticipate when Quantum 
Computers will be ready for widespread use, nor can we determine whether bio-inspired 
computing architectures and neuromorphic computing will replace current “traditional” deep 
algorithms. And yet the potential impact of these technologies cannot be overstated:  
 
• Quantum Leap. According to Scott Aaronson, “the world that allows quantum computers will 
be fundamentally different from a world that doesn’t.” A world that “allows” quantum 
computers isn’t just one with faster computers; it’s one in which formerly unsolvable problems 
become solvable, cryptographic foundations may need rebuilding from scratch, and scientific 
progress could leap forward in ways we can’t fully predict today. The ability to harness 
quantum phenomena changes the very rules of information processing and thus reshapes core 
aspects of technology, commerce, security, and scientific exploration. 
 
• NeuroAI. Despite the rapid advance in large language models (LLMs), the foundation of 
intelligence is not language (only around 100,000-250,000 years’ history) but the sensorimotor 
knowledge acquired by the neocortex through the much longer period of evolution in 
mammalian brains. How to computationally model the brain’s ability to achieve goals is a 
fundamental challenge facing both the AI and neuroscience communities. NeuroAI, at the 


5 intersection of these two well-established fields, is expected to be the most fruitful area for 
growth in science, according to Norbert Wiener. 
Action Items 
•Identify core scientific areas and technologies that would transform AI. These include
(but are not limited to) Transformative AI models, Quantum Computing, NeuromorphicComputing, (Near) Zero-energy Computing, Advanced Data Storage Architectures,
High-Speed Network Communication Architectures, etc.
•Fund and promote the above core scientific areas related to AI through the appropriate
Federal Agencies such as the National Science Foundation, DOE,  NIST, DHS Science
and Technology, and other agencies and Federal research laboratories.
2. Domain-Specific Policies for AI Deployment
The plurality of the AI ecosystem requires the development of domain-specific guidelines to promote the accelerated evolution and implementation of AI. The deployment of AI in electric power grids will likely differ in expression, impact, and duration from its implementation in health 
care, obviating the utility of a one-size -fits-all policy approach. The development of these 
guidelines should encourage the investigation of policies already in place for these domains and coordinate their modification for adoption in allied domains. 
Action Items 
•Require all Federal agencies to conduct a “technical audit” of the policies pertaining to
their domain (such as power grids or health care) to identify and incorporate the
potential policy changes/modifications needed to safely and effectively deploy AI
ecosystem
•Considering the rapidity of the AI ecosystem evolution, the above technical audit could
be mandated bi-annually (or even annually).
•Mandate AI security best practices for critical infrastructure industries (e.g., banking,
health care, defense)
•Support initiatives that examine how public institutions can modernize decision-making and service delivery
3. Establish ‘No Harm for Americans’ Guidelines
Trust is fundamental to the commercial success of AI innovation. By extension, negative experiences with AI-powered technologies – whether psychological or physical – will serve to 
erode trust in both AI and the services to which it is harnessed. Hence, we advocate policies that would aim at ensuring that no American is harmed by the rapid advances of AI. 


6 Action Items 
•Incentivize U.S. government agencies to lead by example in the constructive use of AI
tools and applications to improve efficiency and effectiveness, including publicservices and government operations. This would help to demonstrate that AI is for the
People.
•Fund interdisciplinary research on governance models that enhance public trust inrapidly changing institutional and socio-technical environments
•Ensure that AI-supported analytics, decision-support and cybersecurity tools provideexplainable and auditable outputs and promote iterative critical evaluation of outcomes
•Promote legislation protecting against deepfake attacks and AI-enhanced cybercrime
•Support AI encryption research to enhance privacy in cybersecurity applications
4.Workforce Development Policies to Promote Prosperity
Popular anxiety regarding the disruptions that AI might precipitate in the workforce is real; so, too, is the likelihood that the rapid deployment of AI will have a substantial impact on the American 
labor market. To promote American prosperity and political stability, any AI policy must 
acknowledge this fact and respond with ambitious and innovative workforce development 
initiatives that match the creative power of the AI revolution itself. Institutions such as the 
University at Albany can play a significant role in developing and implementing such initiatives, 
from reskilling incumbent workers, to training graduates to be ready to participate in a world 
defined by AI, to developing robust curricula for K-12 students so that they can continue to shape America’s AI leadership. 
Action Items 
•Direct federal investments toward the development of AI technologies that augmentand enhance the capabilities of the American workforce, providing opportunities forsocial mobility and wealth-building for American workers across industries and
competencies
•Establish federal grants for research on labor force transitions, skill-building initiatives
for incumbent workers, and employment resilience
•Increase funding for research on AI’s impact on labor markets, professional mobility,and governance structures
•Develop national research initiatives that explore AI’s influence on economic
forecasting and public policy decision-making
•Establish ethical guidelines and accountability measures for AI-driven hiring,
surveillance, criminal justice and public sector decision-making


7 5. Fostering Industry-Government-Education Institutional Cooperation
Taken in total, the four policy objectives outlined above are best realized through the coordinated 
collaboration among the major players in the AI ecosystem: corporations/industry, government 
agencies, and educational training institutions. The federal government can catalyze the synergistic 
cooperation between commercial competition and deep research while fostering the development 
of tailored training pipelines to deliver a workforce equipped with the necessary skills and 
expertise to advance America’s competitive edge well into the future. 
Action Items 
•Continued investments in academic research and public education both as optimal
vehicles for workforce development and as complements to industry research anddevelopment
•Safeguard American AI by making it sustainable in terms of energy requirements,prioritizing sustainable energy produced on American soil to meet the energy demandsrequired to maintain leadership in the AI ecosystem
•Establish federal centers of excellence for interdisciplinary research on workforcetrends, governance models, and social adaptation
•Leverage the federal, state, and local governments as test beds for critical public issues
and government interventions by creating programs specifically focused on promoting
public-private partnerships to advance the use of AI to solve public sector problems.These funding programs could be administered by agencies such as the National
Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Health.
•Invest in AI-enhanced telemedicine and robotics to lower costs, improve outcomes and
promote the quality of life of Americans in multiple areas, such as health care and
transportation, to name a few
Conclusion 
The University at Albany welcomes the opportunity to collaborate in shaping national research 
and policy priorities that strengthen economic opportunity, workforce preparedness, and 
institutional resilience. Federal policies that support research in workforce transformation, 
institutional trust, social resilience, and technological change will ensure that national policies are 
informed by rigorous research and analysis. UAlbany’s faculty are well-positioned to contribute 
to these efforts, offering insights into economic mobility, governance frameworks, and 
technological adaptation. Continued investment in these areas will promote national 
competitiveness, enhance institutional effectiveness, and ensure long-term socio-political and 
economic prosperity. 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 


