 
March 14, 2025 
 
The Honorable Lynne Parker                          The Honorable Sethuraman Panchanathan  
Acting Director           Director  
Ofﬁce Science and Technology Policy       National Science Foundation  
1650 Pennsylvania Avenue         2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Washington, DC 20502         Alexandria, VA 22314 
 Re: Request for Information on the Development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan 
Dear Acting Director Parker and Director Panchanathan: 
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce (“Chamber”) appreciates the opportunity to 
provide comments to the Ofﬁce of Science and Technology Policy (“OSTP”) and the 
National Science Foundation (“NSF”) on its “Request for Information (“RFI”) on the 
Development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence Action Plan.”1 
 
The Chamber agrees with the recent Executive Order signed by President 
Trump which states in part that the purpose of Artiﬁcial Intelligence (“AI”) policy 
should be to “promote human ﬂourishing, economic competitiveness and national 
security.”2 AI has the potential to drive growth that will beneﬁt individual Americans by 
improving their health, giving them greater access to the means of increasing their 
prosperity and improving the quality of life for their families.  
The Chamber has seen this ﬁrsthand with the release of a report entitled Small 
Business Empowered: The Impact of Technology on Small Business .3  Between 2023 
and 2024, the number of small businesses using generative AI almost doubled to 40%. 
98% of small businesses are using some form of an AI tool for different functions. U.S. 
small businesses that are adopting AI are experiencing higher rates of sales and 
hiring growth than their peers who are not.4 Recent studies have shown that AI can 
boost economic growth in the United States by an additional 10-20% over the next ten 
 1 90 Fed. Reg. 9088 (February 6, 2025) available at  https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2025-02-
06/pdf/2025-02305.pdf .  
2 Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artiﬁcial Intelligence, Exec. Order No. 14179 (Jan. 23, 
2025), § 2, https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/01/31/2025-02172/removing-barriers-to-
american-leadership-in-artiﬁcial-intelligence .  
3 hƩps://www.uschamber.com/technology/arƟﬁcial-intelligence/the-impact-of-technology-on-u-s-small-business 
4 U.S. Chamber of Commerce, “Empowering Small Business: The Impact of Technology on U.S. Small 
Business,” (September 15, 2024) available at  https://www.uschamber.com/assets/documents/Impact-of-
Technology-on-Small-Business-Report-2024.pdf .  


Acting Director Lynne Parker 
Director Panchanathan 
March 14, 2025 
Page 2 
years.5 By allow the end-users to experiment and deploy AI, prosperity and 
productivity will be driven through all parts of the American economy.   
The need for rational policy making is critical for the American people and 
economy to beneﬁt from continued AI innovation. as the Chamber concurs with what 
Vice President Vance recently said in his speech in Paris: “[n]ow, at this moment, we 
face the extraordinary prospect of a new industrial revolution, one on par with the 
invention of the steam engine or Bessemer steel. But it will never come to pass if 
overregulation deters innovators from taking the risks necessary to advance the 
ball….”6 
 In 2023, the Chamber’s Commission on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, Inclusion and 
Innovation (“Chamber Commission Report”) released its report outlining the role of AI 
policy making.7  The Chamber Commission Report highlighted the need for continued 
growth and innovation and proposed a policy framework that called for an inventory of 
existing laws and regulations that would identify gaps that could be addressed 
through a risk-based approach. This gap ﬁling risk-based approach recognized that 
many AI activities are already covered by existing law and that broad based 
approached could in fact be harmful to the beneﬁcial employment of the technology. 
As discussed in greater detail in this letter, the Chamber updated its AI principles in 
20258 to outline how issues may be addressed. Also, in 2023, the Chamber wrote to bi-
partisan leaders in the Senate requesting the creation of an ofﬁce for the Assistant 
Secretary of Commerce for Emerging Technology to coordinate non-security AI 
policies throughout the Federal government.    
For the United States to continue reaping the beneﬁts of this transformative 
technology, continued pro-growth action from the federal government is essential. As 
advocated by Vice President Vance, government must foster an “open regulatory 
environment” with the business community, and “encourage” American innovators to 
experiment and make unparalleled research and development investments.”9 We 
further appreciate the administration's understanding that “excessive regulations on 5 Seydl, J., & Linden, J. (2024, July 16). How AI can boost producƟvity and jump start growth. J.P. Morgan Private 
Bank. Retrieved from hƩps://privatebank.jpmorgan.com/nam/en/insights/markets-and-invesƟng/ideas-and-
insights/how-ai-can-boost-producƟvity-and-jump-start-growth . 
6 hƩps://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/remarks-the-vice-president-the-arƟﬁcial-intelligence-acƟon-
summit-paris-france 
7 U.S. Chamber of Commerce. ArƟﬁcial Intelligence Commission Report . U.S. Chamber of Commerce, 9 Mar. 
2023, www.uschamber.com/technology/arƟﬁcial-intelligence/arƟﬁcial-intelligence-commission-report. 
8 U.S. Chamber of Commerce. U.S. Chamber Releases ArƟﬁcial Intelligence Principles . U.S. Chamber of Commerce, 
23 Sept. 2019, www.uschamber.com/technology/us-chamber-releases-arƟﬁcial-intelligence-principles. 
9 Supra n. 2.  


Acting Director Lynne Parker 
Director Panchanathan 
March 14, 2025 
Page 3 
 
the AI sector could kill a transformative industry just as it’s taking off” and the need to 
encourage pro-growth AI policies.10  
As the ﬁrst Trump administration declared, the “United States has long been a 
champion and defender of the core values of freedom, guarantees of human rights, 
the rule of law, stability in our institutions, right to privacy, respect for intellectual 
property and opportunities to all to pursue their dreams.  The AI technologies we 
develop must also reﬂect these fundamental American values and our devotion to 
helping people.” 11  
We look forward to working with the Administration on these issues and hope 
to provide better insight as to how AI policies are impacting the end-users of the 
technology. Accordingly, we offer the following recommendations to achieve the right 
policy balance that maximizes AI opportunity and economic growth.  
I. U.S. Chamber AI Policy Principles 
 
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce was the ﬁrst trade association to develop AI 
policy principles (“Principles”) in 2019. These Principles were initially developed to 
guide policymakers on how they can position the United States to take advantage of 
the  full economic potential of AI. Over the past ﬁfteen months, our members have 
actively reviewed these Principles to ensure that America remains at the forefront of 
AI development and deployment. The following are the Chamber’s 2025 updated 
principles: 
A. Recognize Trustworthy AI is a Partnership (Principle 1)  
 
Fostering public trust and trustworthiness in AI technologies is necessary to 
advance its responsible development, deployment, and use. Trustworthy AI 
encompasses values such as transparency, explainability, fairness, and accountability. 
The speed and complexity of technological change, however, means that governments 
alone cannot promote trustworthy AI. The Chamber believes that governments must 
 10 Remarks by the Vice President at the Artiﬁcial Intelligence Action Summit in Paris, France | The 
American Presidency Project  
11 Trump Administration; Artiﬁcial Intelligence for the American People ; Pillar Five “AI with American 
Values;” available at: Artiﬁcial Intelligence for the American People .  As President Trump recently stated 
in connection with the Administration’s Feb. 10, 2025 Executive Order, “[e]very policy must be geared 
toward that which supports the American worker, the American family, and businesses, both large and 
small, and allows our country to compete with other nations on a very level playing ﬁeld.”  Fact Sheet: 
President Donald J. Trump Restores American Competitiveness and Security in FCPA Enforcement (Feb. 
10, 2025), https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2025/02/fact-sheet-president-donald-j-trump-
restores-american-competitiveness-and-security-in-fcpa-enforcement/.  


Acting Director Lynne Parker 
Director Panchanathan 
March 14, 2025 
Page 4 
partner with the private sector, academia, and civil society when addressing issues of 
public concern associated with AI. We recognize and commend existing partnerships 
that have formed in the AI community to address these challenges, including 
protecting against harmful biases, ensuring democratic values, and respecting human 
rights. Any governance frameworks should be ﬂexible and driven by a transparent, 
voluntary, and multi-stakeholder process. Finally, any governance framework should 
also account for and look to align with other interconnected policy frameworks such 
as privacy or cyber. 
AI is a tool and does not exist in a legal vacuum and avoid establishing 
potentially duplicative and conﬂicting regulations that inhibit growth. Policymakers 
should be mindful that activities performed, and decisions aided by AI are often 
already accountable under existing laws. Where new public policy considerations 
arise, governments should consider maintaining a sector-speciﬁc approach that 
builds upon existing regulatory scaffolding while removing or modifying those 
regulations that function as a barrier to AI development, deployment, and use. In 
addition, governments should avoid creating a patchwork of AI policies at the 
subnational or international level and should coordinate across governments to 
advance sound and interoperable practices. 
B. Adopt Risk-Based Approaches to AI Governance (Principle 2)
Governments should incorporate ﬂexible risk-based approaches based on use 
cases rather than prescriptive requirements when governing the development, 
deployment, and use of AI technologies. An AI use case that involves a high risk 
should, therefore, face a higher degree of scrutiny than a use case where the risk of 
concrete harm to individuals is low. To avoid stiﬂing innovation while keeping up with 
the rapid pace of technological change, industry-led, voluntary accountability 
mechanisms should recognize the different roles companies play within the AI 
ecosystem and focus on addressing concrete harms to individuals that can be 
empirically linked to the use of AI technologies. Any regulation of AI should be 
speciﬁc, narrowly tailored to appropriate use cases, and weighed against the 
economic and social beneﬁts forfeited by its enactment. 
C. Support Private and Public Investment in AI Research and Development
(Principle 3)
Investment in research and development (R&D) is essential to AI innovation. 
Governments should encourage and incentivize this investment by partnering directly 
with businesses at the forefront of AI, promoting ﬂexible governance frameworks such 
as regulatory sandboxes, utilizing testbeds, and funding both basic R&D and those 


Acting Director Lynne Parker 
Director Panchanathan 
March 14, 2025 
Page 5 
which spurs innovation in trustworthy AI. Policymakers should recognize that 
advancements in AI R&D happen within a global ecosystem where businesses, 
universities, and institutions collaborate across borders.  
D. Build an AI-Ready Workforce (Principle 4)
AI brings signiﬁcant opportunities, as well as some challenges, to the 
workforce. Governments should partner with businesses, universities, and other 
stakeholders to train and build a workforce suited for an AI economy by supporting 
the development of skills needed to develop, manage, and use new technologies. 
Governments should also look at how to leverage AI for upskilling and reskilling 
purposes. These investments will ensure that workers are prepared to responsibly 
deploy AI tools and adapt to changing workforce needs. Moreover, policymakers 
should take steps to attract and retain global and diverse talent. 
E. Promote Open and Accessible Government Data (Principle 5)
AI requires access to large and robust data sets to function. Governments 
possess substantial amounts of data that should be made available and easily 
accessible in a structured, commonly used, and machine-readable format to 
accelerate the development of AI while ensuring appropriate and risk-based 
cybersecurity and privacy protections. Governments at all levels should improve the 
quality, accuracy, and usability of data sets through, for example, greater digitization, 
standardized documentation and formatting, and additional budgetary resources. 
F. Pursue Robust and Flexible Privacy Regimes (Principle 6)
Data is critical to the development of AI, and the repurposing of personal data 
may impact consumer privacy. Clear and consistent privacy protections for personal 
privacy are, therefore, a necessary component of trustworthy AI. Governments should 
pursue robust but ﬂexible data protection regimes to support data integrity that 
enables the collection, retention, and processing of data for AI development, 
deployment, and use, while ensuring that consumer privacy rights are preserved. 
Policymakers should look to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s Privacy Principles as a 
guide for pursuing data protection rules that foster innovation.  
G. Advance Intellectual Property Frameworks that Protect and Promote
Innovation (Principle 7)
The AI ecosystem is highly dynamic, routinely beneﬁting from collaboration and 
open research to fuel commercial innovation, which is often built on a range of open 


Acting Director Lynne Parker 
Director Panchanathan 
March 14, 2025 
Page 6 
 
source and proprietary components, such as software frameworks, data, and cloud-
enabled processing capabilities. Governments must provide clear and predictable 
standards that ensure full respect for IP protection and enforcement with respect to 
AI. Governments should also support an innovation-oriented approach that recognizes 
the strengths of an open AI ecosystem. Additionally, governments must not require 
companies to transfer or provide access to AI-related intellectual property, such as 
source code, algorithms, and data sets. 
 
H. Commit to Cross-Border Data Flows (Principle 8) 
 
The ability to move data across borders and access information determines the 
speed at which AI technologies can be developed and used in the global economy. 
The adoption of AI across different sectors and geographies is enabled by cloud 
computing, which broadens access to AI technologies, including for small and 
medium-size enterprises. Policies that restrict data ﬂows, such as data localization 
requirements, constitute market access barriers that will diminish AI-related 
investment and innovation and limit access to AI technologies. Governments should 
steadfastly commit to keeping data ﬂowing across international borders. 
 
I. Abide by International Standards (Principle 9)  
 
Industry-led, consensus-based standards, including AI technologies, are at the 
heart of digital innovation. The Chamber encourages policymakers to acknowledge 
and support the development of such standards in recognized international standards 
bodies and consortia. Furthermore, governments should likewise leverage industry-led 
standards on a voluntary basis wherever possible to facilitate the use and adoption of 
AI technologies and minimize the proliferation of conﬂicting or unaligned compliance 
regimes internationally. 
 J. Secure Beneﬁts for Small and Medium Sized-Enterprises (New) (Principle 
10)  
 
AI technology will increasingly play a pivotal role in the success and resilience 
of small and medium-sized enterprises (“SMEs”) and shaping how they compete in the 
global marketplace. Policymakers must recognize that fostering an environment 
conducive to technological innovation is essential for SMEs to thrive. 
 
K. Leverage Existing Beneﬁcial Cyber Defense Uses of AI (New) (Principle 
11)  
 


Acting Director Lynne Parker 
Director Panchanathan 
March 14, 2025 
Page 7 
AI is well-established in the marketplace serving as a key component in 
mitigation strategies employed by both enterprises and governments. The rapid 
progression in AI capabilities has, however, expanded the cyber threat horizon, 
intensifying the ongoing conﬂict where security experts are in a constant battle to 
match the pace of sophisticated technological threats. This dynamic has set the stage 
for a perpetual arms race between cyber defenders and their adversaries. Considering 
this it is imperative that any new policy framework adheres to the fundamental 
principle of “do no harm,” ensuring that it does not disarm cyber defenders of their AI 
tools which are essential for learning, adapting, and preempting threats within the 
ever-evolving cybersecurity threat environment. 
II. Further Recommendations for AI Action Plan
Although the preceding principles are key to providing long-term and 
sustainable economic growth for the United States, we recommend that the AI action 
plan also address further speciﬁc policies:  
A. The Need for a Consistent Policy Landscape
The Chamber is concerned that a fragmented policy landscape will lead to a 
patchwork of potentially conﬂicting federal and state artiﬁcial intelligence laws, 
adversely affecting entrepreneurs, small businesses, and the broader business 
community. Such a complicated regulatory environment could place small business 
and startups at a unique disadvantage if they are required to bear massive compliance 
costs.  
Many of the current and proposed AI laws, particularly in states, are based on 
the belief that current federal regulations do not adequately address the use of 
technology or that a gap in the law has emerged. Therefore, we urge the 
administration to take action to provide the necessary clarity and guidance from 
relevant agencies on how existing laws currently regulate Artiﬁcial Intelligence. 
Should agencies identify gaps in current law, we encourage them to report them to 
Congress for review and action. We also urge agencies to harmonize existing legal 
frameworks to prevent contradictory or overlapping regulations that could impede the 
responsible development of AI technologies. 
Congress should also prioritize asserting its constitutional authority to regulate 
interstate commerce to prevent a confusing state patchwork of regulations by 
preempting state laws, particular comprehensive AI, and privacy laws, where 
appropriate.  


Acting Director Lynne Parker 
Director Panchanathan 
March 14, 2025 
Page 8 
 
B. Policies that Promote an Open-Source AI Ecosystem  
 
The Chamber recognizes the beneﬁts of open-source technology. Open-source 
technology enables developers to build, create, and innovate across various sectors, 
driving future economic growth. Americans are already witnessing innovation in 
marketing, communication, cybersecurity, and medicine, among other ﬁelds. Access 
to model weights can signiﬁcantly enhance safety and security improvements in 
artiﬁcial intelligence by providing greater transparency, allowing ﬂaws to be quickly 
identiﬁed, and addressed. For this reason, the Chamber encourages the 
administration to invest in and build shared computing and data resources, such as 
the National AI Research Resource (“NAIRR”), to serve as the infrastructure for the 
open-source ecosystem. 
 
C. “AI Diplomacy” Strategy   
 
We agree with Vice President Vance’s observation that “this administration will 
ensure that American AI technology continues to be the gold standard worldwide and 
we are the partner of choice for others -- foreign countries and certainly businesses -- 
as they expand their own use of AI.”12  We encourage the  administration lead and  
engage with international organizations such as the G7, G20, WTO, and OECD, as they 
work to shape the global AI agenda. It is vital for the United States to work to 
establish AI frameworks that ensure other nations do not set standards or adopt AI 
policies that could undermine U.S. leadership, restrict commercial access, impede the 
deployment of AI-enabled products, or obstruct AI investments. 
 
D. AI Coordinating Role 
 
The Chamber sees great beneﬁt in establishing a designated coordinating role 
within the federal government to oversee AI policies domestically. As stated earlier, 
the Chamber has proposed the creation of an ofﬁce for the Assistant Secretary of 
Commerce for Emerging Technology to coordinate non-security AI policies throughout 
the Federal government.13 This role should aim to eliminate regulatory overlap or gaps. 
Additionally, this individual should function as the primary ofﬁcial working with the 
State Department to represent the domestic viewpoint in negotiations related to non-
security international agreements concerning emerging technology and the 
development of a global AI framework. Their efforts should look to support shared 
terminologies, deﬁnitions, risk management, and common standards. A coordinated 
 12 Remarks by the Vice President at the Artiﬁcial Intelligence Action Summit in Paris, France | The 
American Presidency Project  
13hƩps://www.uschamber.com/technology/u-s-chamber-leƩer-on-arƟﬁcial-intelligence-prioriƟes-2 


Acting Director Lynne Parker 
Director Panchanathan 
March 14, 2025 
Page 9 
approach would reduce ambiguity, facilitate clearer communication, streamline 
regulatory processes, and enhance collaboration across borders.  
E. Emphasis on Regulatory Certainty
Federal policies should encourage state and local regulations that support 
innovation. Speciﬁcally, streamlined regulations around permitting, access to energy, 
and environmental processes are essential to avoid hindering AI deployment. Clarity 
and certainty in the regulatory environment are crucial for businesses investing in new 
technologies. We urge the administration to develop updated policies and guidelines 
that promote further investment in the development of Artiﬁcial Intelligence. 
F. Strategic Investments in Advanced AI Technology
To address potential national security risks associated with advanced AI 
technology, investing in research to enhance the measurement of frontier model 
capabilities in national security-related areas is crucial. Developing narrowly tailored 
guidelines and security protocols for the most advanced AI models is essential. These 
guidelines should also be leveraged to establish shared understandings of frontier AI 
risks and to coordinate on international standards and security best practices. 
Furthermore, engaging with standards organizations, governance processes, and 
international bodies is vital to develop a consensus around security protocols that 
align with the U.S. approach. 
G. Nurture Market Based Competition
The U.S. AI industry is marked by competition from large and midsize ﬁrms, as 
well as a thriving ecosystem of startups, ensuring that innovation continues to 
ﬂourish. Ease of entry and exit is favorable for startups, particularly in software, while 
even capital-intensive areas like chip manufacturing maintain competitive dynamics 
because of heavy investment. The sector exhibits rising output, robust price 
competition, and a high degree of consumer choice, which are clear indicators of a 
competitive industry. This dynamic helps ensure that innovation beneﬁts a wide range 
of users, from individuals to enterprises. For these reasons, it is important that 
competition agencies at home and abroad refrain from misguided enforcement 
activities.  
H. Strong Standards Development Ecosystem
The United States must support a strong standards development ecosystem to 
ensure U.S. and democratic values are at the forefront of such standards. Standard 


Acting Director Lynne Parker 
Director Panchanathan 
March 14, 2025 
Page 10 
 
development organizations are uniquely able to develop best practice approaches 
developed collaboratively by the private sector, technical experts, civil society, and the 
government. Such nonbinding, self-regulatory approaches provide the ﬂexibility of 
keeping up with rapidly changing technology as opposed to laws that risk becoming 
outdated quickly.  
 
I. Support NIST's Risk Management Framework  
 
The National Institute of Science and Technology (“NIST”) has been at the 
forefront of engaging with domestic and international organizations to develop a 
globally recognized framework to better manage the risk of Artiﬁcial Intelligence. The 
value of this work can be seen through international harmonization and alignment to 
our AI Risk Management Framework (“RMF”) with guidelines from both the Japan14 
and Singapore.15 We encourage further efforts to align the AI RMF with other 
international frameworks.  
 
J. Ensure that the U.S. Remains the Top Destination for the World’s Tech 
Talent  
 
The United States currently faces a signiﬁcant shortage of highly skilled 
programmers and developers to help develop and deploy responsible AI. Our outdated 
immigration laws are a substantial obstacle for U.S. companies to overcome in 
meeting their high-skilled workforce needs. For the U.S. to maintain its global 
leadership in these innovative ﬁelds, we would encourage the administration to work 
with Congress to increase immigrant and nonimmigrant visas for these highly skilled, 
highly educated workers.  
 
K. National Science Foundation should develop and routinely update K-12 
Education guidelines.  
 
The National Science Foundation should routinely develop reports on education 
guidelines. These reports should be designed with input from state and local 
educational authorities. It should concentrate on establishing and providing essential 
guidelines to better prepare students for the use of AI and machine learning. There 
should be a separate report, developed with higher education institutions, which 
provides similar recommendations for colleges, universities, and graduate schools. 
 14 AISI Crosswalk to RMF GfB, Version 1.0  (AISI 2023), 
https://aisi.go.jp/assets/pdf/AISI_Crosswalk2_RMF_GfB_ver1.0.pdf. 
15 NIST-IMDA Joint Mapping Exercise  (IMDA 2023), https://www.imda.gov.sg/resources/press-releases-
factsheets-and-speeches/press-releases/2023/nist-imda-joint-mapping-exercise.  


Acting Director Lynne Parker 
Director Panchanathan 
March 14, 2025 
Page 11 
These reports should follow the standard Request for Information and Administrative 
Procedure Act processes, including opportunities for public comment.  
L. Importance of data governance practices to AI governance
The business community supports policies that support sound data governance 
practices that utilize high-quality data sets that are also important to help ensure that 
training data is secure, accurate, relevant, complete, and consistent. High-quality data 
sets are a critical precursor for precise and robust outputs. To ensure this high-quality 
data, we urge Congress to pass preemptive comprehensive privacy legislation based 
on laws in states like Texas and Kentucky that provide consumers data rights while 
enabling data to be used to improve and ﬁne-tune AI systems.  
M. Advance Digital Trade Rules
Strong digital trade rules serve to ensure our trading partners remain open to 
the deployment of AI in American goods and services.  Such rules are essential to 
prevent countries from using regulation to unfairly exclude U.S. companies from 
accessing foreign markets, thereby harming U.S. workers, and diminishing our 
competitiveness.  
N. The need for balanced export control policies
To effectively limit adversary access to critical technologies, regularly reviewing,  
analyzing, and updating the use of export controls is essential. However, to ensure a 
balanced approach that does not put unnecessary and excessively burdensome 
requirements on U.S. companies, the Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) will need 
to be adequately resourced and modernized, to monitor the AI supply chain and 
counter-smuɢling and other technology diversion efforts to foreign adversaries. It is 
also essential to implement these actions carefully to avoid creating competitive 
disadvantages for U.S. companies, particularly in instances of foreign availability of 
like technologies. A better resourced and more modernized BIS that can address 
foreign adversary concerns in an effective but balanced manner, coupled with 
streamlining of export licensing processes for U.S. companies, will be vital to ensure 
their competitiveness in the global market. 
O. R&D Tax Credits
Reauthorizing R&D tax credits, as part of extending the Tax Cuts and Job 
Growth Act of 2017, is crucial for fostering long-term sustainable technology growth in 


Acting Director Lynne Parker 
Director Panchanathan 
March 14, 2025 
Page 12 
the United States. These pro-growth policies would ensure that the country has the 
necessary capital and investment to drive innovation and maintain a competitive edge 
in the global technology landscape. By supporting research and development, the U.S. 
can continue to advance in critical areas such as artiﬁcial intelligence and quantum.  
Conclusion 
The Chamber appreciates OSTP’s and NSF’s role in developing a robust action 
plan to ensure the United States stays the “gold standard” of Artiﬁcial Intelligence. We 
believe that U.S. leadership is vital in protecting U.S. business interest domestically 
and internationally. The Chamber stands ready and willing to work with OSTP and NSF 
to ensure that the United States remains the leader in artiﬁcial intelligence.  
Sincerely, 
Tom Quaadman 
Senior Vice President 
Economic Policy 
U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
cc: The Honorable David Sacks, 
 Chair, President’s Council of Advisors on 
 Science and Technology 


