1 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD); National 
Coordination O ﬃce (NCO) for/on behalf  of the O ﬃce of Science and T echnology Policy 
Subject: AI Action Plan 
Utilidata, Inc.   
225 Dyer Street, Providence, RI 02903 
Angela Kassahun, Director, Policy & Market Development  
Re: Request for Information on the Development of an Arti ﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action  
Plan, Federal Register Number 2025-02305  
Utilidata appreciates the opportunity to submit comments to the O ﬃce of Science 
and T echnology Policy (OSTP) and the National Science Foundation (NSF) in connection 
with the Administration’s Arti ﬁcial Intelligence  (AI) Action  Plan.  
Utilidata has operated real-time machine learning software on the grid for over a 
decade. In 2021, Utilidata partnered with NVIDIA to co-develop an AI module 
custom-designed for the electric distribution grid, called Karman, after recognizing the 
need for more computing power at the grid edge in order to handle its growing 
complexity.  
Karman is built on an NVIDIA Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) to run distributed 
AI—the most advanced form of edge computing—allowing electric utilities to run multiple 
AI models locally without moving vast amounts of sensitive data to a central system. 
This distributed AI architecture decreases costs and improves reliability, security and 
outcomes. For example, advanced digital signal processing at the edge combined with 
local AI models can continuously identify relevant information in real time, such as 
anomalies that could lead to reliability issues, predict pre-outage conditions or pending 
equipment failure. AI-enabled, real-time edge visibility improves grid reliability, identi ﬁes outages 
befor e they occur and reduces the time it takes to recover from outages. This has a 
material impact for all customers. Most outage mapping and responses today rely on 
Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) data, which is dependent on communication 
system backhaul and more limited data systems, providing information delayed up to 
one-hour. Deploying distributed AI improves utilities’ reliability and resiliency through 
more granular analysis - sub-minute level - from more sites, more often. It also enhances 
utilities’ ability to more quickly diagnose issues in individual neighborhoods based on 
correlated grid edge data, such as transformer issues, before infrastructure fully fails.  Finally, distributed AI  also makes power more affordable. AI prediction models 
can be used to forecast customer program impacts and enable real-time program 
measurement and veriﬁcation. Utilities  can use this capability to inform program 
enrollment and design, with the result of lower customer energy bills.  
This document is approved for public dissemination  


2 
As utilities begin to adopt AI technologies, they will require a mix of centralized AI 
models and distributed AI models that run directly on the infrastructure itself. This 
architecture is widely utilized across industries, such as automotive, shipping, healthcare, 
and robotics. Distributed AI is more affordable and secure than solely relying on 
centralized models that require streaming large amounts of data back to a centralized 
location. For example, by operating distributed AI in a meter, most of the data would 
never leave the devices, thereby enhancing security and improving accuracy. These types 
of architectural decisions will be critical to utilities adopting safe and responsible AI 
practices.  
The electric grid is becoming increasingly complex and traditional physics-based 
models cannot respond to all of the complexity; instead, our electric grid needs 
well-managed AI systems to process multiple data sources simultaneously while 
managing rapid changes in real-time. Utilidata welcomes the opportunity to work with the 
Administration on AI policy measures that accelerate innovation and adoption of 
AI-powered technology, like Karman, that improve operations for electric grid 
infrastructure and provide affordable, reliable, and secure electric power to all Americans. 
This document is approved for public dissemination  


