1 
 
 
March 15, 2025 
Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) 
Executive Office of the President 
1650 Pennsylvania Avenue NW 
Washington, DC 20504 
Subject: Response to Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence 
(AI) Action Plan 
Dear OSTP Team, 
VEIR appreciates the opportunity to provide input on the development of the AI Action Plan. 
The growth of AI-driven data centers represents a significant means for America to maintain its 
global leadership in AI. However, the rapid increase in AI data center electricity use necessitates 
that the nation’s energy infrastructure, particularly our grid, keeps pace. We must expand our 
electricity systems rapidly while also ensuring that electricity remains affordable. The electricity 
load growth and associated infrastructure investments being driven by AI present an opportunity 
to double down on Department of Energy (DOE) Secretary Wright’s objectives of "strengthening grid reliability and security” and prioritizing “true technological breakthroughs,” while keeping 
electricity affordable for Americans. Furthermore, as more advanced AI chips are deployed, the 
power density requirements for data centers are increasing beyond the capabilities of traditional 
power delivery equipment. This ultimately affects the ability of data centers to maximize 
computing performance and infrastructure investment.  
VEIR’s ultra-high capacity, superconducting transmission can help the power grid scale quickly 
to meet upcoming demand by offering five to ten times the capacity within the same space 
compared to conventional technologies used today. Additionally, VEIR’s indoor power delivery 
solutions provide twice the power over ten times longer distances, using one tenth of the space 
and weight that would be required by conventional aluminum or copper busbars and busways. 
This offers data centers new ways to configure buildings to maximize computing capability. 
Advanced, high-density, power delivery solutions such as VEIR’s are an essential component for 
maintaining U.S. leadership in AI innovation, economic growth, and national security. 
Background on VEIR 
VEIR is pioneering high-density power delivery solutions that use superconductors and 
advanced cooling systems to enable the rapid scaling of new or existing power delivery systems, 
while providing high reliability and flexibility in design. VEIR’s high-density power delivery 
solutions take up less space than traditional solutions, allowing users to deploy new systems 


2 
faster or significantly expand capacity within existing spaces. VEIR’s systems also actively 
manage heat, providing consistent amounts of power regardless of ambient temperature. These 
advantages make VEIR’s technology particularly well-suited to meet the needs of AI data 
centers, which require reliable, high-capacity power solutions from grid to chip to sustain 
operations and growth. 
VEIR’s technology scales across voltage classes, from 48 V to 275 kV, and VEIR offers both 
high-voltage transmission lines to expand capacity in the grid as well as power delivery systems 
within data centers and on data center campuses to increase computing capability. VEIR’s 
superconducting technology can deploy in multiple AI-related applications, including: 
● Connecting new AI data centers and campuses faster or expanding the interconnection of
existing facilities.
● Optimizing power connections between data center buildings and on-site generation
assets for higher reliability and resiliency.
● Rapidly enhancing the resilience of regional grids serving AI hubs by enabling the
significant capacity expansion of existing lines or quick deployment of new lines.
● Optimizing AI data center layouts and performance by enabling high-power computing
clusters and flexible configurations.1
Prioritizing High Power Density Solutions to Accelerate AI Data Center Deployment 
The ability to connect AI data centers to a robust grid in a timely manner is essential to U.S. 
leadership in AI, and the ability to scale AI data centers while maximizing compute power will 
only make the U.S. more competitive. However, the current process for expanding transmission 
capacity is often slow and often out of sync with the rapid development cycles of new AI 
infrastructure. Furthermore, trialing newer indoor technologies requires the opportunity to 
engage in ongoing demonstrations and projects.  
Priority Actions for the AI Action Plan 
To accelerate the deployment of high-power density superconducting solutions, and ensure the 
nation’s AI growth, VEIR recommends the following actions be included in the AI Action Plan: 
1.Federal Support to Unleash American Energy Innovation
● Recognize superconductors as a strategic priority in national energy and AI infrastructure
planning.
● Provide funding for research, development, and deployment of modern superconducting
transmission technologies on the grid.1 VEIR indoor power delivery solutions create greater design flexibility by being able to span longer distances and 
take up less space than conventional busbars and cables. This also enables more servers to be spaced more closely, 
reducing latency and improving aggregate AI server performance.  


3 
● Provide funding for research, development, and deployment of modern superconducting
technologies that enable higher power density and higher performance of AI data centers.
● Facilitate collaboration between federal agencies, national labs, utilities, and AI data
center developers to advance superconducting solutions.
2. Streamlining Regulatory Approvals for High Power Density Solutions
● Require all federal agencies to adopt DOE’s National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)
categorical exclusion for reconductoring and rebuilding transmission lines.
● Establish a specific categorical exclusion for superconducting transmission projects to
expedite permitting. Superconductors can leverage existing rights-of-way to increase
capacity or offer significant capacity at voltages often excluded by state review
requirements.
Conclusion 
Superconducting technology represents a transformative solution for addressing the energy 
demands of AI data centers on the grid and within their walls. By explicitly supporting high-
power-density transmission solutions in the AI Action Plan, OSTP can help drive innovation, 
strengthen grid reliability, and position the U.S. as a leader in AI-enabled economic growth. 
VEIR welcomes the opportunity to serve as a resource to OSTP and looks forward to further 
collaboration on advancing AI and energy infrastructure policy. 
Sincerely, 
Tim Heidel 
CEO 
VEIR 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 


