From: Velma Root
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 11:50:20 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
I am a visual artist, a writer, and a photographer.
Artificial Intelligence technologies in the form of generative AI such as ChatGPT, DALL-E
and others rely on theft of the work done by me and millions of other artists and creators.  
AI in the form of chat bots and LLMs return wrong answers and false information in up to60% of queries. Not only does this add to the increasing firehose of misinformation, it is onlya matter of time before real people are injured or killed by taking these ‘answers’ as fact.
 
These AI technologies allow the creation of fake imagery that enables dangerous politicaldisinformation.
These AI technologies also consume massive quantities of energy, water, and space,
endangering the environment.
I believe that for these reasons, the current implementation of these technologies is immoral
and unethical and violates copyright law. These technologies should not be encouraged, aided,used, or subsidized by the government in any way.
 
I also recommend that any company providing or utilizing these AI technologies be requiredto obtain the written permission of every creator for each and every work it wants to use; thatthese permissions be secured before the company uses it; and that the company should berequired to immediately remove from their databases any and all work for which it does nothave such permission.
 
But I do not, obviously, give anyone permission to feed this document 
into a so-called "A.I." database or program.
Thank you.
“This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution." 


All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


