Before the 
NETWORKING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT
NATIONAL COORDINATION OFFICE, NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION,            
on behalf of the OFFICE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY  
In the Matter of 
Request for Information on the Development  
of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
COMMENTS OF VERIZON 
I.INTRODUCTION
Verizon appreciates the opportunity to inform the Office of Science and Technology
Policy’s (“OSTP”) Request for Information regarding the development of the Artificial 
Intelligence Action Plan (the “AI Action Plan”). The AI Action Plan will help “solidify [the 
United States] as the leader in AI and secure a brighter future for all Americans.”1  
Verizon uses AI to power and empower the way people live, work, and play. We use AI 
to enhance customer service by employing generative AI tools to personalize customer 
interactions, provide faster resolutions to inquiries, and assist frontline agents with real-time 
information retrieval. AI helps us optimize our network operations by predicting potential issues 
and improving network efficiency through predictive analytics and machine learning techniques. 
And we employ AI to help manage our supply chain, allowing Verizon to mitigate supply 
1 National Science Foundation, Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action 
Plan (rel. Feb. 6, 2025). 


disruption, optimize inventory, and reduce capital spending without compromising customer 
service or partner relationships.  
More recently, Verizon announced Verizon AI Connect, a strategy and suite of products 
and solutions designed to enable businesses to deploy AI workloads at scale. Leveraging existing 
real estate and network connectivity assets including Central Offices and telecommunications 
facilities, Verizon AI Connect enables AI that is closer to the consumer. While most data centers 
are being built in remote areas, Verizon’s existing Central Offices are in communities throughout 
our fiber footprint. This proximity to the consumer will reduce latency and encourage innovative 
AI development.  
Overly broad and prescriptive rules and restrictions will undermine AI innovation and 
deployment. As Secretary Lutnick explained to Congress, “if you unleash American ingenuity, 
the scale by which we will outrun, outpace, outperform the rest of the world will be incredible.”2 
America is at the forefront of AI technology; we should take strong action to retain that 
leadership. To achieve this, the Administration should establish a unified national AI framework 
that promotes private sector investment and expansion. This framework should avoid 
unnecessary regulation and oversight, assert federal authority on matters of national policy, and 
utilize existing public and private standards and norms to ensure adequate safeguards. II.A UNIFORM AND HARMONIZED DEREGULATORY NATIONAL STRATEGY
WILL BEST SOLIDIFY AMERICAN LEADERSHIP IN AI.
Verizon urges the Administration to adopt a consistent national AI strategy that fosters
innovation and global leadership in AI to promote its beneficial uses. This approach should avoid 
creating new AI-specific laws and regulations when existing tech-neutral regulations are 
2 Nomination Hearing - U.S. Secretary of Commerce: Hearing Before the U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, 
Science, & Transportation (Jan. 29, 2025) (statement of Howard Lutnick).  
2 


sufficient. Additionally, the strategy should ensure consistency across industries by applying 
similar policies to entities that develop or use AI in similar ways. 
The development of a national AI strategy should thwart the risks posed by the increasing 
fragmentation of AI regulation. Fragmentation is particularly a problem at the state level, as state 
legislators have rushed to regulate this burgeoning field based on hypothetical and often 
overstated potential harms. This fragmentation leads to higher complexity and compliance costs, 
hindering innovation and the development and deployment of AI tools and use cases. Businesses 
may simply decide to avoid jurisdictions that impose unreasonable conditions, robbing citizens 
of access to the economic and societal benefits of this new technology, whether those benefits are 
jobs creating and developing AI or use cases that can improve consumer welfare. Indeed, after 
Colorado passed the first comprehensive AI legislation in the United States,3 Governor Jared 
Polis acknowledged the law’s potential chilling effect on AI development and deployment in the 
state, urging the legislature to “fine tune the provisions and ensure that the final product does not 
hamper development and expansion of new technologies in Colorado that can improve the lives 
of individuals.”4  
A lack of harmonization also impedes U.S. AI competitiveness and leadership on the 
global stage, which should be a key focus of federal AI policy. Technology executives recently 
warned European countries against this very possibility, noting Europe’s “fragmented regulatory 
structure, riddled with inconsistent implementation, is hampering innovation and holding back 
developers.”5 As this Administration has stated, global leadership in AI will “promote human 5 Spotify Newsroom, Mark Zuckerberg and Daniel Ek on Why Europe Should Embrace Open-Source AI: It Risks 
Falling Behind Because of Incoherent and Complex Regulation, Say the Two Tech CEOs (Aug. 23, 2024), available 
at 
https://newsroom.spotify.com/2024-08-23/mark-zuckerberg-and-daniel-ek-on-why-europe-should-embrace-open-so
urce-ai-it-risks-falling-behind-because-of-incoherent-and-complex-regulation-say-the-two-tech-ceos/.  4 Governor Polis, Letter to Colorado General Assembly (May 17, 2024). 3 See Colorado Senate Bill 24-205 (2024).  
3 


 
flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security.”6  
A national AI strategy, centered around a pro-innovation, light-touch regulatory 
framework, will only be successful if it includes the necessary preemption authority to ensure 
that state regulation does not nullify the federal deregulatory framework. As discussed above, 
overzealous state legislators have flooded their legislatures with heavy-handed proposals that 
create complex and often conflicting regulatory regimes that will increase costs and hamper 
innovation. Nearly 700 bills related to AI were introduced in state legislatures in 2024, including 
a bill introduced in California that would have subjected developers to criminal liability.7  
Without clear federal preemption, any federal AI deregulatory efforts will be for naught, and 
American AI innovation, deployment, and dominance will be limited by the same regulatory 
regime this Administration seeks to countermand. As discussed below, the federal government 
should preempt even generally-applicable, pre-AI regulation to the extent that it unduly inhibits 
AI implementation. III. SPECIFIC STATE AND LOCAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS PRESENT 
BARRIERS TO AI DEPLOYMENT.  
Beyond legislation establishing a comprehensive regulatory framework for artificial 
intelligence, there are specific state laws and regulations that impede AI deployment and 
innovation. In many cases, these are existing laws, regulations, and even administrative 
processes that were implemented decades ago and have not been updated since. More 
specifically, laws pertaining to network infrastructure deployment, the regulation of legacy 
telecommunications networks, and energy transmission pose particular challenges.  
7 See Business Software Alliance, 2025 State AI Wave Building After 700 Bills in 2024 (Oct. 22, 2024), available at 
https://www.bsa.org/news-events/news/2025-state-ai-wave-building-after-700-bills-in-2024; Safe and Secure 
Innovation for Frontier Artificial Intelligence Models Act, CA SB 1047 (introduced Feb. 2024); see also Artificial 
Intelligence - Causing Injury or Death - Civil and Criminal Liability, MD HB 589 (introduced Jan. 2025).  6 Executive Order 14179, Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence (Jan. 23, 2025). 
4 


AI innovation requires not only algorithms and significant computing resources, but also 
the network infrastructure that can facilitate the seamless transfer and processing of large 
volumes of data between different computing units. Fiber optics serve as the essential backbone 
of modern networks, enabling data movement that requires a high bandwidth, low latency 
connection to support the demanding computational needs of AI applications. But deploying the 
backbone requires buy-in and support from government agencies that review applications and 
permits. These agencies too often approach their responsibilities in an adversarial, rather than 
collaborative, manner.  
Permitting processes for approval to lay fiber in the rights of way around state roadways 
are illustrative. State and local permit authorities often lack more modern processes such as 
end-to-end electronic permitting and application processes and parallel review of permit 
applications across multiple departments and government agencies. Use of manual processes, 
serial review/approval, and multiple review and approval points tend to slow down and 
complicate the process of obtaining permits for deployment of fiber optic broadband facilities. 
Providers encounter situations where approval is required from multiple agencies, but each 
agency wants some assurance that plans are final (i.e., have received all other necessary 
approvals) before beginning their own review. Providers also encounter situations where issues 
regarding work on one project may result in local authorities suspending review of permit 
applications for other, unrelated projects.  
In many jurisdictions, there are no “shot clocks,” firm deadlines, “deemed approved” 
frameworks, or other arrangements that would serve to constrain agency delay in processing 
applications. In other jurisdictions, reviewers may stop their review of an application upon 
finding a deficiency, and only resume the review once that deficiency is addressed. This can 5 


result in a single review process being interrupted and suspended multiple times, as each 
deficiency is identified, corrected, resubmitted, and the process resumes. These types of 
inconsistencies and inefficiencies can add significant time and cost to the process of deploying 
metro-area, inter-city, and inter-state fiber broadband networks, making investment in the 
networks that will support AI infrastructure riskier and more costly. Recognizing that leading the 
world on AI will take a whole-of-government approach, the Administration should take 
measures to encourage other levels of government to provide the same kind of support for AI 
innovation and deployment.  
Existing laws and regulations pertaining to network infrastructure also present barriers to 
AI deployment and innovation. As discussed above, Verizon recently announced Verizon AI 
Connect, which leverages existing real estate and network facilities, including Central Offices, to 
enable businesses to deploy AI workloads at scale. By utilizing our existing infrastructure, 
Verizon can reduce costs to businesses while bringing AI capabilities closer to customers, as our 
facilities are often in the heart of the communities that we have served for decades. This not only 
means less latency as computing signals have even less distance to travel, but it also means that 
the benefits of AI deployment – access to jobs, economic stimulation, and infrastructure 
development – can be enjoyed by more communities across America. However, because Central 
Offices fall under legacy telecommunications regulations, transforming these spaces to support 
the 21st century economy is often stymied by red tape and outdated regulations. For instance, 
laws in New York and Pennsylvania require notice to regulators and, in many cases, review and 
approval of any new use, lease, or sale of Central Office space.8 Regulators in these states may 
also impose conditions on the use of any revenues generated within those spaces, or require 
telecommunication companies to offer use of the space to other companies, including 8 See, e.g., New York Public Service Law § 99; 66 Pennsylvania Statute § 1102. 
6 


 
competitors, on similar terms.  
Misguided energy regulations can also have a chilling effect on AI deployment. While 
traditional AI data centers will require significant amounts of energy, Verizon’s existing network 
resources can serve smaller-scale AI deployments that are less energy intensive. However, well 
meaning but misguided energy regulations can thwart such developments. For example, 
Washington, D.C. and Boston assign all buildings to an energy “category.” Based on a building’s 
designation, certain energy requirements must be met. While these energy requirements are 
achievable for the building if the use case remains consistent, introducing a new use case, like 
facilitating AI, will result in fines. Getting a building designation changed is the purview of the 
building owner, who may leverage the opportunity to extract a payment in addition to covering 
the costs of the effort. In New York City, Local Law 97 sets carbon caps for large buildings 
based on the property type of the building. Verizon Central Offices were designated “office 
buildings” under that law, which made meeting compliance requirements virtually impossible 
because office building energy limits assume that the building is only in high use during typical 
office hours. Central Office spaces, however, including Central Offices that can support AI 
processing, are operating 24 hours a day, seven days a week.  
Not only are Central Offices subject to these strict energy limitations, but state and 
federal laws can make it difficult for providers to transition their networks away from 
power-intensive copper networks that utilize energy that could otherwise be diverted to 
innovative AI use cases. For example, there are Federal Communications Commission (FCC) 
regulations that require an elaborate, resource-intensive, and time-consuming network testing 
process if a provider were to try to discontinue traditional copper-based telephone voice service, 
or to switch customers to alternate technologies.9 In the nine years this network testing process 9 See 47 USC § 214(a); 47 CFR § 63.71. 
7 


has been in place, only one carrier has used it to seek FCC authority to discontinue copper-based 
service in a specific area, a prerequisite for shutting down central office equipment.10 And many 
state regulations impede the migration of customers from traditional copper networks to 
alternative technologies. 
IV.CONCLUSION
Verizon is a global leader in building networks that support and inspire innovation. We
are excited to do that for the coming AI revolution, and appreciate the Administration’s 
consideration of the legal and regulatory framework that will make that possible.   
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ Melissa Tye   
Melissa Tye 
Associate General Counsel 
VERIZON 
1300 I Street, N.W., Suite 500E 
Washington, D.C. 20005 
(202) 515-24000
March 14, 2025 
10 See Network Performance Test Plan of AT&T, WC Docket No. 24-220 (filed July 19, 2024). 
8 


