1 
Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
Contributor and Submission: Victoria Brewer 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
The Impact of Artificial Intelligence within the Creative Community and Entertainment 
Section I: Workforce 
Artificial Intelligence and the precedent that it sets has monumentally impacted the current and 
future state of the entertainment industry’s workforce. Within the last 3 years, the American 
entertainment sector has lost thousands of jobs, displacing professionals across the television, 
film, animation, VFX and video game sectors. Within 2024, the elimination of 15,000 jobs has 
thrust the entertainment industry as well as its professionals into a severe position of economic 
uncertainty.  Professionals have vocalized that their circumstances have become vague not only because of the 
current status of their household economics from losing their primary source of income, but in 
tandem with the emerging situation that job growth within this industrial sector has either 
stagnated or disappeared entirely. In short, after professionals have lost their jobs, there is no 
recourse for them being able to definitively attain work within their chosen sector or with regard 
to their previous income and lifestyle dependency on said income, because the industry has 
frozen in its prospects of taking on any potential workforce.  
This is as a result of the precedent Artificial Intelligence has set within the strategic decision 
making of leaders within the entertainment industry. It has posited within their understanding 
that the work of specialized professionals, those so ingrained in the skills required of their fields 
that their placement within other sectors is limited, can be substituted with the fantastical 
prospects that AI promises and promotes. It is because of this that job growth and the 
opportunities for these specialized working professionals will dwindle into non-existence. As 
workforces are slashed down to populations of a mere few, either out of spite to unionized forces, 
cost cutting measures, or hyper profitability models, every tactic will be played to reduce 
profitable, stable, dependable, livelihood-supportive work for creative professionals within any 
section of the entertainment industry.  


2 
Artificial Intelligence furthermore sets a greater precedent for the participation of the 
entertainment workforce within their desired career spaces, day to day operational 
responsibilities and their ability to adequately perform in the specifics of their roles. Artists and 
creatives undergo a period of training, be it personal, institutional, lifelong, apprentice or mentor 
based. It is through this period of training that they gain the necessary skills to adequately 
perform within professional spaces and to be utilized as an labor asset to the production of 
entertainment production, whatever that may take the form of. It is this training period, however 
long and that bodes whatever results, that has them directly build a basis of knowledge, accuracy, 
skill and craftsmanship. One that utilizes their unique perspective, impression and abilities to 
issue forth valuable results that businesses utilize for production and subsequent profits from that 
production.  
Artists were trained to perform in their raw ability, with results only transformed by the abilities 
of additional human creative input. Artists were not trained, nor encouraged, nor took on lengthy 
periods of training, to utilize AI as a component, crutch or substitute to the creative process. 
There are many artists who have taken on this professional and career-long pursuit to directly 
participate in the action of creative conception, solely by merit of their human input, untainted by 
the generated product of Artificial Intelligence. Human art making is an forwarded impression of 
human intelligence, moment to moment decision making, perspective, diligence and dedication. 
It is the right of the human to determine how they are to conduct said pursuit and it is 
unquestionably justifiable for them to deny the request of an institution, business entity, manager, 
executive or otherwise to incentivise them to utilize AI as a component to the process of art 
making.  
Artists, over the course of human history, are fundamentally hired by their skill and the product 
that skill is able to realize. For an artist to be forced as a business tactic to utilize a technology 
that does not express their individual skill not only diminishes their importance within this field, 
and discounts the value of their labor, but also diminishes their value within the available 
professional market altogether. It is the starting and perceived continual discounting of this labor 
force that will decline the value of the business’ product, revoke the prospect of proper 
compensation, create unfair working conditions, incentivise  a system of intimidation by those in 
power, dissolve the mental fortitude of laborers and eventually destroy this industry from the 
inside out.  
AI cannot be adopted into pipeline processes and forced into the hands of creatives as a means of 
producing any form of work within the entertainment industry.  
Section II: Intellectual Property 


3 
Artificial Intelligence was trained on the foundation of intellectual property. There is no open 
form of documentation to concretely present forth the argument that this was not the case. 
Regardless of the ethical implications and sourcing of this mass collection of data from across 
the world, any usage of AI to produce anything calls into question what exactly the source 
material can be verified as, who produced it, what conditions it was created under and who 
officially created it. AI’s muddied water of connecting produced material to its sources issues an 
impossible task, one that even its creators would not be able to decipher or undertake.  It is with this in mind that we call into question the ownership of Artificially Generated 
materials, be they visual, video, writing or otherwise. We are well aware of the concept of 
creative ownership. We are well aware within the entertainment industry of artistic consensual 
releases or the integration of Intellectual Property to be used within a production space with 
consent given by the current owners of said property. Artificial Intelligence does not only 
complicate the process of displaying true ownership of that which it generates, but it blurs the 
lines when considering its integration within the legalese of production spaces, the ownership of 
profit off of works that include it, the rights to which owners hold can distribute or can adapt said 
works and much more ambiguous notions.  
If AI has been trained off of the works of all of humanity, its boundaries non-existent in public 
disclosure or understanding, than it is logical to posit that any artist whose work has been used to 
train an AI model can claim ownership over any work that utilizes the generated material from 
said model. Or that the work that stems from an AI model, be it a foundation for later change or 
its immediate integration into a production, is owned by the AI model and its creators itself.  It is an impossible nightmare to sift through the logical assertions to which ownership of any 
intellectual property is to be understood when adapting AI into any circumstances. Prior to AI 
there were truly real outlined barriers of events and individuals and action that could be properly 
assigned to various forms of documentation, contractual obligation, releases, legal ownership and 
profitability.  
The adaptation of AI into any large scale professional production sets the notion that at any 
point, any AI company, leader, etc, can procure and determine ownership of any work produced 
by or with generated materials. By extension, any measures to skim profit from business entities 
within entertainment and funnel it into the accounts of AI companies revokes profitability from 
the industry itself, removes the ability for works to be independently produced in the future, sets 
forward a greater potential for investor power instead of agency by the business itself, and 
further removes opportunity from the field. 


4 
The stipulations of ownership and profitability must be definitively outlined within smaller scale 
agreements and broader legislation to properly define the procedures to which ownership is 
conducted and legally solidified from one party to another.  
Section III: Economics 
Entertainment in the current era of media has never before been such a consistent part of human 
being’s day to day lives. Its visibility is immeasurable and the profits of successful works has 
never before been more attainable at all levels. However, the integration of AI will destroy the 
current state of profitability for entertainment into the foreseeable future.  
Human beings over the course of human history have created works solely by vocalizing, 
delivering and transforming their perspectives within an accessibly digestible format. Be it 
through the usage of any medium, this practice has occurred throughout human consciousness 
and has been seen as a pure form of expression and as a means of sharing depthful information 
throughout time. Human beings are each individual, with their own perspectives, minds, 
reactions, stances, memories and experiences. Each stimulus ingrained in their being from the 
moment they start understanding the world around them, one that creates who they are 
throughout their life. It is through the creation of artwork that we outwardly share these traits 
with one another. It is through the consumption of these works that we adopt new experiences, 
curate new memories, learn more from ourselves and others, and progressively share in a 
collective consciousness. That is not a practice that can be overtaken by the generation of 
material produced by Artificial Intelligence. It is the direct conversation of one human being to 
another. That is invaluable. It will forever exist.  
The adoption of AI within creative spaces and the production of artistic material is a futile 
attempt to pull the focus of the masses to a novel piece of technology. That they may have their 
fun playing with the possibility of realizing anything onto a screen. But in the economics of 
creative business, this is essentially useless. It is not the existence of a work itself that derives the 
possibility of profit, but the value that the product creates alongside the desire of its consumer 
base to purchase it. Within entertainment, it is the divulgence of human expression that is the 
core facet of why humans consume this particular product.  
Human beings do not enjoy being lied to. They do not enjoy falsity. Although they may be 
temporarily enraptured by false promises and façades they will eventually grow bored of 
entertainment that does not speak directly to them. Entertainment that captures their attention, 
posits new ideas never before considered and leaves them hungry for another installment. AI 
cannot produce work that resonates with audiences on a fundamentally core level, because AI 
does not possess the unique experiences that a human being would, and AI cannot adapt its own 


5 
experiences into digestible artwork. AI does not have a story to tell and does not have one that 
can be sold either.  
The entertainment industry in 2024 brought in $1 Trillion dollars of value, and it could bring 
about even larger profits if more works were produced by larger populations of utilized talented 
professionals working in conditions that directly promote the quality of their output, creating 
even more opportunities for profitability growth from any type of production or business entity. 
AI disrupts this potential and the entertainment industry, with its leaders attempting to sell its 
consumer base a product that they will never gain effective ownership over that holds no real 
value. The general GDP of the United States of America could be even greater if it would utilize 
the resources and assets that it currently has at its disposal within the workforce of the 
entertainment industry instead of diminishing their value and overtaking their responsibilities 
with a valueless substitution. 
Human made art will prevail amongst humanity. It is one of the most impactful actions any 
human being can participate in. AI would not exist if it did not steal and utilize whatever power 
still existed from the source material even when degraded and stripped for its parts. Independent 
entertainment will continue to rise as artists take back their agency in production. They will deny 
the inclusion of AI into their practices. Artists, unsurprisingly, want to actually make art.  
All this period serves to do is redirect attention and falsely promote AI as an otherworldly power, 
to propose that it could ever possibly do the work of a human, an idea that humans clutch on to 
with controversy and conversation, ones that are an asset to public recognition and profit. AI has 
disrupted the greater entertainment industry. It has removed power from artists within 
professional spaces. It has cast away their financial security, destroyed their career prospects and 
pushed them into dire circumstances. It will take a lot of passionate individuals to rebuild this 
industry to what it once was. But for as long as human beings exist, they will have the desire to 
create, be it beautiful works that inspire the masses and create greater connection with one 
another, or destructive technological systems that revoke our rights, rape the product of our labor 
and call us worthless in turn.  
Legislation must be passed and the procedures of the entertainment industry must be 
distinctively weighed and outlined for a sustainable practice into the future, including AI or not. 
Or else one of the last industries of the United States unaffected by tariffs and produced solely 
through labor, will cease to exist and further contribute to the downfall of America’s economic 
state.  


