VISTRA CORP. RESPONSE TO 
NETWORKING AND INFORMATIO N TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND 
DEVELOPMENT NATIONAL C OORDINATION OFFICE’S  
REQUEST FOR INFORMATION 
I. INTRODUCTION
Vistra welcomes the opportunity to provi de input on the Offi ce of Science and
Technology Policy’s (OSTP) Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan.  This document is approved for public dissemination. The doc ument contains no business-pr oprietary or confidential 
information. Document contents may be reused  by the government in developing the AI Action 
Plan and associated documents without attribution.     
Vistra would like to provide input on the need  for clarity on wholes ale electricity market 
and transmission policies.  The Federal En ergy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has direct 
responsibility to approve wholes ale electricity market  rules and electric transmission cost 
allocation and open access policies.  The Administr ation can provide leader ship through a clear 
articulation of its policy goals to guide FERC’s decision-making process. 
 As discussed below, Vistra urges the Adminis tration to make clear that FERC should take 
action to provide the policy certa inty necessary to f acilitate the interconnection of large data 
center loads that are critical to our nation’s securi ty and economic growth.  These large loads will 
seek a variety of electric supply arrangements , including co-locating wi th existing generation 
resources.  The Administration should make clear that FERC should ensure that all supply 
options are accommodated.  It is imperative that FERC choose a path that is achievable and will 
produce sufficient policy certainty and clarity with  requisite speed.  The United States is in a 
global race for data supremacy which may be won or  lost based on investments made in the next 
several years.  FERC has already been deliberating on this topic for n early a year.  It is 


-2-imperative that FERC not close the door on this geopolitically pivotal in vestment opportunity, 
whether through further delay or actions that constrai n market opportunities.   
Some parties may seek to delay wor k to inte rconnect data center electric load in the 
absence of a clear articulation of the willingness to facilitate all supply arrangements, including 
co-location arrangements.  As a result, the current policy vacuum is undermining efforts to meet 
the specific needs of data center developers.  Allowing that policy vacuum to persist will 
handicap the nation’s ability to attract and retain cr itical large loads of all types, not just data 
centers.   
Vistra recognizes that FERC has initiated a policy-making effort in one centralized 
wholesale market.1  We remain hopeful FERC will take qui ck action to fill the policy vacuum 
with market-oriented solutions.  Nonetheless, Vist ra believes it would be beneficial for the OSTP 
to establish high-level policy ex pectations though its AI Action Plan.  To that end, Vistra 
encourages OSTP’s AI Action Plan to adopt the following high-level principles: 
Support for all data center supply arrangements, including co-located load and
generation arrangements
oThe OSTP’s AI Action Plan should recognize that data center interconnections to our
power grid are critical to economic growth and our national security, and the policy of
the United States is to faci litate these interconnections.
oLarge load interconnection processes s hould be conducted in accordance with open
access principles, in a manner that ensures non-discriminatory treatment of all supply
arrangements, including co-located load and generation arrangements.
Large electric loads should pay for the services they use
oRecognizing the myriad of supply arrange ments, transmission providers, including
Regional Transmission Organization (RTOs), n eed to offer flexibility, and potentially
identify different rate structures, to ensure th at large electric loads pay their fair share,
but not more than their fair share.  Rate st ructures that require large electric loads to
pay more than their fair shar e risk making it easier for foreign competitors to attract
investments in data infrastructure that  would be deployed in the United States.
1PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. , 190 FERC ¶ 61,115 (2025) (“PJM Show Cause Order”). 


-3-oTransmission providers, including RTOs, shoul d ensure that trans mission rates do not
discriminate against data centers relative to other large loads.
Any concern about re source adequacy should be addressed through capacity market
or other resource adequacy constructs
oResource adequacy concerns from incr easing load growth are important to
acknowledge and address.In the medium- to long-term, the solution is  ensuring that price signals suffice to
bring online, and keep online, resource s that ensure resource adequacy is
achieved.
In the short-term, the policy of the United States should encourage, but not
mandate, market-based solutions to incentivi ze large loads to provide flexibility in
periods of system stress.
oWhile resource adequacy may be a valid concern generally, transmission providers,
including RTOs, must not create hurdles or otherwise inhibit integration of data centerload as a means to addre ss such resource adequacy concerns.  Specifically, the
Administration should make clear that co -located behind-the-meter data centers
should not be slowed down or prohibite d as a way of slowing down overall load
growth to address resource adequacy con cerns.  Doing so not only discriminates
between customers who connect front-of-th e meter and those who co-locate with a
generation resource but it also inhibits the speed to power that customers are seeking.
New large loads should be allowed, but not be required, to bring their owngeneration as a condition of inte rconnecting to the electric grid
oWhen customers choose to contract w ith new generation sources, transmission
providers, including RTOs, should adopt policies to better  coordinate the
interconnection of new load a nd new contracted generation.
oNew large electric loads that support artificial  intelligence should be  able to contract
with both new and existing competitive generation resources throughout the United
States, including in areas where vertically integrated utilities have been granted an
electric supply monopoly.
II. ABOUT VISTRA
Vistra is a leading, Fortune 500 integrated  retail electricity and power generation
company based in Irving, Texas, providing esse ntial resources for customers, commerce, and 
communities as the nation’s larg est competitive power provider a nd one of the nation’s largest 
competitive retail providers.  Through its subsid iaries, Vistra operates in six of the seven 


-4-competitive markets in the U.S..  Vistra owns and operates approximately 41,000 MW of 
generation and storage resources with a diverse portfolio of tec hnologies.  V istra also provides 
nearly five million residential, commercial, and industr ial customers with re tail electricity and 
natural gas service.   
III. COMMENTSA. The Policy of the United States Shoul d Support All Electric Supply Options,
Including Co-Located Load and Generation Arrangements
The starting point for any AI policy should be  the recognition that interconnection of new 
large electric loads represents a foundational element of the Un ited States’ economic prosperity 
and national security.  There are a myriad of op tions for electric supply  arrangements and load 
and generation configurations (i .e., front-of-the-meter load, ne w load co-located with new 
generation, and new load co-located with existing generation).  The first two supply 
arrangements will take time to materialize.  Indeed, some transmission providers have initiated a moratorium on new data center interconnections.
2  It is critical that transmission providers, 
including RTOs, look for flexibility in the governing rules to best  facilitate all supply 
arrangements, including co -location of new load w ith existing resources, to the extent they are 
fundamentally consistent with ope n access principles.  In the near -term, co-location of new load 
with existing generation will be critical to limit the possibility th at the US will fall behind in the 
global AI race. 
New large loads will seek a variety of arrangements that suit each customer’s unique 
preferences and needs.  Co-location is an i ndustry imperative driven by consumer demand for 
products and services that requ ire advanced computing and the data center infrastructure on 
2In the Matter of th e Application of Ohio Power Company for New Tariffs Related To Data Centers and 
Mobile Data Centers , Case No. 24-508-EL-ATA (Ohio PUC May 13, 2024) (establishing a moratorium on taking 
new data center customers until a new tariff is in place). 


-5-which it relies.  Co-location arrangements are an important option for customers, especially in 
the near -term, as they seek to expediently come online.  At the same time, co-location 
arrangements of all types—whethe r for data center load or other large commercial and industrial 
loads—ultimately support resour ce adequacy by attracting ne w investment capital.  Steady 
electric load growth provides electric genera tion resource developers , and investors, with 
confidence that price signals will not necessari ly be short-lived.  De lay in accommodating such 
arrangements will mute investment signals and cause that capital to be sent elsewhere, 
potentially overseas. 
B. Large Electric Loads Should Pay for the Services They Use
Discussions within the electrici ty sector suggest there is a wide consensus that large 
electric loads, including co-located loads, mu st “pay their fair share” of system costs.3  Vistra 
agrees that co-located loads that take servic e from the grid should pay their “fair share.”  
However, where the rubber meets the road on this issue is in how to determine what constitutes a 
“fair share”—and whether the “fai r share” is, in some cases, zero.  The guiding principle on this 
issue should be FERC’s long-standi ng policy that the system charge s for a load that offsets its 
use of the system through co-located generation should be based on the load’s actual  use of the 
system on a net basis.4  To that end, it is imperative to recognize that  not all large loads use 
transmission service; it is entirely possible for co -located loads to be fully isolated from the grid 
and designed to never, or very rarely, take serv ice from the grid.  In su ch configurations, the 
Commission’s task is to ensure that such loads are not charged an unfair share by charging them 
3PJM Show Cause Order at P 22.  
4See Motion fo r Leave to Answer and Answer of Vistra Corp., Docket Nos. ER24-2888-000, et al. , at 2-11 
(Nov. 19, 2024). 


-6-for more than their actual use of  the system or by wrongl y treating them as s imilarly situated to 
other customers that take service exclusively from the grid.  
In setting policy on transmissi on service to large loads, re gulators should approach their 
regulatory responsibilities with the flexibility necessa ry to account for the many types of co-
location configurations.  Each large load cust omer has different commercial, technical, and 
operational needs, which requires a bespoke contra ctual arrangement and f acility configuration.  
Recognizing that each such configuration is unique, regulators s hould not attempt to make policy 
that is intended to fit a particular type of c onfiguration.  Rather, regulators should focus on how 
the combined facility is impacting the system wh ere the energy leaves or enters the transmission 
system.  The regulator’s sole cons ideration in determining whether, or how, to charge a load for 
transmission system costs should be whether and, if so, how the customer’s net  load impacts the 
grid. 
This concept is well developed because co-loca tion of load with a generator is not new.  
It dates back at least to the early implementati on of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act 
over forty years ago, which has been successfully used to serve a broad range of large load 
configurations, incl uding arrangements in which heavy indus trial facilities have  co-located with 
large co-generation facilities.5  In several other contexts sin ce that time, FERC has made clear 
that load’s system charges, and indeed the ve ry presence of a FERC-jurisdictional transaction, 
should be measured based on the load’s actual us e of the system as dete rmined based on its net 
use.6  In fact, one RTO (PJM) has long administere d its Behind-the-Meter Generation rules based 
5See, e.g., Co generations Tech. & Dev. Co. , 31 FERC ¶ 62,299, 63,449 (1985) (approving certification of a 
co-located co-generation facility in 1985). 
6See, e.g., Mi dwest Indep. Transmission Sys. Operator, Inc. , 106 FERC ¶ 61,073 at P 24 (2004); Cal. Indep. 
Sys. Operator Corp. , 143 FERC ¶ 61,100 at P 30 (2013). 


-7-on this very principle and, in accepting those rule s, FERC found that the use of netting in that 
context “encourage[s] qualifying entities with behi nd the meter ge neration to reduce their use of 
the PJM transmission system.”7   
Vistra submits that there is no ground for dis tinguishing co-located lo ads from other loads 
such that co-located loads’ grid charges are not based on their actual us e of the system, while 
other loads grid charges are dete rmined based on that principle.   To avoid undue discrimination, 
all similarly situated  loads should be treat ed similarly.     
C. Any Concern About Resource Adequacy Should Be Addressed Through
Capacity Markets or Other Resource Adequacy Constructs
Some have suggested that policies with respect to large electric load s hould be dictated, at 
least in part, by resource adequacy concerns.  As explained further below, such suggestions are 
misplaced.  While there are resource adequacy ch allenges looming in some regions, regulators 
should seek to address the actual causes of those challenges, rather  than blame load growth.  In 
other words, regulators should view load grow th as an opportunity to improve resource 
adequacy, rather than viewing resource adequacy  as a constraint on the United States’ load 
growth.  To achieve that end, FERC should strive for capacity ma rket reforms that create the 
proper incentives to add the needed infrastructure to meet the continued resource adequacy needs.  Adopting punitive policy m easures for certain types of load  in an effort to slow down 
load growth and thereby address such resource adequacy concer ns would be ill-conceived and 
perhaps unlawful.   
Further, Vistra asserts that adopting such an approach for co-lo cation configurations 
would be regressive, actually making it more  difficult to maintain resource adequacy.  At the end 
7PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. , 107 FERC ¶ 61,113, at P 27 (2004). 


-8-of the day, improving resource adeq uacy requires attracting c apital.  A market and regulatory 
framework that supports large loads and customer s’ right to efficiently deploy capital for co-
location arrangements will send a clea r signal that investment in ge neration resources is needed.  
A framework that does not support large electric load customers in that way will send a clear 
signal that the market does not welcome the load  growth that would support investments in new 
generation.  Such a policy will also put the United States behind in the global race to develop and 
deploy artificial intellig ence innovations, to the detriment of national security, the United States’ 
economy, and general social  well-being.        
Some electricity industry partic ipants have asserted that new large load co-located with 
existing generators is “taking megawatts off the grid,”8 Vistra asserts that such assertions are 
fundamentally flawed.  Those assertions implic itly assume that the lo ad at issue would not 
materialize on the grid in the absenc e of a co-location arrangement.  Vistra believes that that is a 
flawed assumption because large loads will more often than not eventually show up on the grid 
in front-of-the-meter if a co-location arrangement is unavailable; it will just take them longer and 
it will be more expensive, including potentially requiring grid upgrades or additions the cost of 
which are spread to all customers..  As a re sult, there is no meaningful resource adequacy 
difference between loads interconnected behind-the-meter and in-fr ont-of-the-meter.  Those who 
assert that behind-the-meter co-lo cation is taking megawatts off th e grid are merely engaging in a 
thinly-veiled plea to slow down load growth so  the markets can address resource adequacy 
concerns first.  That is not only an unlawful basis for denying an inte rconnection, it is also a 
recipe for undermining resource adequacy  and harming the national interest.   
8See, e.g. , Larg e Loads Co-Located at Generating Facilities , Transcript of November 1, 2024 Commissioner 
Led Technical Conference Regarding Large Loads Co-Located at Generating Facilities, Docket No. AD24-11-000, 
at 39:4-12, 114:4-7. 


-9-By no means should the above be interpreted to downplay the importance of resource 
adequacy and capacity market issues related to  new lar ge loads—whether or not they are co-
located.  However, those issues should be a ddressed through market improvements, not large 
electric load policies.  While Vistra continue s to believe that resource adequacy markets 
represent a sound medium-term so lution to the resour ce adequacy challenge posed by load 
growth, a near-term solution might also be warrant ed.  Finding market-based methods to enhance 
the flexibility of large loads during periods of sy stem stress could provide the type of operational 
flexibility that could help  maintain reliability un til investors have time to respond to the capacity 
market’s medium-term investment signals.  Recognizing the potential in this space, the Electric 
Power Research Institute recently announced the DCFlex initiative to test strategies for 
enhancing data center flexibility.9   
D. New Large Loads Should Be Allowed, Not Be Required, to Bring Their Own
Generation as a Condition of Inte rconnecting to the Electric Grid
To address perceived resource adequacy conc erns, some have suggested that new large 
loads should be required to contract with new ge neration as a condition of interconnecting.  This 
suggestion is misguided and count er-productive.  Just as it wo uld be unreasonable to mandate 
that a developer of a large real estate project bring its  own generation to serve its load, so too 
with large data and industrial f acilities.  That type of mandat e would be a recipe for chasing 
capital overseas.  In contrast, providing develope rs the opportunity to do so where it makes sense 
commercially and technically creates optionality will attract  capital and foster innovation. 
In fact, there are many existing generating re sources on today’s grid that run far below 
their maximum capacity factor over the course of a year.  Policy should encourage that new large 
9EPRI Launches Initiati ve to Enhance Data Center Fl exibility and Grid Reliability , EPRI (Oct. 29, 2024), 
https://www.epri.com/about/media -resources/press-release/yimz JV2Xnv9cqiZTaU1zxBeDlEtwYQk1 . 


-10-data center loads are able to contract with exis ting resources to soak up this excess capacity 
before billions are invested in building new generation.10  In reality, resource adequacy concerns 
around data centers are focused on the very few hours of a given year in which the maximum 
output of the grid is needed to ensure reliabi lity.  On most average days, there are generating 
resources that are not generating their full output and these resour ces can be used to power data 
centers.  During the relatively few hours of the year that thes e resources’ maximum output is 
needed, data centers often have backup generation that can be utilized to allow them to 
effectively curtail their grid demand.  Utilizing these existing re sources is a much faster and 
more economic way of supplying data center lo ad than potentially overbuilding brand new 
baseload generation.   
As discussed above, new large loads are as much an opportunity to address resource 
adequacy as they are a challenge to resource ad equacy.  In our experien ce, many potential data 
center customers are interested in  a combination of existing and new generation to get online as 
quickly as possible and then to get to the desired scale.  Requiring new AI data centers to wait to 
interconnect until new generation can be interconn ected will handicap the United States’ ability 
to maintain the lead it enjoys in the AI race.   
While Vistra opposes a “bring-your-own-generation” mandate, we believe there are 
several reforms that can encourage new AI da ta center customers to  contract with new 
generation.  These reforms would allow better coordination between th e load and generator 
interconnection processes and give new AI data ce nter loads greater choice  in their electricity 
supplier. 
10See e.g., Norris, Tyler, Timothy Profeta, Dalia Patino-Echev erri and Adam Cowie-Haskell 
(2025). Rethinking Load Growth: Assessing the Potential for Integration of Large Flexible Loads in US Power 
Systems . Retrieved from https://hdl.handle.net/10161/32077 . 


-11-New AI data center electricity loads can have  difficulty con tracting with new generation 
because the load interconnection process is typically separate  from the generation 
interconnection process.  In regi ons with an RTO, the load interconnection process is largely 
conducted by the local transmission owner a nd the generation interc onnection process is 
conducted by the RTO.  As a result, the new AI data center load ca nnot be confident the 
generator with which it would like to contract w ill be interconnected when the data center is 
ready to come online.  Any policy that allows the load and generation interconnection processes 
to better coordinated will therefore increase the likelihood AI data centers will contract with new 
generation.    
This issue is fairly new and has not be nefited from much discussion by market 
participants.  Vistra offers several ideas to fa cilitate additional discussi on.  First, a transmission 
provider, including an RTO, could create a joint load and generation inte rconnection process that 
would allow the interconnecti on study to account for the exis tence of the generator when 
studying the load, and vice versa.  This could minimize the transmission system upgrades needed 
to interconnect both the load and the generator, speeding the in terconnection of both.  Second, as 
part of this joint process, th e transmission provider or RTO could study the joint application on a 
priority basis given the study should be more st raightforward.  Finally, FERC could choose to 
give RTOs primary responsibility for all load interconnections so th at the RTO is better able to 
account for the combination of new load and new generation when conducting interconnection 
studies.  This would allow investors to make an  apples-to-apples comp arison of the time and 
financial resources associated  with different locations, f acility configurations, and 
interconnection options. 


-12-Due to the configuration of the fiber optic network and the tendency for data centers to 
cluster in the same geographic re gion, some new AI data centers may have a limited choice of 
electricity supplier.  Specifically , new AI data centers may want to locate in the territory of a 
monopoly vertically integrated uti lity.  In this circumstance, the new AI data center is typically 
limited to buying power from  the monopoly utility at its existing tariff rates.  The new AI data 
center essentially must accept wh atever price, terms, and cond itions the monopoly offers if the 
customer wants power.  The lack of  competition increases cost to the new AI data center and also 
could eliminate the sense of urgency the monopoly u tility feels to provide service.  Rather, the 
new customers simply have to wait until the monopoly utility finishes planning, procurement, 
contracting, and regulatory processe s before it gets the utility’s co mmitment to provide electric 
service.  In order to meet the opportunity and national security imperat ive of winning the global 
AI race, new large electric loads that support arti ficial intelligence should be able to contract 
with competitive generation resources throughout the United States, including in areas where 
vertically integrated utilities have been granted an electric supply monopoly.11  Allowing data 
centers to access competitive markets and negotiate  directly with independent generators will 
yield all the benefits of compet ition and also protect the monopoly utility’s other customers from 
potential cost shifts.   
11See e.g.,  Todd  Glass, “Achieving AI dominance through competitive power markets,” Utility Dive , January 
27, 2025, available at  https://www.utilitydive.com/news/ai-data-ce nters-competitive-power-markets/738275/.  


-13-IV. CONCLUSION
Vistra appreciates the opportunity to submit this input into OSTP’s AI Action Plan and
encourages the Administration to consider them in  determining how to effi ciently and effectively 
accommodate the co-location of large loads at generation facilities.   
Respectfully Submitted, 
/s/ J. Arnold Quinn  
J. Arnold Quinn
SVP of Regulatory PolicyAndrew WeinsteinVice President, FERC Market Policy325 7
th Street NW
Suite 520Washington, DC 20004
Dated: March 15, 2025 


