 
2900 K St NW  
Washington, DC 
20007 USA Volvo Group North America  https://www.volvogroup.com  1(2) 2025- 03-15 
Suzanne H. Plimpton, 
Reports Clearance Officer,   
National Science Foundation  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue,  
Alexandria, VA 22314  
Re:  Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan (2025 -02305)  
Dear Ms. Plimpton,  
Volvo Group writes in response to the National Science Foundation Networking and 
Information Technology Research and Development National Coordination Office’s Request for Information (“RFI”) on the “Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan,” which w as submitted on behalf of the Office of Science and Technology 
Policy (“OSTP”)
1. Volvo Group fully supports the Trump Administration’s commitment to 
maintaining American leadership in AI and recognizing its potential to drive innovation 
and economic growth. As a company at the forefront of transportation technology, we 
believe that AI is essential to the future of transportation solutions , and the optimization 
of our transportation  and energy  infrastructure.  
Volvo Group has made significant strides in leveraging AI to accelerate the deployment 
of modern transport solutions . Our AI -driven solutions enhance fleet management, 
improve vehicle maintenance, and increase safety —further demonstrating the crucial role 
AI plays in advancing transportation. Volvo Group’s autonomous truck s, already 
operational in real -world environments, exemplify the practical benefits of AI in boosting 
productivity and safety on America’s roads.  
We encourage the Administration to incorporate specific recommendations for 
autonomous and connected transportation solutions  into the AI Action Plan, recognizing 
their importance in addressing challenges such as road safety, supply chain and energy 
efficiency. It is vital that we maintain a pro -innovation environment, where policies 
support AI advancements and allow the private sector to drive solutions. A clear and 
1 Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan, 90 Fed. 
Reg. 9088 (Feb. 6, 2025). This document is approved for public dissemination. The document 
contains no business -proprietary or confidential information. Docu ment contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  


2900 K St NW  
Washington, DC 
20007 USA Volvo Group North America  https://www.volvogroup.com  2(2) consistent federal framework will foster competitiveness, encourage investment, and 
keep the U.S. ahead of global competitors.  
In line with the Administration’s goals, Volvo Group is committed to developing AI solutions that not only enhance transportation efficiency but also promote economic growth, national security, and a sustainable future. We stand ready to work with the 
government to ensure that AI technologies are developed responsibly, while securing 
America’s position as a leader in the global transportation industry.  
Kind regards,  
Aravind Kailas, Ph.D.  
Advanced Technology Policy Director 
Volvo Group North America  
T. 
About the Volvo Group 
Volvo Group drives  prosperity through transport and infrastructure solutions, offering 
trucks, buses, construction equipment, power solutions for marine and industrial applications, financing and services that increase our customers’ uptime and productivity. Founded in 1927 , the Volvo Group is committed to shaping the future 
landscape of sustainable transport and infrastructure solutions. The Volvo Group is headquartered in Gothenburg, Sweden, employs almost 100,000 people and serves customers in more than 190 markets. North America
 is a major market for the Volvo 
Group, employs more than 17,000 people, and operates 10 manufacturing and 
remanufacturing facilities in seven U.S. states, as well as three plants in Canada and one 
in Mexico.   


