Ensuring US Leadership and Security in AI through 
Neuromorphic and Photonic Implementations of Artificial 
Intelligence  
Wade Tr appe  
Mable Fok  
Paul Prucnal  
This doc ument is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.  
Note: This document is being submitted by three individuals as a submission from 
private citizen s. The views and positions presented in this document are those of the 
authors alone, and do not represent the views or official positions of the respective employing institutions.  


Introduction 
The Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) has issued a Request for 
Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan. We anticipate this 
RFI will receive numerous submissions that explor e strategies to advanc e mainstream artificial 
intelligence and machine learning  approaches  that promise to grow a national workforce 
trained in AI, and that propose the deploy ment  of a wide array of infrastructure investments to 
maintain the US’s leadership in AI. The purpose of our submission , which represents the view 
of three private citizens, is to present two important problems  that might not be adequately 
represented in other submissions, as well as two separate technologies that the authors of this 
response believe deserve a place in the nation’s AI toolbox. Lastly, we pull these two 
technologies together into a final opportunity for the AI Action Plan that aims to combine both 
of their advantages.   
The two concerns  that we believe need to be addressed are: 
•The extremely large amount of computation and therefore energy needed for the
most powerful forms of AI,
•The national security risks associated with AI implementations reliant on electronic
components, such as semiconductor -based computing.
To address these two unique challenges, we believe that there are two distinct technologies 
that the nation should pursue in parallel with advancing AI’s current technological trends. Specifically, we believe that neuromorphic computing, and implementations of AI primitives 
and full y operational AI algorithms in photonic circuitry are cutting- edge technologies that the 
US must support in the future.    
This document will provide a brief overview of the two challenges and then identify the 
opportunities that can arise from investing in neuromorphic computing and photonic AI/ML 
implementations.  For both approaches , we will present recommendations on how the nation 
can advance the development of these complementary technologies.   
Computing , Energy  and National Security Risks  
The abundance of data being collected and made available to the wide array of algorithms  
that we will rely upon in our  daily living will increase rapidly, especially as we continue to deploy 
more sensors and actuators in our world in an effort to improve how our nation operates . 
Unfortunately, the sheer volume of data and increasingly prohibitive amount of computing 
needed for training extremely  large- scale  AI/ML  algorithms will eventually  place signiﬁcant  stress 
upon both the nation’s computational  infrastructure, as well as the nation’s power  grid. The US 
has witnessed several noteworthy failures in its power  grid infrastructure. The 2003 blackout, 
which hit the Northeast and Midwest regions , was attributed to software malfunctions and high 
demand, placin g catastrophic stress on the nation’s aging electricity grid. Another set of 
examples were the rolling blackouts in California in 2006 and 2020 , which  resulted from surges 
in demand driven by high summer temperatures. Taken together, the power  grid failures that 
the nation has experienced indicate that the US  needs to make every  effort to reduce the stress 


that a projected surge in AI computations c ould place upon our power grid. Meanwhile, t he 
nation must also invest in a next -generation power grid that can reliably meet the surging 
electricity demand driven by growing consumer usage and the rapid deployment of nation-
scale data and computational centers.  
While a nationwide increase in computing could place significant stress upon our nation’s 
power delivery infrastructure, and lead to increases in utility prices for the average American 
citizen, there is a separate risk that the nation faces if we become entirely reliant on computing 
based on conventional semiconductor electronics. Electronic components emit electromagnetic emanations that can be subject to various forms of eavesdropping and electronic espionage 
directed against our nation’s computing and telecommunications infrastructure. As more of our 
nation’s important decisions and analyses utilize AI algorithms, the corresponding communication and computational infrastructure must be protected from nation- state 
adversaries that monitor the US’s innovation and business operations. Further, electronics -
based computing is also fragile and susceptible to intentional use of electromagnetics that can disrupt and damage our computing investments. An adversarial application of high- power  
electromagnetic emissions  (EMPs) has the potential to induce currents in circuitry that exceed 
the tolerance levels of electronic components. This could result in the failure of our nation's 
investments in high- performance computational infrastructure for artificial intelligence.  
Opportunity-1: Invest in Neuromorphic AI 
The predominant approaches to AI algorithms, such as large language models  and 
convolutional neural networks , require enormous computing power. Eventually, in a future where 
the computing requirements for conventional mainstream AI continue  to grow, there will be many 
applications that cannot utilize computationally expensive, data -rich approaches to AI . This will 
leave the US behind in developing the full spectrum of AI solutions that our nation requires . 
Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop alternative versions of AI/ML that achieve significant improvements in algorithmic efficiency, dramatically reduce energy requirements, and 
which could maintain US advancement across the full spectrum of data- driven AI applications . 
One philosophical view for how advancements in AI development has progressed in the 
past decade is that researchers have been focused on developing bigger and better algorithms 
while throwing larger and faster computation resources at the problem. Although this has led to 
many noteworthy successes, it also fails to leverage the evolutionary insights that nature provides in terms of how we could design better and naturally efficient  approaches to 
implementing artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms.  
The human brain is a highly advanced “biological computer” that is also energy -efficient: it 
is able to perform complex calculations while consuming less power than a conventional light 
bulb. It achieves this through an optimized combination of sparse activation, parallel processing, 
adaptability, and analog- style computation. These advantages have led to an alternate approach 
to computing, known as neuromorphic  systems, which use hardware and algorithms that 
emulate human neurons and their known advantages. Neuromorphic computation could lead to  
a significant advancement in AI by making it more energy -efficient and suitable for solving 
problems that require real -time intelligence. In short, neuromorphic computing offers  a huge 
advantage for the US to invest in.  


The current generation of neuromorphic chips, as illustrated by Intel’s Loihi and IBM’s 
TrueNorth, are based on spiking neural networks, which only activate the neurons when needed. 
This fact implies that unnecessary calculations are not performed, and would mean that AI based 
on neuromorphic computing can be orders of magnitude more scalable. One approach to neuromorphic computing uses s pike-timing -dependent plasticity (STDP) , a biological learning 
rule, which is a promising candidate for next -generation AI models because of its energy -
efficiency  and its ability to support real -time learning in future AI implementations.  
Recommendat ions for a National AI Action Plan:  
•Launch Milestone- oriented National Challenges:  To support rapid development and
breakthroughs in neuromorphic AI, we believe the nation should build upon the model of
DARPA Grand Challenges and hold contests with specific high- stretch performance
milestones  (e.g. energy efficiency or reduction in computation for a benchmark task). The
prizes should incentivize taking bold risks for innovation.
•Launch Prototyp e-oriented National Challenges:  A similar approach to the milestone
challenges, but the focus here would be on giving a set of prototype goals, such as alifelike robot that uses neuromorphic computing to learn from its sensor data and
demonstrates improved performance over time.
•Prepare Adjacent Industries for Rapid Integration:  There are many application areas that
could benefit from neuromorphic AI advances, and the associated industries must beprepared to quickly integrate. Having s trategies ready that encourage adoption, such as:
oCreating t ax-incentives for adopting new neuromorphic  technologies ;
oReduc ing licensing charges for initial product  market launch;
oHosting industry -day events that facilitate the connection between vendors with
problems and vendors with solutions
would kick start industrial growth. 
•Defense Integration Plan: There are many applications in the realm of national defense
that could benefit from neuromorphic computing, such as advancing human- computer
interfaces, robotics and human- assist augmentation. The nation should develop a
separate action plan for how different AI technologies can be integrated into DoD and
NASA applications.
•Public -Private Think Tanks for AI:  To ensure that the nation has the best minds advancing
neuromorphic computing approaches to AI, we would recommend the nation developing
a “think tank” that is focused on supporting a broad array of approaches to AI, such as
neuromorphic computing, privac y-preserving AI, and AI on quantum computing. The US
needs to be ready to maintain research across the full spectrum of AI approaches to
ensure it has a full repertoire for national competitiveness.
Opportunity- 2: Invest in Photonic Implementations of AI  
There are fundamental hurdles impeding the continued success of electronic -based 
computing for large- scale AI. Electronic circuitry built upon semiconductor technology is energy 
inefficient due to the inherent resistance- induced heat ing, architectural bottlenecks, and current 
leakage in the chips. As a result, AI implementations reliant on electronics will always carry the baggage of energy inefficiency and heat production. Other issues, such as the increase in power 


densities for nanometer scale electronics and quantum tunneling point to limits in what can be 
accomplished through electronics, and will require expensive and energy -intense approaches to 
cooling AI computational centers. We believe that the nation needs to strongly invest in alternative computing paradigms that can minimize the long- horizon burden upon our nation’s 
energy infrastructure.  
Computing based upon optical signals, or photonic computing, employs light signals as the 
basis for computation and offers a more natural approach to reducing energy than is possible 
with electronics. When transmitted through appropriate photonic materials, photons experience 
almost no resistance and thereby produce significantly less heat and energy loss than 
electronics.  This fact also implies that photonic computing, when fully developed, can operate 
faster than electronics since photons have only weak interactions with their media, while 
electronic signals inherently experience interference in semiconductor materials. Further, light -
based computation can utilize multiple wavelengths to achieve natural levels of parallelism, 
which contrasts with  the serial nature of digital electronics.  To summarize,  strictly in terms of 
architectural advantages for computing,  photonic computing has the following advantages over 
conventional electronics:  
•Generates minimal heat,
•Easier thermal maintenance,
•Higher data rates,
•Easily parallelized.
Another significant advantage is that photonic implementations for computing would not suffer 
from the national security risks associated with electromagnetic phenomena:   
•Photonic circuits generate almost no electromagnetic emanations, which makes themideal for secure communications since they are essentially unsusceptible to Van Eckphreaking and other forms of electromagnetic eavesdropping.
•Photonic circuits are built using dielectric materials, which makes them inherently lesssusceptible to inducing large current spikes that are associated with electromagneticpulses.
Consequently, photonic circuits offer increased resilience to eavesdropping and denial of service threats, making them an ideal platform for building new and secure AI algorithms.   
Recommendat ions for a National AI Action Plan:  
•Support Research and Development in Miniaturization:  Photonic circuitry will benefit from
advancements in miniaturization, and ultimately lead to reduced power requirements,lower manufacturing costs, and easier integration into applications.
•Address National Photonic Supply Chain Constraints : Photonic materials depend on rare
earth materials and have high- purity requirements, which has led to challenges in the US
supply chain for photonics. The US must ensure it has a complete photonics supply chain
that is robust to geopolitical constraints.
•Invest in Creating a Photonic Ecosystem:  Unlike the semiconductor  industry, the photonic
industry has  yet to achieve the benefit of economies of scale. Investments in regional
photonic innovation hubs, as well as in a manufacturing sector in support of photonics ,
would allow photonic AI implementations to move forward more easily .
•Establish Software Industry for Photonic AI:  There is an urgent need to develop a
software industry that can support the implementation of AI algorithms using photonic


devices, much like the software industry supports AI implementation on semiconductor 
computers.  
•Host National Competition for Data Loading and Access:  One challenge facing AI
implementations, and particularly on photonic circuitry, is the disparity between
processing speed and importing data from memory registers. The government should
invest in innovative photonic solutions like architectures that co-l ocate memory with
photonics, and optical memory  technologies such as holographic data storage.
Opportunity- 3: Photonic Neuromorphic AI 
Neuromorphic approaches to implementing AI provide a technological path to achieving 
reductions in computational requirements, making it more energy -efficient and suitable for 
solving problems that require real -time intelligence. Photonic computing also provides a path to 
achieving reduction in heat and energy loss, provides unique security benefits, supports parallelized algorithm implementation, and ultimately faster computations.  Pulling both 
technologies together into a single, unified approach to AI offers unique advantages that should 
be considered as part of the national AI Action Plan.  
Neuromorphic photonic computing (NPC) explores both ultra- efficient brain- inspired 
photonic neural networks and ultrafast photonic hardware for computationally demanding machine learning (ML) techniques in modern artificial intelligence (AI). In the past decade, NPC has made a successful transition from free- space optics and fiber optics and discrete optical 
components to employing silicon -photonics -based integrated hardware. The community 
developing NPC solutions is primed and ready to embrace further technology breakthroughs 
and innovations in silicon photonic foundry platforms, photonic neural network microarchitectures, and more. It is expected that the further research and technology development of NPC in the next 5- 10 years will result in transformative impacts on computing 
and solve many  challenging problems in important applications in robotics, edge computing, 
physical system simulations, computer vision and avionics . 
With silicon photonics, NPC leverages some of the ideal features of photonics, such as 
parallelism with multiple wavelengths, ultra- low latency with time -of-flight processing, high 
bandwidth with lightwave, and nonlinear dynamics to support scalable integration of complex 
photonic neural networks. The fundamental computing node of an NPC network is the photonic 
neuron. Each photonic neuron's key functions include independent weighting of multiple inputs, summation, and nonlinear transformation. These operations can be mapped and implemented 
on a silicon photonic integrated circuit using microring resonators (MRRs). Wavelength division 
multiplexing (WDM) enables lightwave signals at different wavelengths to share the same transmission medium (such as optical fiber or waveguide), and is a key commercial technology 
used in tele- communication networks. In a WDM -compatible photonic neural network, each of 
the input signal s (data) are mapped to different wavelengths for wavelength- dependent 
weighting and parallel detection of multiple wavelengths for summation.  
While developing photonic neural networks is an initial component, integrating these 
optical neurons together into a fully working system requires that additional technological hurdles 
are overcome.  Some of these challenges include:  
•Neuromorphic AI algorithms implement real -valued calculations, which introduce
complexity in implementation, as well as when storing such calculations in optical memory


architectures.  
•Algorithmic feedback, which is a foundational primitive to achieving adaptation in AI
implementations, requires timing and synchronization to avoid instability in photonic
implementations, thus requiring more careful engineering and design.
•Networks of photonic neurons introduce quadratic scalability challenges,  leading to
challenges in preventing crosstalk in physical layouts, as well as challenges inwavelength assignments for large neural networks.
As a result, neuromorphic photonic circuits introduce additional technical challenges when 
compared to either neuromorphic computing or photonic computing. These challenges, though, deserve to be pursued and overcome as part of the national AI Action Plan because the 
advantages of AI implemented through neuromorphic photonic circuits would provide the US a 
unique competitive edge in AI technologies.  
Recommendat ions for a National AI Action Plan:  
•Establish  Long- Horizon Federal Funding:  Neuromorphic photonic c omputing  and
implementing AI on NPC represents a longer -term technology investment, and likely will
require a decade- long investment by a funding agency, such as DARPA, to fully address
technology hurdles.
•Support US Graduate Students in NPC : The US must invest in developing an advanced
and talented workforce that is trained in both photonics, computing, and artificial
intelligence disciplines. To achieve this, the nation needs to expand the portfolio of Ph.D.
fellowship programs that exist in AI, photonics, and neurocomputing.
•Host National NPC Architecture Competition:  There is a specific need to develop the best
photonic neural network microarchitectures  for the NPC field to utilize in making further
advancements. To foster such innovation, the nation should hold a national competition
specifically focused on photonic neural network microarchitectures, with suitable prizessuch as startup investments.
•Improve  SBIR/STTR Program s: Currently, US SBIR/STTR funding programs have a flaw
in how they are designed. M any innovative technologies and successful companies fail
because of funding gaps that exist between program phases, causing the US to
effectively lose its investments .  The design of the SBIR/STTR funding ecosystem should
be improved to foster the success and survivability of companies that have achieved good
performance for their technology  and hit target benchmarks . 
•Encourage Venture Capital Investment in NPC:  Venture capital investments are a
powerful tool that the US can use to spur innovation in high- risk and high- payoff
technologies like NPC and AI. The nation should encourage venture capital investments
through mechanisms by providing matching funds, or tax incentives in high- risk fields like
neuromorphic photonic computing and AI.
•Mechanisms to Encourage Technology Transfer:  Universities are often the home to
emerging technologies, like NPC, and often those technology discoveries end there. The
US needs to develop a suite of mechanisms that facilitate technology transfer and
licensing from universities to startups and industries willing to take the risk for maturing
technology development and bringing new technologies to the market.


DISCLAIMER:    This document is  being submitted by three individuals as submission from 
private citizen s. The views  and positions presented in this document are those of the authors  
alone, and do not represent the views or  official positions of the respective employing institutions. 


