From: Wallace Butler
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] AI Action Plan
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 10:01:58 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
AI is deeply wasteful, expending truly ridiculous amounts of energy to shuffle training data
around to create the facsimile of intelligence. There is no future for America with AI, and anypeople pushing for AI development should be under heavy regulations.
AI is fundamentally theft. Training data is needed to make any progress at all, training data
that gets made by people. whether it's art, books, music, video, no matter what it is, AI istaking work created by humans, shuffling it, and pretending to have made something novel. Itis theft of intellectual property, it is a violation of copyright, and it is a deeply cynical thing todo with the sum total of human knowledge.
AI is an excuse to fire people. A wide variety of industries have sought to replace human labor
with AI, reducing jobs and ruining livelihoods. Not only can AI not acquire the livedexperience of humans, something that makes humans flexible and able to respond in sensibleways to novel situations, but even if it could we have humans who already have thatexperience now.
 
AI does not comprehend what it says, or what is said to it. It is fundamentally incapable ofunderstanding. It doesn't learn language, it learns patterns in data and replicates those patterns.It learns what words follow other words, and uses those to make reasonable-sounding repliesthat can range from deeply wrong to dangerous to simply nonsensical in context. AI shouldnever be used for decision making, and should really never be used for anything without closehuman oversight.
 
The regulations that were in place were a good start, but they should really be even stronger:ensuring companies that want to train AI models use only data that they acquire ethically andwith consent of the creators, limiting their maximum energy usage, etc.
 
The results of deregulating AI would be bleak for Americans and America.  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the governmentin developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.
This document may not be used to train any AI models.
 
Thank you for your time,
Wallace Butler, resident of Illinois and Teacher's Aide
All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.


If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


