1 
Office of External Affairs and Government Relations  
AI to Advance U.S. Competence in Agriculture, Sciences, and Engineering 
Response to Notice of Request for Information (RFI) on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Action Plan  
Bethany Johns  
Assistant Director , Federal Relations , Washington State University 
Email:  Phone: 
Jacob Dowd  
Director , Federal Relations, Washington State University  
Email:  Phone: 
Ananth Kalyanaraman  
Professor , School of EECS , AgAID  Institute Director, Washington State University  
Email:  Phone: 
Kim Christen  
Professor, Vice President for Research, Washington State University  
Email:  Phone: 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution . 
Washington State University (WSU), the land -grant university for the State of Washington 
and a n R1 research institution  under the Carnegie classification system  with world -
renowned programs in agriculture, computing, engineering,  health, and sciences, 
appreciates the opportunity to provide a response with actionable recommendations the 
Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP)’s 2025 Request for Information (RFI) on the 
development of Artificial Intelligence (AI) action plan. 
I. Opportunity


2 
Office of External Affairs and Government Relations  
Much like the Manhattan era of the ‘40s and Apollo moon  mission era  of the ‘60s , we are at  
a pivotal moment in the nation’s history. AI provides a potential breakthrough opportunity 
to significantly transform the state of science, engineering, and health  in the U.S . society. 
More specifically, a  data revolution  – fueled by a rapid and pervasive adoption of s ensing, 
mobile, and advanced measurement technologies  – has allowed science, engineering, and 
life science domains including health and agriculture to gather data at breakneck speed. 
This digital data explosion represents a treasure trove of information, opening  the doors for 
scientific inquiry, discovery, and progress,  at an extreme scale. Fortunately , U.S.  is also  
leading the AI revolution in the world , making significant and foundational strides in AI 
technology, its research and development, and its practice at industrial scale.  Therefore, 
the U.S. is a t a key strategic advantage to capitalize on both these advances, through 
active integration of AI into the scientific enterprise  of discovery, engineering technological 
innovation, revolution izing agricultural food production , and delivering on the promise of 
human health  and well -being . The realization of this  strategic  mission for AI to effect social 
good  hinges on our ability to bring about  a system -wide  integration and incorporation of AI 
into every aspect of  the commercial and public enterprise . This systemic assimilation  
holds the  key to enabling a sustained pathway to economic prosperity, increased exports 
and food security, and fortified U.S. leadership in the global stage in the areas of science, 
technology, and innovation. 
Selected examples of key opportunities where AI plays a major role in science and 
technology solutions include:  
•AI for accelerated scientific discovery at all scales, from molecular to individual to
population level s;
•AI for sustained intensification of agricultural production, breeding resilient crops
and reducing crop loss, reducing labor - and economic - uncertainties , and
increasing farm  productivity  and farm  worker productivity;
•AI for optimized use and smart stewardship of environmental resources including
water, energy, and soil, and for improved air quality ;
•AI for securing our power grid, renewable sources, aviation fuels, and bioenergy
alternatives;
•AI for accelerated drug discovery, early detection of diseases, preventing and
mitigating the threats of infectious diseases, and improving human health and well -
being;


3 
Office of External Affairs and Government Relations  
•AI for advanced manufacturing , advanced semiconductor design,  and advanced
materials design; and
•AI for transportation, construction, and advanced structural design.
Academic institutions  and in particular , public land -grant universities such as WSU will 
have to play a lead  role in steering this AI revolution . First, these academic institutions 
are the innovation engines of cutting -edge research in AI  and all other related 
technologies, as well as the main drivers of fundamental research in science, engineering, 
agriculture, and health domains. Therefore, these institutions are ideally positioned to 
serve as the breeding grounds of foundational AI rese arch alongside its applications 
through “use -inspired AI”  research in various diverse domains and at the interfaces 
between various disciplinary boundaries. Secondly, these i nstitutions are also the 
primary engines of training the next -generation workforce development . Students 
obtaining four -year degrees and advanced graduate -level degrees represent the future of 
our industry and research  workforce , and  their early exposure to AI and its uses will be key 
in securing the future of our AI industry as well as commercial sectors that would benefit 
from the use of AI. Finally, academic institutions also serve as the primary hub for the 
broader community outreach  through agricultural extensions, industry  training programs 
such as  bootcamps, research and development partnerships  with national labs and 
industry,  and student camps and teacher -training at the K -12 level . These programs offer a 
vehicle to educate, train, and raise awareness of AI among the communities (including 
both urban and rural communities) across the socio -technological spectrum, thereby 
creating a sustained pathway and system in place to gradually introduce and increase the 
responsible use of AI and related tools into various private and public sectors of the 
society. 
II. Recommendations
1)Investment in u se-inspired AI  research, development, and deployment
An increased investment is needed in use -inspired AI, where the research,
development, and deployment of AI tools are all inspired by concrete uses. AI has
numerous potential applications across various domains. Yet, the type  and class  of
AI needed  across these domains  varies widely  to suit their respective uses :


4 
Office of External Affairs and Government Relations  
oAI for science  involves accelerating discovery through smarter experimental
design , reduction in  candidates for testing  through virtual screening , active
and adaptive learning, automated hypothesis extraction toward causal
inference, knowledge  and rule  extraction from high dimensional and
relational data, reasoning frameworks for process modeling, foundation
models for scientific exploration and to create simulation abstractions.
oAI for engineering  involves optimization, design space exploration and
design automation, stress and extreme -condition testing, robotics and
automation, transferability across platforms and systems and transferability
from simulation to real -world, reproducibility and simulation capabilities
through digital twins.
oAI for agriculture  involves precision agriculture, trait optimization, robotics,
automation and human -AI workflows  to reduce labor costs and improve
farm productivity , site -specific models for d ecision support, spatio -temporal
modeling, robust training under uncertainty and using limited and noisy data,
predictive and forecasting tools,  crop response modeling, soil health,  water
security and water allocation,  digital twins for plants, farms, and regions,
earth -systems and biophysical modeling of complex systems, accelerated
breeding of resilient and resistant varieties, community and economic
modeling for adoption, interactive dashboards for decision making, and
responsible and safe AI.
oAI for health  involves drug design,  early disease detection and prevention
science through high -throughput screening and imaging , precision medicine,
variant detection at molecular , cellular, tissue -specific, and organismal
scales, understanding the roles of genetic and environmental variability  on
diseases and disease evolution, cancer heterogeneity and cancer genomics,
antimicrobial resistance and hospital acquired infections, pandemic
prevention and epidemic control.
oAI for en ergy and en vironment  involves smart power grid design and grid
resilience, fault tolerance, distribution networks and load distribution,
contingency planning and optimization, renewables, grid security,
environmental stewardship, air quality,  water resource and critical
infrastructure management,  emergency planning  – e.g., wild fires, flood ,
human influence and behavior modeling.


5 
Office of External Affairs and Government Relations  
2)Investment in Foundational  AI research and development
Foundational AI provides the building blocks of AI that can then be adapted and
integrated to create use -inspired solutions. Foundational AI various core areas of AI
including (but not limited to) machine learning, human -centric AI design, planning
and con trol, vision and perception, robustness, explainability, interpretability and
reasoning, and causal inference. Future research in foundational AI is needed in the
following areas over the next 5 years:
oFoundation models , including large language models and world models,
their design and limit studies,  fidelity to real -world
oExplainability and interpretability , including reasoning tools, mechanistic
interpretability, explainable AI, science -guided machine learning, low -
complex analytical models to approximate large -parameter deep models
oScalable infrastructure for AI , including energy -efficient data centers,
microprocessor and chip design, high performance computing for training,
chiplets and system -on-chip integration, energy harvesting devices and
wearables, memory technology and processing -in-memory architectures,
application specific integrated circuit design , parallel computing , low -cost
training, reduction of model size without losing model power
oHuman -AI workflows , including interactive workflows, human -robot
collaboration, AI -assisted human workflow, human -guided AI workflow, AI -
guided training and education, virtual and augmented reality environments
for training and simulation, inclusive and accessible technolog y
oAgentic AI  involving design of light -weight and reusable AI agents to tackle
specific tasks including planning and scheduling, programming, data
processing, and recommendation  engines
oSecure AI including privacy preserving AI, federated learning and data
privacy, computer and network security, cloud security, distributed systems
security and resilience, frameworks for vulnerability assessment,
cryptography, software and mobile security, web secu rity.
oAI test beds , including experimental infrastructure for rapid prototyping and
field testing in both controlled environments and close -to-real conditions,
low -cost simulation environments and digital twins to pose what -if scenario


6 
Office of External Affairs and Government Relations  
questions, and synthetic data fabrics to augment physical observations. 
3)Workforce development and preparation
Adoption of AI relies on an AI -ready workforce across all sectors of science and
technology. This takes training and raising AI awareness across the entire society,
across all levels from K -12 through current workforce in industry. This holistic and
compre hensive plan for workforce development and preparation will involve design
of curricular materials and learning modalities that fit all levels, communication
materials that are intended for public consumption and raising awareness, and
collaborative and interdisciplinary tools intended for fostering research, innov ation,
and testing. While this requires innovation at all levels of education, new
investment will be needed in the following dimensions to accelerate training and AI
readiness of the U.S. workforce:
oResponsible scaling plan : Every area that is impacted by AI has some
degree of automation with a potential to either augment the human
performing a task or to potentially replace the human to perform the task.
Therefore, new policy frameworks and long -term strategic planning are
needed to chart a responsible scaling plan that would not only improve
productivity and profitability but also empower the human productivity
through creative partnerships at the human -AI interface, without
jeopardizing the careers of the human workers who could be displaced due
to AI. This will entail engaging across the entire spectrum of the workforce
from the employers (owners, board of trustees) to the employees (managers,
workers). Specifically, direct and trusted engagement with the workers on
the field can not only ensure adequate preparation but  also provide an
opportunity to leverage their vast experiential knowledge to creating creative
solutions for longer -term human -AI collaboration without fear of
displacement. It could also help identify new opportunities where
innovations are most needed w ith a high chance of community adoption.
oCommunity -embedded training:  Traditional mechanisms of learning and
training focus on structured institutions such as K-12 schools, 4 -year
colleges, and universities. However, accessibility to such formal institutions
are often limited in rural communities across U.S. Studies have shown that


7 
Office of External Affairs and Government Relations  
the best way to impart training at these rural communities is through an 
embedded model, where the training happens directly within the local 
communities. This could happen through associate degrees or through 
certifications and bootcamps, or simply throug h informal workshops and 
learning circles that aim to transfer expert knowledge to new learners. 
Providing a structure to this otherwise unstructured and unmeasurable 
training pathways is important. In addition, creating new learning pathways 
to on -board u ntrained workers into specialized positions will be needed. 
oEmphasis on K -12 education:  When it comes to AI, early exposure to the
capabilities of AI and more broadly, computing and the power of data, are
critical. This is most effectively carried out at the K -12 level, as students who
are at the middle - and high -school levels make their car eer decisions.
Students at this age are both curious and technologically adept, making
them ideal targets for training on AI -driven technologies. However, safe and
effective training kits are needed to help introduce AI and related technology
(e.g. drones, robots, circuits) to this level, and to aid them in their exploration
of science and technology.  Programs that support cross -generational
mentoring and peer -mentoring should be encouraged. In addition, efforts
that train the teachers (e.g., train the trainer) need emphasis. Land -grant
universities are best positioned to push the barriers in community  education
across all levels due to the programs that they already support in community
outreach and extension.
4)Fostering a cademi c-industry -public sector  partnerships
The roles of the academic, private, and public sectors are complementing and
synergistic. The academic sector innovates in AI research, leads discovery in
science and engineering applications, and supplies an AI -ready workforce. The
industry sector adopts,  democratizes, and scales AI to fuel a job -creating economy,
built around developing AI for enterprise -scale applications. The public sector
envisions and solicits new development and innovation in social good applications
and deploys them at scale within all layers of society, to create access and
opportunity across the socioeconomic spectrum. This synergistic interplay between
academia, public, and private sectors is symbiotic, as more jobs need more talent,
research and innovation, and increased adoption  and demand for scale.


8 
Office of External Affairs and Government Relations  
5)Establishing research institutes and regional hubs
Establishing a network of research centers/institutes of excellence and regional
hubs, housed and/or led by universities and in partnership with industry and public
sectors, provide a systematic way to increase national prominence, and to catalyze
innovati on and accelerate workforce development. Much like the Manhattan
project led to the establishment of national labs focused on energy, U.S. needs the
next wave of centers of excellence across all U.S. regions. The National AI Research
Institutes program, cr eated in 2019, led to the establishment of 27 AI Institutes
across the nation. They were each funded for a 5 -year term. Leveraging the strong
foundation and network laid by these institutes and capitalizing on their collective
experience, time is now ripe for a long -term investment that would make these AI
Institutes permanent and transform them into regional hubs of innovation in various
areas of both foundational - and use -inspired AI. These institutes should emphasize
research innovation coupled with tran slational research to practice and economic
growth.  Public -funded land -grant universities are ideally positioned to lead these
institutes due to their deep -rooted connections to the region  and communities they
serve , investments from the state, and from the industry in the local region.
Fortifying a set of permanent AI Institutes as regional hubs will serve as a long -
lasting legacy.
6)Establishing global centers for international collaboration and knowledge
sharing
Prominence in the global stage is critical to assert dominance in AI technology and
its use. As the leading developer and exporter of AI technology and with a diversified
economy across all sectors in the industry, U.S. is uniquely -placed to lead the AI
revolution on the world stage. Key strategic partnerships with allies who also
provide complementing technology and/or applications for U.S. technology, need to
be identified, prioritized, and implemented. One effective way to implement such
long -term strate gic partnerships is through the establishment of a network of global
centers that are supported by multiple countries across continental borders. These
centers can pivot on partnerships that are bilateral, or on partnerships that involve
multiple countries . Establishing such global centers can facilitate faculty and
student exchange, knowledge and data sharing, and establish a reciprocal


9 
Office of External Affairs and Government Relations  
relationship and strong ties with the partnered countries, helping all countries 
including the U.S.  collaboratively and cooperatively build and test AI technology in a 
trusted environment. 


