1 March 1 5, 2025  
Submitted via  email  
Attn: Faisal D'Souza, NCO,  
2415 Eisenhower Avenue,  
Alexandria, V A 22314, USA 
Telephone: 
RE: Response to Request for Information on the Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
Action Plan  
I.Introduction
The Working for Advanced Transmission Technologies (WATT) and Advancing Modern 
Powerlines (AMP) Coalitions respectfully submit these comments in response to the request for 
information (RFI) issued February 3, 2025, on the development of an Artificial Inte lligence (AI) 
Action Plan. The Coalitions are focused on facilitating the adoption of advanced technologies on 
the US electric transmission system that improve reliability, lower cost, and accelerate 
integration of new  load and  generation resources.  
II.About the WATT Coalition
The WATT Coalition advocates for policy that supports the wide deployment of Grid Enhancing 
Technologies (GETs) to accelerate the lower energy costs and enable economic growth. GETs are 
hardware and/or software that increases the capacity, efficiency, and maintains the reliability of 
the electric grid. Learn more at watt -transmission.org. WATT’s membership includes Dynamic 
Line Ratings, Advanced Power Flow Control and Transmission Topology Optimization vendors, 
as well as independent power producers, clean energy investors and utilities.  
III.About the AMP Coalition
The AMP Coalition is an ad hoc coalition of CTC Global Corporation, TS Conductor, VEIR, and 
MetOx. AMP’s goal is to further the use of High Performance Conductors as a tool for 
modernizing and increasing grid capacity, as well as improving the overall resi lience, reliability, 
and energy efficiency of the grid.  
IV.The Current Generation Interconnection and Transmission Planning Processes
Are Creating Unacceptable Delays for Data Center Development
Shortcomings in transmission planning and generation interconnection processes have emerged 
as the critical bottleneck in the AI revolution. The unprecedented energy demand necessary to 
train and run more powerful models is stretching the grid to its limits. Late last year, the 
Department of Energy released a study finding that data centers would use a s much as 12 % of 


 2 total US electricity demand by 2028 , up from 4.4% in 2023 .1 On top of this new demand, US 
grid infrastructure is rapidly aging.  
In PJM, the 13 -state transmission region which includes major data center clusters in Ohio and 
Virginia, two -thirds of all electrical assets are at least forty years old , and one -third are at least 50 
years old.2 PJM is projected to host as much as 70 % of US data center growth.3 This demand – 
particularly in northern Virginia’s ‘data center alley’, home to as much as 70% of all internet 
traffic – is driving the need for new greenfield transmission.4 But transmission projects are 
notoriously difficult to site: they are time and capital intensive, cross multiple municipalities, and 
often involve use of eminent domain. For example, the Piedmont Reliability Project, a planned 
transmission line running from southeast Pennsylvania into Maryland, has sparked backlash from 
landowners and politicians of both parties.5 New greenfield transmission projects can be 
contentious – a fundamental reality that can be managed, but not eliminated, by permitting 
reform. Consequently, utilities are quoting wait times as long as seven years for new large loads 
to interconnect.6￼The US  AI Action Plan  should prioritize  support  for near-term and long -term 
transmission solutions in tandem to ensure grid  operators  can bring new load online quickly and 
unlock the transformative power of AI.  
Behind -the-meter (BTM) generation options  are not a panacea for data center operators, who 
have turned to a wide array of agreements with generation developers  to accelerate the powering 
of these facilities. But, at least for the foreseeable future, nearly all such arrangements will still 
rely on grid interconnection. Going fully off -grid poses unique risks which many large 
interconnection customers will not acc ept. AI data centers need to operate at extremely high 
levels of reliability – often at least 99. 999 percent (‘five nines’) uptime.7 That standard allows for 
less than seven minutes of outage in a year. Any off -grid generation solution would require 
maintenance outages exceeding that limit and offer less redundancy compared to the grid. Fully 
BTM solutions would also introduce project risks and regulatory uncertainty.8 For the vast 
majority of operators, grid interconnection with generator backup is preferable to fully off -grid 
data centers.   
 
1 Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, “ 2024 United States Data Center Energy Usage Report ,” December 
2024, https://eta -publications.lbl.gov/sites/default/files/2024 -12/lbnl -2024 -united -states -data-center -energy -usage -
report.pdf  at 5. 
2  PJM, “ The Benefits of the PJM Transmission System ,” at 5, April 16, 2019.  
3 Boston Consulting Group, “ Breaking Barriers to Data Center Growth ,” January 20, 2025, 
https://www.bcg.com/publications/2025/breaking -barriers -data-center -growth.  
4 Prince William Times, “ Opposition mounts to ‘spiderweb’ of new transmission lines needed to power data center 
alley,” October 25, 2023, https://www.princewilliamtimes.com/news/opposition -mounts -to-spiderweb -of-new-
transmission -lines -needed -to-power -data-center -alley/article_b7da863c -dfac-516d -9dfe-9adc34b8c8bd.html.  
5 WBAL, “ PSEG files application with PSC seeking authority to build Maryland Piedmont Reliability Project ,” 
December 31, 2024, https://www.wbaltv.com/article/piedmont -powerline -project -pseg-files-application -
psc/63313157.  
6 Bloomberg, “ Data Centers Face Seven -Year Wait for Dominion Power Hookups ,” August 29, 2024, 
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024 -08-29/data -centers -face-seven -year-wait-for-power -hookups -in-
virginia?embedded -checkout=true  
7 SemiAnalysis, “ Datacenter Anatomy Part 1: Electrical Systems ,” October 24, 2024, 
https://semianalysis.com/2024/10/14/datacenter -anatomy -part-1-electrical/.  
8 Id. 3,  


3 “Speed -to-power" has emerged as the key priority for data center developers – outpacing 
considerations like access to land, water, chips, or fiber , and  the price of electricity.9 But the US  
electricity system is struggling to match the pace of AI expansion . Planning, siting and 
permitting new transmission lines requires, on average, seven to ten years.10 In some extreme 
examples, projects have taken up to  seventeen years  to complete due to permitting delays and 
other challenges .11 There is an inherent mismatch between the timelines required by AI use and 
the pace of growth of our electricity system. Making it easier to permit  and build large 
transmission and generation projects is a crucial part of the solution – permitting reform  is 
needed . But the administration should also aim to maximize the generation  already  connected  to 
the grid by taking advantage of advanced transmission technologies (ATTs).  
V.Advanced Transmission Technologies (ATTs) Can Offer Some Immediate Relief
to Data Center and Power Generation Developers
ATTs  can maximize the useful capacity of existing grid s and infrastructure . These technologies 
are lower -cost and faster to deploy than either new transmission lines or new generation 
resources.12 ATTs includ e Grid Enhancing Technologies (GETs) and High Performance 
Conductors (HPCs).  
a.About Grid Enhancing Technologies
Grid Enhancing Technologies, or GETs, are hardware and software that increase the capacity, 
efficiency and reliability of the transmission system. These technologies are installed on existing 
transmission infrastructure to give operators more situational a wareness and control over the 
grid.  
•Power flow control technologies  actively balance the flow on transmission lines. The
hardware can intelligently raise or lower the impedance, or the opposition to current, in
real time to ensure that power is delivered on lines that have the capacity to carry it.
Advanced power flow control (APFC)  expands on this function with enhancements
such as faster and more flexible deployment options, easy scaling to meet the size of the
need, and ability to relocate when needed elsewhere on the grid.
•Dynamic Line Rating (DLR)  monitors ambient conditions which heat or cool
transmission lines to calculate the true capacity of transmission lines, based on their
9 McGeady, Cy et al., “ The Electricity Supply Bottleneck on US AI Dominance ,” March 2025, https://csis -website -
prod.s3.amazonaws.com/s3fs -public/2025 -
03/250303_McGeady_Electricity_Bottleneck.pdf?VersionId=LsCkrctQBekLSYFPxus3XWdmTCnmIr9Z  
10 Lisa Kelso, Testimony before the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio, “ Direct Testimony of Lisa Kelso on Behalf 
of Ohio Power Company ,” Case No. 24 -508-EL-ATA, filed May 13, 2024, 
https://dis.puc.state.oh.us/ViewImage.aspx?CMID=A1001001A24E13B43501B00952.  
11 Wall Street Journal, “ The U.S. ‘Fast -Tracked’ a Power Project. After 17 Years, It Just Got Approved .” May 18, 
2023, https://www.wsj.com/articles/the -u-s-fast-tracked -a-power -project -after-17-years -its-nearing -approval -
1a7edb86  
12 The Working for Advanced Transmission Technologies (WATT) Coalition and The Advancing Modern Powerlines 
(AMP) Coalition, Benefits of ATTs Compared to Traditional Upgrades , August 2024, WATT -and-AMP -Benefits -of-
ATTs -compared -to-traditional -upgrades.pdf, at 1  


 4 thermal limits. In windy regions where transmission capacity is critical for wind power 
development, DLR often allows significantly more power flow than a static rating over 
the course of the year but also detects when flows should be reduced to continue s afe and 
reliable operation in extreme heat or other conditions.  
 
 
• Transmission topology optimization (TTO)  software models the grid's network and 
power flow conditions to identify ways to reroute power flow around congested or 
overloaded transmission elements. These "reconfigurations" are implemented by 
switching on or off existing high -voltage circuit breaker s. By more evenly distributing 
flow over the network, topology control increases the transfer capacity of the grid, like 
Google maps redirecting cars in traffic.  
 
b. About High Performance Conductors  
High Performance Conductors (HPCs) is a term that encompasses modern conductor 
technologies which have greater performance characteristics when compared to traditional 
conductors, including increased capacity, higher efficiency, and less thermal sag.  
• Carbon and Composite Core Conductors , also known as Advanced Conductors, are 
overhead, bare conductors that use a trapezoid shaped wire of annealed aluminum to 
carry electrical current and use a carbon or composite core for support. Used 
commercially for 20 years, the conductors are deployed  in over 60 countries across 5 
continents. Carbon and composite core conductors have three key advantages over 
traditional conductors: stronger and lighter weight cores, which allows for more 
aluminum to be added to the conductor, doubling the capacity; 20% or greater efficiency, 
and half as much thermal sag.  
 
• Superconducting transmission lines  use a class of metallic compounds that exhibit 
negligible resistance when cooled using liquid nitrogen, enabling very low losses and 
very high power -flow capacities. Developed in the 1980s, countries in Europe and Asia, 
as well as the U.S., have installed  superconductors over the past 20 years. 
Superconductors have three key advantages over traditional conductors: increase capacity 
5-10 times at lower voltages, reducing substation build and cost, no thermal sag and line 
sag does not vary with ambient weather conditions or exposure to elements, and they are 
at least 50% more energy efficient.  
These technologies are low-hanging fruit: they are  cost-effective and can help bring new load 
and new generation online quickly by better utilizing the grid or increasing the power density of 
existing corridors.  Not only will they help meet the electricity demand from new data centers , 
but they will also  be a crucial tool as data center developers  move to larger compute clusters.  
GETs and HPCs have well -established benefits but are not yet widely deployed in the US. 
Reconductoring with carbon or composite core conductors  can increase the capacity of an 


5 existing line by 50 -110% at a cost less than half that of greenfield transmission  and rebuilding 
with modern superconductors could increase the capacity of lines by over 500% .13  Deploying  
GETs including  dynamic line rating  (DLR)  created an average increase of 47% in line capacity in 
Massachusetts, and up to 60% increase in line capacity for the New York Power Authority.14 
DLR is currently the subject of a n advanced  notice of proposed rulemaking at FERC.15 
These technologies are widely deployed in Europe and Asia, but uptake has been slower in the 
US. Barriers to deployment include a lack of familiarity from grid planners, regulators , and 
utilities.  
HPCs can offer an excellent solution for utilities dealing with significant  load growth. In 2015, 
rapid population growth drove record power demand in the Rio Grande Valley. The area’s sole 
source of power was a pair of legacy transmission lines – each over thirty years old. AEP was 
able to replace 240 line -miles with advanced conductors , nearly doubling the previous power 
capacity. The project was completed millions of dollars under budget, eight months ahead of 
schedule, and without any interruptions for consumers.16  
As interconnection requests have increased over the past decade, generation developers have 
experienced longer waits, higher interconnection costs, and more frequent cancellations 
stemming in part from limited transmission headroom.17 According to the Lawrence Berkeley 
National Lab, over two terawatts of generating resources are currently languishing in 
interconnection queues .18 A Brattle Group  study of states in the Southwest Power Pool found that 
uptake of GETs coul d allow double the generating resources to come online relative to a base 
case.19 GETs would also enable operators to reduce curtailment of new and existing generation . 
Similarly, using HPCs to replace just 25% of the oldest infrastructure on the US  transmission 
system would allow the interconnection of an additional 27  GW of generation annually over the 
next decade.20  
13 GridLab, “ The 2035 Report: Reconductoring with advanced conductors can accelerate the rapid transmission 
expansion required for a clean grid ,” April 2024, www.2035report.com/wp -
content/uploads/2024/04/GridLab_2035 -Reconductoring -Technical -Report.pdf at 17.  
14 The Working for Advanced Transmission Technologies (WATT) Coalition and The Advancing Modern Powerlines 
(AMP) Coalition, Benefits of ATTs Compared to Traditional Upgrades, August 2024, WATT -and-AMP -Benefits -of-
ATTs -compared -to-traditional -upgrades.pdf , at 2  
15 Fact Sheet | ANOPR: Implementation of Dynamic Line Ratings, June 27, 2024, https://www.ferc.gov/news -
events/news/ferc -seeks -comment -potential -dlr-framework -improve -grid-operations -fact-sheet#FS.  
16 Power Engineers, “ Lower Rio Grande Valley 345 kV Reconductor Project ,” (n.d.).  
17 Gorman, W. et al. (2025) ‘Grid connection barriers to renewable energy deployment in the United States’, Joule, 
9(2). doi:10.1016/j.joule.2024.11.008.  
18 Rand, Joseph et al., “ Queued Up: 2024 Edition Characteristics of Power Plants Seeking Transmission 
Interconnection As of the End of 2023 ,” April 2024, https://emp.lbl.gov/sites/default/files/2024 -
04/Queued%20Up%202024%20Edition_R2.pdf.  
19 Tschuida, T. Bruce et al.,  “Unlocking the Queue with Grid -Enhancing Technologies ,” February 1, 2021,  
https://watt -transmission.org/wp -content/uploads/2021/02/Brattle__Unlocking -the-Queue -with-Grid-Enhancing -
Technologies__Final -Report_Public -Version.pdf90.pdf.  
20 Jay Caspary and Jesse Schneider, Grid Strategies, Advanced Conductors on Existing Transmission Corridors to 
Accelerate Low Cost Decarbonization, ACORE, March 2022, https://acore.org/wp -
content/uploads/2022/03/Advanced_Conductors_to_Accelerate_Grid_Decarbon ization.pdf at 19-20. 


 6 States as politically  and geographically  diverse as Montana, Minnesota,  Virginia,  and California  
have approved measures to expand the use of GETs and HPCs  due to their cost saving benefits .21 
FERC has also stressed the need for grid operators and utilities to consider GETs  and HPCs . In 
Order No. 2023, the agency’s landmark interconnection reform, transmission providers are 
required to evaluate HPCs  and a select number of GETs technologies in assessing grid upgrades 
needed for generator interconnection.22 In Order No. 1920 -A, the transmission planning rule 
passed last May  and unanimously reaffirmed in November, transmission providers were required 
to assess a range of GETs and HPCs in their planning processes.23  
The speed of the AI transition demands that, in addition to installing vast new sources of 
generation, the US  maximize s the potential of the existing grid  and prudently expand its capacity 
in new areas as needed . Interconnection queues, siting and permitting challenges, and supply 
chain constraints around critical technologies, including large power transformers, have 
expanded the lead times to build all forms of new generation and grid components.24 25 HPCs  
and GETs offer near -term transmission capacity expansion solutions  for the existing grid and 
new projects , with installation times of  can 1 -3 years and six months , respectively .26 
In recognition of the important role ATTs can play in supporting the development of grid 
infrastructure and capacity needed to support AI development, the AI Action Plan should include 
the following recommendations:  
• DOE should continue  and expand  its support of HPC and GETs projects. As of April 
2024, DOE’s Grid Resilience and Innovation Partnerships program supported over $2 
billion worth of GETs and HPC projects.27 Similarly, the Loan Programs Office has 
supported $23 billion in transmission projects, including reconductoring, under the Title 
17 Energy Infrastructure Reinvestment program.28 Funds in other existing programs, 
including the Innovative Energy Loan Program and the Tribal Energy Finance Program 
could be dedicated to GETs or HPCs.29 Federal support for these technologies, whether 
 
21 Pew Charitable Trusts, “ With U.S. Energy Grid Under Strain, Governments Promote Technology Solutions ,” 
August 2, 2024, https://www.pewtrusts.org/en/research -and-analysis/articles/2024/08/02/with -us-energy -grid-under -
strain -governments -promote -technology -solutions.  
22 Order No. 2023, Docket No. RM22 -14, at 1011 . 
23 Order No. 1920 -A, Docket No. 21 -17, at 506.  
24 Resources for the Future, “ Modeling Obstacles to Energy Infrastructure for Improved Policy Analysis ,” September 
2024, https://media.rff.org/documents/Report_24 -16_-_Updated_Draft.pdf.  
25 Department of Energy “ Pathways to Commercial Liftoff: Innovative Grid Deployment ,” April 2024, 
https://liftoff.energy.gov/wp -content/uploads/2024/04/Liftoff_Innovative -Grid-Deployment_Final_4.15.pdf.  
26 Department of Energy “ Pathways to Commercial Liftoff: Innovative Grid Deployment ,” April 2024, 
https://liftoff.energy.gov/wp -content/uploads/2024/04/Liftoff_Innovative -Grid-Deployment_Final_4.15.pdf.  
27 Department of Energy “ Pathways to Commercial Liftoff: Innovative Grid Deployment ,” April 2024, 
https://liftoff.energy.gov/wp -content/uploads/2024/04/Liftoff_Innovative -Grid-Deployment_Final_4.15.pdf.  
28 Department of Energy, “ Deal Digest: LPO’ s Latest Conditional Commitments Help Keep Power Affordable 
Through New Generation and Expanded Transmission for Utility Customers in Twelve States ,” January 16, 2025, 
https://www.energy.gov/lpo/articles/deal -digest -lpos-latest -conditional -commitments -help-keep -power -affordable -
through -new. 
29 Watt Coalition, “ Federal Funding for Advanced Transmission Technologies ,” accessed February 28, 2025, 
https://watt -transmission.org/wp -content/uploads/2024/08/WATT -and-AMP -Federal -Funding -for-Advanced -
Transmission -Technologies.pdf.  


7 through grants or loans, will help accelerate their urgently needed deployment, and 
improve utility comfort with the technology along with providing lessons learned for 
future deployments.  
•DOE should consider implementing a conductor efficiency and/or a resistance -based
standard. Congress has already vested DOE with the authority to establish energy -
efficiency standards for certain electrical equipment. Standards have been developed for
over 70 product categories, including boilers, central air conditioners, and distribution
transformers.30 Establishing efficiency or resistance -based standards for transmission
would provide an important signal for utilities and manufacturers.
•The administration should leverage  the authority of the national laboratories.
Skepticism from industry planners and utility regulators is a key barrier to deployment of
GETs and HPCs. The federal government should leverage institutions, such as the
national labs, to lead on bringing these important tools into the mainstream. For example,
they should be considered in assessments of technology readiness such as the NREL’s
Annual Technology Baseline.31
•The administration should support the future transmission workforce.  The
administration should examine whether our workforce is equipped for the widespread
manufacture and deployment of these advanced technologies. Congress and the
Departments of Education and Labor should invest in workforce training programs for
power sy stem engineers, electricians, and linemen.
•The administration should require other federal agencies to adopt DOE’s
categorical exclusion for reconductoring and rebuilds. DOE established a NEPA
Categorical Exclusion to streamline the permitting process for projects reconductoring or
rebuilding transmission lines, increasing capacity much more quickly by utilizing
existing rights -of-way and potentially existing infrastructur e, such as transmission
towers. DOE has limited control over federal lands and other agencies such as the
Department of Interior should adopt similar categorical exclusions.
•FERC should adopt a shared savings incentive. As previously discussed, utilit ies’
well-known capex bias can discourage investment in  certain  ATTs. A shared savings
incentive rewards utilities for saving ratepayers money. Utilities would receive a portion
of the savings derived from use of ATTs as determined through a standard cost -benefit
analysis.  This incentive could save consumers billions of dollars per year.32
30 Department of Energy, “Standards and Test Procedures,” https://www.energy.gov/eere/buildings/standards -and-
test-procedures.  
31 GridLab, “ Supporting Advanced Conductor Deployment: Barriers and Policy Solutions ,” April 9, 2024, 
https://www.2035report.com/wp -content/uploads/2024/05/5.3 -Reconductoring -policy -report.pdf.  
32 Gramlich, Rob et al., “ A Roadmap for Advanced Transmission Technology Adoption ,” September 2024, 
https://ceepr.mit.edu/wp -content/uploads/2024/09/MIT -CEEPR -RC-2024 -06.pdf.  


 8  
Respectfully , 
Julia Selker  
Executive Director  
WATT Coalition  
 
 
Zach Zimmerman  
AMP Coalition  
 
 
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business -
proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in 
developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution.  
 


