From: Wednezday Ryan
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] “AI Action Plan”
Date: Saturday, March 15, 2025 11:19:15 PM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Faisal D’Souza and Whom Else  It May Concern:  
Thank you for this opportunity to speak my mind about what to do to protect individual human
persons, especially artists like myself, from Artificial Intelligence. My desire is for there to beparameters put in place both ethically and contractually to limit potential dangers that AI couldcreate if it were to be used to slowly encroach upon our personal liberties and freedoms similar towhat we all just experienced over the last four decades. With the threat of a surveillance statelooming over us we need to look deeper at the negative impacts and/or unintended consequencesthat would take hold if not kept under careful check.
 
I know that recently the  CEO of Clearview AI, the startup that scraped billions of online face
images, resigns  and we also lost the life of Suchir Balaji  'They attacked Suchir Balaji and killed
him’: Mother of OpenAI whistleblower speaks out on Tucker Carlson - The Times of India  when he
spoke out about the theft of copy written and otherwise protected data. We should be especiallycareful with what AI feeds on and need to keep in mind the old saying “Garbage in, garbage out.”
 
Artificial Intelligence has caused great concern as it appears the already well-establishedcopyright and anti-piracy laws have been completely disregarded with regards to the THEFT ofthe data to make these AI systems run. There should be a mass class action against anycompany who has taken/stolen without consent of the individual for any use of voice, image,name and likeness, or any such personal/private digital information used by ANY type of Artificial
Intelligence.
 Remember Deep Seek stole the same information from Chat GPT. Why DeepSeek's
new AI model thinks it's ChatGPT | TechCrunch  Privacy, anonymity and the ability to make choices
for oneself regarding one's personhood are  of the utmost importance for the citizens of not only
the United States of America, but in the world.  
While I understand you wish to use AI to run biometric surveillance on the border to catch
criminals, this absolutely cannot extend into the interior breaching the rights of the actual citizensof the United States.
 And while we are at it toll roads and surveillance on major roadways and
highways are an illegal search and seizure as surveillance cameras and automatic  license plate
readers in public spaces are a violation of the fourth amendment, private property excluded as it isthe purview of the owner. Police radar is also excluded as it does not surveil but measures speed.It is not equal protection under the law if the people who cannot afford to use the “FasTrak” laneare precluded from using a lane separated out just for the wealthy, as roads and bridges arepublic spaces and should be enjoyed equally by everyone. 
  
We need to ensure that the use of AI does not lead us into the totalitarian "social credit score"system currently implemented by China. This type of system must NEVER be implemented togrant or limit access based on controlled behavior, here in the FREE country of the USA. It is badenough that there were instances during the lockdowns of 2020 where groups or states attemptedto implement and enforce what I call a Nazi style "show us your papers" "covid passport" this wasa huge violation of our civil liberties and personal protections unlike anything we have ever


seen. This cannot and must not ever happen again. To use Artificial Intelligence to data mine for
an integrated “health pass” or require anyone to submit to such a global surveillance system is
again another violation of our fourth amendment rights.  
We have already seen hundreds of thousands of feet of orange covered wire installed everywherein California and elsewhere preparing for the 5G connection; it started on the first day of theinfamous "15 days to slow the spread." This global plan of “15-minute cities”, “Smart Cities” or“Intelligent Ecosystems” cannot be allowed to be forced upon Americans especially now with theimplementation of generative AI.
    
On October 24, 2014, at the AeroAstro Centennial Symposium at the Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology in a one-on-one discussion with Elon Musk, even he warned that we were“summoning the demon” or messing with something we naively think we can control but inactuality we cannot. Suggesting we be “very careful with artificial intelligence” and thinks “thereshould be some regulatory oversight at a National and International level, to make sure we do not
do something very foolish.” 
Elon Musk at the MIT AeroAstro Centennial Symposium  (@ 1 hour 7
minutes and 36 seconds in) I concur.   
In closing, please find a Resolution that would make certain that our digital information remains
our individual private property.  
 
A Resolution to reaffirm and defend a citizen’s right to privacy with regards to Artificial Intelligence.  
 
Summary  
 
This resolution aims to reaffirm the fact that Congress has a duty to protect the privacy rights of its citizens and
must defend against widespread data collection by any and all entities, including but not limited to unions,technology companies, governments, employers, and third-party affiliates, especially with the use of ArtificialIntelligence.
 
 
Whereas  the United Nations admits, “In December 2021, at its second-ever special session, the World Health
Assembly established an intergovernmental negotiating body (INB) to draft and negotiate a convention, agreementor other international instrument under the Constitution of the World Health Organization to strengthen pandemicprevention, preparedness and response.” In actuality this new global accord would give over individual bodilyautonomy and sovereignty to an entity outside of the United States of America to dictate the when, why and how a“future pandemic emergency” will be handled.
 
 
Whereas  Article 2 Section 2 Clause 2 of the United States Constitution specifies how treaties can take place, which is
corroborated by Article 6 clause 2. Any attempt by the W.H.O. to control healthcare through global healthgovernance or policy is unenforceable under Federal and State law and any attempt to use Artificial Intelligence tocollect or maintain data for such purposes is in violation of such clauses. 
 
 
Whereas Article 14 section 1 clause 2 “ No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or
immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property,
without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.” The use
of Artificial Intelligence to scrape and steal personal or public data from the internet is a direct and concrete
violation of this Article as the digital information is innately considered the personal property of the subject in
question.  
 
Whereas  the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA)  was signed into law on May 21, 2008.   GINA
protects individuals who are legal citizens of the United States of America against discrimination  based on their


genetic information in health coverage and employment. Any data collected again is the personal property of the
person whose data is being collected.  The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 | U.S. Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission (eeoc.gov)    
Whereas  schemes to introduce passports have been touted around the world  routinely using nonconsensual or
coerced data tracking and data sharing, such as “Digital COVID-19 Vaccine Records”, therefore  “CLEAR PASS”,
“SMART Health Cards with a QR code”, “SarsCoV2 or Covid passports”, “Clear Secure”, “TSA Pre-check”, “verifiable
vaccination credentials”, “electronic vaccine verification system”, “digital passport”, “Digital I.D.” and “Digital HealthTechnologies for Remote Data Acquisition” it is unethical to force or coerce vaccination and vaccination records, onpaper, digital or otherwise, as a requirement to enter a building, go on to a set, or otherwise earn a living. Unethicaltreatment of civil rights and constitutional rights, are redressable by multiple laws, including especially the right toprivacy in the Fourth and
 Fifth Amendments to the  Constitution.   
Whereas  on April 6, 2021, the White House confirmed that it would not support a “system that requires Americans
to carry a credential to show proof of vaccination,” and also stated “there will be no federal vaccinations databaseand no federal mandate requiring everyone to obtain a single vaccination credential,” citing concerns about privacy,security, and discrimination where these systems could be used against people unfairly. By law, government entitieshave no grant of authority to mandate, agree to, negotiate or approve the mandating of ‘vaccine passports’ orsimilar, nor to create or allow a condition of employment to be tested, vaccinated, or tracked by use of ArtificialIntelligence by vaccination status.
 
Whereas  Congress has a fiduciary duty to assert and defend a citizen’s rights to privacy, which are fundamental
rights guaranteed by the United States Constitution, together with Federal and State law. Thus, Congress cannotenter into any agreement or conspire or collude with entities attempting to steal personal information especiallywith the use of Artificial Intelligence, including voice, image, name, likeness and/or use force or coercion to infringeupon rights of privacy.
 
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED  that Congress issue a statement of support affirming the inalienable rights to
privacy of its citizenry and back that up by creating binding legislation making it illegal to steal copy written, piracyprotected as well as any other personal/private data which may be threatened by the use of Artificial Intelligence orotherwise and to guarantee personal bodily autonomy including name, image, likeness and voice, 
 condemning any
prerequisite to employment, or potential employment that infringes on those rights by coercion or force.  
Statement in Support of Resolution  
“The United States government has a duty to protect the privacy rights of all citizens and  must therefore defend
against the nonconsensual or coerced implementation and use of collection of medical records, medical testing,geolocation tracking, personal data collection and sharing, facial recognition collection, and the like done byArtificial Intelligence or otherwise.”
  
Submitted with permission from: Erik Nicolaisen, Cupid Hayes and Wednezday Ryan.  
Thank you for your time and consideration,  
Wednezday Ryan  
California  


All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


