1 RFI for  
Information on the Development of an 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (3-1-2025) 
Wendell Chun & Zachary Sartor 
Parker, Colorado 
This Action Plan will define the priority policy actions 
needed to sustain and enhance America's AI 
dominance, and to ensure that unnecessarily 
burdensome requirements do not hamper private 
sector AI innovation.  Artificial Intelligence (AI) has two 
distinct disciplines: science and engineering, and each 
discipline has a different purpose.  The science of AI, or more specifically human 
intelligence, is focused on understanding the problem of how the brain and its intelligence  
works.  In contrast, AI engineering also has a very specific purpose: to design a working 
AI system or “machine”.  Engineering develops the solution.  Both of these disciplines are 
important, but for different reasons.  Research learned in AI science will have direct benefits to AI engineering, whose goal is to field a working prototype.  This effort validates 
the maturity level of the technology and as a perspective, the ultimate robotic system is a 
humanoid. 
Science is a systematic discipline that builds and organizes knowledge in the form of 
testable hypotheses and predictions about the universe.  AI Science builds testable 
hypotheses and predictions about the human mind.  Modern science is typically divided 
into two or three major branches that impact AI: the natural sciences (e.g., physics and 
biology), which study the physical world; and the social sciences (e.g., economics, 
psychology, and sociology), which study individuals and societies. The formal sciences 
(e.g., logic, mathematics, and computer sciences, which study formal systems governed 
by axioms and rules) are sometimes described as being science as well; however, they 
are often regarded as a separate field because they rely on deductive reasoning instead 
of following the scientific method or empirical evidence 
as their main methodology.  Thus, AI Science involves the 
natural sciences, social sciences, and to a major extent, 
the formal sciences.   Biology includes neuroscience, the 
primary model for the neural network.  Designing smart 
machines depend on physics, requiring economics that 
can support decision making (especially Von Neumann 
and Morgenstern’s Expected Utility Function), requiring 
psychology through AI behaviors, and requiring sociology 
with human-machine interfaces and swarms.  AI 
constitute all the formal sciences of logic, mathematics, 
and computer science. 


2 AI Science Roadmap 
The main focus in AI science is answering the question of how does the human mind 
work?  It has roots in cognitive neuroscience, philosophy, psychology, and logicism.  By 
discovering the “science” to this  arena, it will enable the engineering solution to emerge 
as a consequence of this work.  Unfortunately, this is an incredibly hard problem with 
minimal progress advanced since monism, dualism, functionalism, determinism, etc. The 
main goal in AI Engineering is to achieve Artificial General Intelligence (AGI).   This is also 
a hard problem but is ripe for innovation.  AI engineering is a field populated by major AI 
companies such as Meta, Google, OpenAI, Amazon, Baidu, Tencent, etc.  The products 
coming from these companies are considered engineering solutions.  Now that we 
understand the breath and complexity of the problem, we can further develop an Action 
Plan.  The approach taken here is based on being holistic and strategic.  This design 
problem and its associated inter-connections are very broad.  Design is the cornerstone 
of engineering and  requires a structured approach (by using a systematic problem-
solving strategy).  Systems engineering is a set of steps (objects or elements) that 
interact to achieve a specific goal.  In this case, the specific goal is AGI.  Systems 
Engineering is a multi-disciplinary process and a means to delivering successful results. 
It is the basis for a holistic design and is used consistently in aerospace and the military 
and viewed as a well-established discipline for engineers.  It also accounts for the “ilities” 
such as safety, redundancy, reliability, and maintenance.  This approach embraces the 
system philosophy of  keeping it simple stupid  or KISS principle.  The approach is 
essential.  When we take a wider perspective of the problem, we find s cience has been 
the primary domain of academia while engineering has been the primary domain of 


3 industry.  The government ties everything together and it’s important role is management, 
providing insight , oversight, and guidance.   
Systems engineering is the applied aspects of system theory, a cohesive group of 
interrelated, interdependent components that can be natural (human intelligence) or 
artificial (artificial intelligence).   The  various AI components are captured here in 
something that we refer to as the AI Technology base (see next figure).  Basically, every 
system has casual boundaries, is influenced by their context, is defined by its structure, 
function and role, and is expressed through its relations with other systems.  Engineering 
is the practice of using natural science, mathematics, and the engineering design process 
to solve problems within technology, increas ing efficiency and productivity, and improv ing 
designs.  As such, AI Engineering is the application of AI Science to the optimum 
conversion of the resources of nature to the uses of humankind.   Please pay special 
attention to the highlighted boxes.   The process shown in the diagram above the AI 
Technology Base is the systems engineering process.  
AI Engineering Roadmap 
The past seventy years have produced a wide breath of AI technologies collected into 
something that we refer to here as an AI technology base.   In recent years, this collection 
of AI technologies has been populated by deep learning, transformers, large language 
models, etc.  These AI technologies may seem random, but popularity between 
connectionist theor ies and symbolic manipulation theories have switched and fluctuated 
over time to being in vogue at the time.  It is our intention to indiv idually evaluate the 
various technologies available which is integral to the system engineering process of 


4 developing AGI.  In typical large programs, management runs parallel to the design 
process.  It is the job of management to assess each technology and to summarize each 
technology in terms of maturity (can also be carried forward as a risk analysis activity).  NASA and DOE use the Technological Readiness Level (TRL), a maturity scale used to 
understand critical technologies.  Unfortunately, the ratings can be subjective and may 
not have the required resolution necessary to accurately determine the technologies’ 
readiness as required when needed.  Past experience has shown that for any technology, 
there could be parts that are more mature than other parts within the same technology .  
More importantly , each rating should be justified with a rationale statement, similar to the  
requirements’ rationale statement (which expands further justification) as defined in the 
system engineering process. 
The AI Science roadmap is simple and straight-forward.  This roadmap leaves room for 
research to continue to someday answer some critical issues about the human mind.  And 
the majority of the AI Action Plan 2025 will focus on AI Engineering with the purpose of 
developing and fielding AI machine(s) by integrating hardware and software.  Systems 
engineering follows an established process: starting with the problem, followed by 
developing the requirements, and next a step to come to consensus on a concept of 
operations (CONOPs).  But prior to developing the concept of operations, a specific 
decision must be made on the human-computer interface, and whether the system is fully 
autonomous, automatic, or a shared situation between a human operator and its software. 
Spectrum of Computational Load Carrying between Human and Computer 
The role of the operator must be determined early (or if the action team will carry all the 
options forward during the study) since it will impact the architecture and requirements of 
the system.  Experience has shown that a human carrying the entire cognitive load 
(known as teleoperation) is well established and a computer carrying its entire cognitive 
load (automatic or autonomous) is realistic, but some of the mixed modes (shared control 


5 or supervisory control) are harder to implement due to some transitioning issues (refer to 
T. Sheridan).  A synergistic process between requirements, mode of operation, and its
architecture (processor hardware and AI software) will be performed to optimize the
system to be greater than the sum of its parts (as taken from the AI Technology Base).
The key to the proposed AI Engineering Roadmap, besides the AI Technology Base and
the Human-Machine Interface, is the architecture, both functional  and physical.   The
architecture, which includes derived requirements in the form of AI behaviors establishedfrom AI Science, connects software to software and connects software to the hardware
(including sensors, processors, power, and actuators for robotics).
The architecture develops the framework to integrate the various AI technologies into a 
cohesive system.  Repeating, the AI Engineering goal is to develop Artificial General 
Intelligence (AGI) or similar .  The a rchitectures require the appropriate hooks and scars 
to be able to evolve the system from an initial operating configuration (IOC) to a more 
advanced capability over time.  Not all the technologies in the AI technology base will 
apply to every architecture.  There are subsets to AGI that can contribute to other suitable 
systems, e.g. autonomous systems, situational awareness systems, robot process 
automation (RPA) systems, etc .   The ultimate artificial human is a humanoid with AGI.   
The system design process is rigorous to improve our chances of success and to meet 
the team’s objectives.  Without requirements, this activity becomes a hobbyist project and 
there are no guarantees.  The important first step to a systematic approach is to 
understand the problem to be solved (Ref. Polya), developing requirements that can later 
be verified with testing, maturing the human-computer interface to better understand the concept-of-operations, and eventually producing the architecture.  This sequence is a 
serial, waterfall process.  The a rchitecture step signifies the beginning of the design 
sequence to also include analysis, modeling, and leading up to a final detail design.  This 
work is checked by two formal design reviews: a preliminary design review (PDR) and a 
critical design review (CDR).  This is followed by the process of hardware development 
(CPU, GPU, TPU, QPU) and more importantly software development (assembling AI 
software modules).  In typical engineering designs, the assembly step is typically reserved 
for putting hardware together , but this time the team will focus on assembling software 
modules, including daily regression testing (a key function) to insure software stability .  
Integration involves combining the hardware with the software.  Finally, t esting is critical 
for verification and validation (V&V) of the requirements and acceptance of the deliverable 
AI System.  There are some NSF Testbeds being developed that can be used for AI 
development testing and acceptance demonstrations for final customer validation (of 
capability).  It is expected that we will  have a number of smaller demonstrations along the 
way for management and stake holders to enhance public engagement. 
Returning to the Action Plan and using the vernacular of AI language, a “plan” is a 
sequence of steps.  The plan starts with a starting point and a goal, and similar to  
implementing a search tree, there are intermediate steps that can be taken to reach the 
goal.  It is important to remember that any plan will have contingencies, which may require re-planning.  This is not uncommon. The plan needs to be actionable which fits into Craik’s 
deliberate (or sense-plan-act) paradigm in robotics.  The key to any robotic system is all 


6 about control.  Thus, the OSTP AI Action Plan should be a sequence of steps that can be 
controlled and monitored with discrete feedback (learned from cybernetics).  The first step 
in developing the plan is to build the technology roadmap.  The AI roadmaps  will form 
the framework for the overall technology development process.  As described earlier, 
there are two roadmaps to be developed: an AI Science roadmap that feeds into the AI 
Engineering roadmap.  It is important to include science, but the primary focus should be 
on the AI Engineering roadmap.  The roadmaps need to be adaptive such that break-
thrus in science should be quickly inserted into the AI engineering roadmap. 
This means that all AI activities around the world needs to be captured in this roadmap, 
which can be difficult with individual companies developing proprietary research & 
development activities.  The notion is not to document proprietary work, but to summarize 
the work in order to assess its place within the roadmap (i.e. capabilities).  To stay 
objective, members of the roadmap team will have to sign non-disclosure statements with industry and academia.  The hard part is developing the roadmap , and myself having 
personal experience in developing two government sponsored roadmaps (NASA and 
Department of Energy) and one in industry (Lockheed Martin).  The Department of Energy 
Roadmap focused on the individual “needs” within each national laboratory in the nuclear complex and the NASA roadmap was delineated by core capabilities such as exploration 
and mobility for space exploration.  The Lockheed Martin Roadmap was specific to 
Autonomy and conducted across the various Lockheed Martin business segments 
(delineated by domain) .  One key here is to get knowledgeable people to work on this 
effort that can work judiciously to produce the map accurately and quickly.  Having worked 
on the National Automated Highway System Consortium (NAHSC) through the U.S. Department of Transportation, the roadmap team must be managed at a reasonable size 
(NAHSC had nine members) in order to make decisions in a timely manner .   
The AI Roadmap is a visual way to connect strategy to actual work in order to deliver 
against its goals.  It should be a workable plan that the country can believe in and follow. 
This requires a buy-in for all that are involved, in academia, industry and the government.  
The AI Roadmap includes goals, initiatives (both existing and new), and big themes of 
work that will help the country achieve both the vision and mission.  The AI Roadmap is a 
high-level document that is a  visual representation of a strategy ; it answers the questions of 
what will be done, who will be involved in the work, the details of scope and resource allocation, 
as well as how and why certain initiatives were prioritized over others.  The AI Roadmap cannot 
live in a silo and is essentiall y a communication tool for decision -makers and stakeholders.  It 
will have the following clear depiction of dependencies, having the right amount of detail, and 
having an assessment of the AI technologies today (across government, industry, and 
academia).  The AI Roadmap team needs to objectively identify strengths, weakness, and 
especially gaps (both domestically and internationally)  in the technologies .  Finally, the roadmap 
will be very broad with many interfaces which have complex interactions , i.e. introducing 
unexpected emerging properties.  


7 Developing the Roadmap  
The project starts with selecting the team to work on the project.  The optimal size would be 9 -
12 scientist and engineers.  All members should be full -time with no distractions (no part -time 
workers that cannot commit full -time to this endeavor).  The OSTP member will not be full -time 
due to his/her other responsibilities.  The plan is to produce a first draft of the AI Roadmap in 6 -
months.  This is not an academic exercise .  Similar to the Manhattan project or the methodology 
used by the Lockheed Martin “Skunkworks”, in terms of producing a new aircraft with  minimal 
distractions , to focus on the team’s goals.  Members should be co -located  during the study , with 
maybe a free weekend every two weeks to go home to attend to personal needs.  Midway (after 
three months), the participants are given a week holiday to recharge batteries and again rejoin 
family.  The key is selecting workers  as opposed to the opposite in industry where everyone 
wants to be a manager to delegate work to others.   Having e xperienced professionals are the 
key. 
As stated earlier, there will be two roadmaps with the primary focus on the AI Engineering 
roadmap. But a neuroscientist should be selected to lead the AI Science  roadmap and the 
deliverable product would be a summary on the state -of-the art of mind research.  The product 
of the team should be un- biased and as objective as possible.  There are some interesting 
questions to be asked  of AI Science : 
• How does the mind really work?  
• Can a connectionist neural network accomplish symbolic manipulation, or maybe more 
generically, is an integrated AI  a form of neuro -symbolic AI? 
• Is the modern computer system a good analogy for the mind/brain problem?  
• What are the limitations of the mind and of the brain , or both ? 
It would be important for the entire team to be at the same place mentally, and maybe the AI 
Science team should be a subset of the entire AI Roadmap team.  There will be instances where 
the AI Science team needs to make site visits (travel) to gather information from leaders in the 
field in order to build the AI Science roadmap.  
The AI Engineering roadmap is a different beast entirely.   There needs to be a state of the art of 
artificial intelligence technologies.  For reference, t here is the Handbook of Artificial Intelligence  
(Copyrighted in 1981 by editors Barr and Feigenbaum) and Artificial Intelligence: A Modern 
Approach  by Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig (copyright 1995)  that are both fundamental to AI  
teaching.  There is a vast amount of background references in this subject.  These two books 
are the most cited references on AI but does not accurately reflect the most recent stage in the 
development of the technology and does not incorporate the newest technologies, ideas, and 
features.  During the development of the Department of Energy’s roadmap, we developed 
various working groups that visited many pertinent institutions relevant to our effort.  
Affectionately known as road trips , we need to continue this work to visit key institutions in this 
country and potentially others .  This includes a combination of government, academic, an d 
industrial affiliations.  This is the reason for identifying and establishing non -disclosure 
agreements with the visited institutions.  


8 Initial candidate institutions to visit include:  
Academia  Private Institutions  
University of California at Berkeley  Santa Fe Institute  
Stanford University  Robotics and AI Institute (RAI Institute) 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology  Toyota Technological Institute at Chicago  
Carnegie Mellon University  Institute for Human -Machine Cognition  
University of California at San Diego  
Industry  
OpenAI  Google/Alphabet  AI 
Tesla AI & Robotics  AI at Meta  
Amazon AI Anthropic  
Apple Machine Learning Research  Vicarious  
Google Deepmind  IBM Research  
Nvidia Anduril  
GitHub  Microsoft AI Research  
This list of institutions is preliminary and subject to change.  During the information collection 
process, the team is required to use the Ray -Ban Meta AI glasses to document the different 
visits (respecting the permission to have cameras  in the fact finding task ).  Recent technologies 
of interest include:  
• AdaBoost  
• Affinity Propagation  
• Agents 
• Large Language Models  
• Convolutions  
• Transformers  
• Attention Mechanisms  
• Autoencoders  
• Backpropagation  
• Multi- layer Perceptron  
• Embeddings  
• Diffusion Models  
• Embeddings  
• Vector Databases  
• Graph Neural Networks  
• Knowledge Graphs  
• N-grams  
• Normalization  
• Random Forest  
• Softmax 
• Tokens  
• Support Vector Machines  
• Kolmogorov -Arnold Networks  


9 •Backpropagation for Training
Again, this is only a partial list.  However, recently Yann 
LeCun made a series of statements to abandon generative 
models, probabilistic models, contrastive methods, and 
reinforcement learning.  We, as a team, must investigate 
where Dr. LeCun is coming from in order to understand his 
intentions . Having worked on a DARPA autonomous 
vehicle program in the 1990s, we integrated 1.6 million lines of code on five SPARC 
workstations to drive both on-road and offroad, resulting in a software intensive program 
which required arduous integration and testing.  My colleagues and I served as software 
integrators by receiving code from many industrial and academic partners, and 
documenting the software was a difficult task.  One of m y roles on this DARPA program 
was to transfer technology and as a result, I had to capsulized some of the technologies 
demonstrated into software packages of different capabilities for transfer such as 1) 
teleoperation and 2) mission planning.  These packages are quantified by the size of the 
package, understanding the required inputs and expected outputs to and from the 
software (described in a data flow diagrams), and all other interactions with each 
particular software packet.  This also included hardware requirements to run the code.  A 
key architectural issue is whether these technologies are closely coupled or loosely coupled with other technologies, e.g. data cleaning would be tightly coupled to machine 
learning. 
The listed recent technologies of interest will not preclude classical AI technologies: 
search, decision trees, expert systems (another form of decision-making), reasoning, 
natural language processing, anomaly detection, planning (global and local), logic, 
symbolic manipulation, diagnostics, prognostics, inference, etc.  The results of the fact-
finding expeditions and the state-of-the -art for each technology will be documented in a 
report on the technologies investigated from the AI Technology Base.   The remaining task 
is to document the AI Engineering roadm ap.  The Roadmap and the state-of-the -art report 
can occur in parallel. 
AI Science helps to identify the individual technologies to be investigated in the AI 
Technology Base (can be referred to as a database, but there must be a better title for 
this grouping and possibly renamed).  The problem statement also receives input from AI 
Science, and understanding the problem is a critical step.  For example, a common test for individuals is to recall the problem in their own words (used on my students).  So, is 
the problem to achieve AGI or something different?  This sets the stage for the AI Engineering roadmap.  At this point, the problem would be open to further debate among 
the team  to further clarify the problem.  Moving forward, proper requirements must be 
developed including the formalism of using “shall” and include a rationale for each 
requirement as justification.  The requirements activity should be led by a team member 
with expertise in psychology (defining the behaviors required for the final product).  At this 
time, the roadmap should focus on autonomy as the HRI, and the team can re-address 
the human-machine interface later.  Without the human, it makes dictating the concept of 
operations easier.   It should be remembered that all assumptions made during this 


10 process must be validated in order to continue the plan.  Otherwise, bad assumptions 
must be corrected and the previous analysis has to be re-done.   
In a parallel thread, the team  should have a notion or conceptual design of what is AI.  
Everyone has ideas creating an abundance of concepts to investigate.  For example, 
typical proposals to government solicitations would start with a baseline or concept of 
what the offeror is planning on delivering.  Some engineers would refer to this as the Initial 
Operating Configuration (IOC).  There will be some back and forth between the 
requirements, architecture, concept of operations and the conceptual design in order to 
work out the details, and this process is to refine all the constituents, and is called synergy 
(term used in the NASA systems engineering manual). The functional architecture is in 
practice all software (what it has to do), and the physical architecture is code name for 
hardware.  Technologies in the AI Technology base populate the functional architecture 
with inputs -outputs, maybe having a data dictionary, and can balance “functions” at the 
appropriate level of abstraction (similar to using Hatley -Pirbhai modeling, DeMarco 
modeling, or data flow modeling).  Good  examples of a high -level architecture are 
documented on the Vehicle Management System ( on a F-35 aircraft) or the Vehicle 
System Manager (VSM) on the NASA Orion spacecraft.   Remember, the physical 
architecture is designed to support the software.  Typically, the architecture will take a 
global view of  AI with the goal of looking for holes in the design.  We are looking for 
strengths and weaknesses in the technologies.  These holes are critical to the action plan for focusing this country’s needs for keeping the nation’s effort at the fore front.  
Developing the architecture and populating the design from the AI Technology Base is a 
key step in the action plan.  The architecture itself is a roadmap.  The Preliminary Design 
Phase and the Critical Design Phase is dominated by modeling and analysis.  System 
analysis include trade studies and a gap analysis of the critical technologies.  The analysis 
will also include the typical analysis on computation capacity, memory, ASICs, FPGAs, 
power requirements, and all temporal issues from timing and update rates that impact 
processing cycles.  For example, aircraft might incorporate ARINC 645 (makes a single 
processor to function like 20 smaller processors through partitioning). This technology is 
used on commercial aircraft today.  Representation, both internal and external, is key to 
artificial intelligence.  Some representation are AI models that include one or more of the 
following: mental models, world models, geometric models, script theory, frames, 
language models, etc.   Some researchers use ensemble theory to combine multiple 
disparate models.  Models are essential to predict the future or what will happen next, 
similar to the way  current weather models predict tomorrow’s weather.  Predictive 
capabilities are one of the pillars for AI, along with learning, knowledge, and natural 
language.  Passing the critical design review delineat es the go-ahead for hardware and 
software development.   This is where the rubber-meets-the -road in AI.  As the software is 
assembled into larger working modules, they will be integrated with its intended hardware 
(be it with 2 nm or 4 nm CPU technology or qubits if available).  Upon working, testing is 
used to measure performance and verify requirements.   The final test may be a 
demonstration of the final capability, whether AGI or other. The learning component will require a step for training the model on the data.  There may be several iterations through 
the AI Engineering roadmap to identify different activities or to develop new capabilities.  


11 At the high rate AI technologies are being developed today, the roadmap will have to be 
updated constantly to ensure currency with the state-of-the-art. 
Similar to the AI Science roadmap, there are some interesting questions to be asked about the 
AI Engineering roadmap:  
•Can we develop an AGI or superAGI system all at once or do we need to evolve the
system incrementally ? 
•How do we integrate symbolic systems with connectionist systems (also known as sub -
symbolic) ? 
•Real- time performance is always desirable, but there are limitations.  Are we processor
limited per Moore’s Law or by memory or by power limitations (or other such as requiring
thermal considerations)?  
•How are guiderails integrated into the system (similar to DeepSeek -V3)?
•How can we transition from specific use- cases to the general case and vice versa?  Are
there limitations to the level of abstractness to a level of detail required to not lose
meaning?  
The planned deliverables for this effort should  include:  the AI Science Roadmap, AI Engineering 
Roadmap, site visit write -ups (could be included as an appendix), physical architecture, 
functional architecture, test data, requirements table, performance analysis, etc.  Systems 
engineering require complete and thorough documentation.   Finally, m any presentations are 
anticipated to be given by the team members in various forums.  
Please use all or parts of this RFI to achieve your objectives.  We are available for further 
clarification or consultation.  For additional reference, please refer to: 
www.routledge.com/9781032673110  
Our contact information are:  
Wendell Chun 
Zachary Sartor 
“This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by 
the government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without 
attribution.” 


12 Acronyms: 
AGI Artificial General Intelligence  
AI Artificial Intelligence  
ASIC Application -specific integrated circuit  
CONOPs  Concept of Operations  
CPU Central Processing Unit  
CDR Critical Design Review  
FPGAs Field Programmable Gate Arrays  
GPU Graphical Processing Unit  
HCI Human- Computer Interface  
HRI Human- Robot Interface  
IOC Initial Operating Configuration  
KISS Keep it simple, stupid  
LLM Large Language Models  
Nm Nanometer  
PDR Preliminary Design Review  
RFI Request for Information  
TPU Tensor Processing Unit  
TRL Technology Readiness Level  
QPU Quantum Processing Unit  


