Wevdy Estainvil 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
Objections to Unethical Data Scraping by Tech Conglomerates 
I hope this message finds you well: 
As a citizen of the United States, I object to plans to make permissible the exploitation of 
all available user data in the name of empowering a tech industry that is already running 
unchecked. This move runs counter not only to common sense, but the manner in which the 
layman has been forced to operate for years. This would undermine creative industries that 
provide immense value to the daily lives of people across the globe; an industry currently being 
exploited for the benefit of these very same executives. This technology has the potential to 
undercut creative contractors from all walks of life, not on the basis of providing a comparable 
service or skill, but on the basis of being able to provide an output faster than any person (due to 
the generative models averaging real work done by real people). The technology does not have 
the ability to democratize art or creative endeavors as their respective companies would like you 
to believe. This is partly due to creative pursuits already being democratic by nature; anyone can 
participate at any level with any available materials. It is also due to the much more pressing 
issue of the generative artificial intelligence industry being a house of cards poised to topple at 


the expense of the common man and what dwindling goodwill the United States government has 
left.  This motion would be a grave mistake and a far cry from actions that seek to “promote 
human flourishing, economic competitiveness, and national security”. As governments look to 
the United States for how they will deal with legislation regarding generative artificial 
intelligence moving forward, it is imperative that these decisions be made with the people in 
mind and not the tech oligarchs. 


