Docusign  Envelope  ID: 1959C76F -CE7B -4F74 -A33B -3611334D9A93  
255 Shoreline  Drive,  Suite  428 
Redwood City, CA 94065  
Page  1 of 5 March 14, 2025 
Michael Kratsios  
Director [PENDING CONFIRMATION]  
Office  of Science  & Technology  Policy 
The White House  
1600  Pennsylvania  Ave NW 
Washington, DC 20500  
Sethuraman  Panchanathan 
Director  
National  Science  Foundation 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue  
Alexandria,  VA 22314  
Attention:  Faisal D’Souza, NCO and NITRD Program  
Subject:  RFI - The Development of an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan 
[Federal  Register  2025 -02305.  https://federalregister.gov/d/2025 -02305 ] 
Submitted via email at 
Dear Directors Kratsios and Panchanathan,  
On behalf of Whiterabbit.ai (Whiterabbit or the company), thank you for the opportunity to 
respond to your recent Request for Information (RFI) on the Development of an Artificial 
Intelligence  (AI) Action  Plan.  We appreciate  your efforts  to strengthen  U.S. leadership  in AI and 
secure a brighter future for all Americans. We fully support your goals to advance human  
well-being, economic growth, and national security through this AI Action Plan.  
Founded in 2017, Whiterabbit.ai is an innovative, venture -backed AI startup based in Silicon 
Valley. Our leadership team comprises experienced healthcare executives, leading scientists and 
successful  technology  entrepreneurs.  Our board  includes  industry  leaders  across  health,  software, 
insurance, outpatient radiology, and breast cancer research. As AI innovators, we are developing 
AI medical devices that require U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) oversight and market 
authorization.  
We offer  the following  input  to the development  of an AI Action  Plan,  as directed  by Executive 
Order 14179 (Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence) with a 
specific focus on AI in healthcare.  


Docusign  Envelope  ID: 1959C76F -CE7B -4F74 -A33B -3611334D9A93  
255 Shoreline  Drive,  Suite  428 
Redwood City, CA 94065  
Page  2 of 5 I.AI Innovation  in Healthcare  Leads to Wider AI Dominance
AI innovation in healthcare is pivotal to establishing the United States as a global leader in 
artificial intelligence, driving economic growth, technological advancement, and strategic 
dominance. Healthcare is a high -impact sector where AI applications, such as predictive 
analytics, automated diagnostics, and personalized medicine, showcase the transformative 
potential of machine learning and deep learning models.1 As the U.S. pioneers AI -driven 
advancements  in medical  imaging,  drug discovery,  robotic -assisted  surgery,  and virtual  health 
monitoring, it strengthens its position as the epicenter of AI research and commercialization.2 
Integrating  AI into healthcare  not only enhances  patient  outcomes  and operational  efficiency  but 
also attracts substantial investment from both the private and public sectors, fueling further 
innovation.3 With healthcare spending in the United States continuing to rise, leveraging AI to 
augment healthcare providers presents a critical solution that does not require a compromise on 
healthcare quality or access to increase cost efficiency. The growing physician shortage, 
projected by the Association of American Medical Colleges to grow to 86,000 physicians by 
2036,4 underscores  the urgent  need  for this administration  to support  AI solutions  that bolster  the 
capabilities of American physicians.  
Moreover,  leadership  in AI-powered  healthcare  gives  the U.S. a competitive  edge  in the global 
AI landscape. It enables the U.S. to set industry standards, shape regulatory frameworks, and 
export cutting -edge medical technologies.5 Countries that command AI -driven healthcare will 
not only have stronger healthcare systems but will also control critical AI infrastructure, 
intellectual property, and data ecosystems that underpin broader AI applications.6 
II.Game-Changing  Healthcare  Innovation  is Stifled by Antiquated  Regulations  and
Outdated Interpretations Thereof
AI has demonstrated its potential to significantly reduce healthcare costs while improving 
healthcare  outcomes.7 Patients  are now more  willing  and enthusiastic  than ever for AI to perform 
diagnostic tasks, and physicians have been incorporating AI into their workflows since the late 
1990s.8 
1 Topol,  E. (2019).  Deep  Medicine:  How  Artificial  Intelligence  Can Make  Healthcare  Human  Again . Basic  Books  
2 National  Academy  of Medicine.  (2021).  Artificial  Intelligence  in Healthcare:  The Hope,  The Hype,  The Promise, 
The Peril . Washington, DC.  
3 McKinsey  & Company.  (2023).  The Future  of AI in Healthcare:  Transforming  Patient  Care  and Industry  Growth . 
4 Association  of American  Medical  Colleges.  (2024).  New AAMC  Report  Shows  Continuing  Projected  Physician 
Shortage.  
5 Executive  Office  of the President.  (2020).  American  Artificial  Intelligence  Initiative:  Year  One Annual  Report.  
6 World  Economic  Forum.  (2022).  AI-Driven  Healthcare:  Opportunities  and Risks  in a Global  Context . 
7 Abramoff  et al. (2022).  A reimbursement  framework  for artificial  intelligence  in healthcare . Npj Digital  Medicine.  
8 Summary  of Safety  and Effectiveness  Data:  R2 Technologies  (P970058)  1998.  P970058.  U. S. Food  and Drug 
Administration.  


Docusign  Envelope  ID: 1959C76F -CE7B -4F74 -A33B -3611334D9A93  
255 Shoreline  Drive,  Suite  428 
Redwood City, CA 94065  
Page  3 of 5 However,  there  are existing  regulations  originally  intended  to prevent  unqualified  persons  from 
performing medical tasks that may inadvertently restrict the use of FDA -authorized AI 
technologies. When interpreted literally, these regulations could preclude qualified AI from 
performing specific healthcare tasks, despite FDA approval and clear clinical benefits.  
Regulatory  ambiguity  creates  confusion  about  whether  AI can be used for a certain  task which 
discourages companies from pursuing the most innovative technologies and deters investors 
from supporting them.  
A salient example of this challenge is the Mammography Quality Standards Act (MQSA). 
Enacted in 1992, MQSA aimed to ensure that all women have access to high -quality 
mammography  services  by establishing  uniform  standards  for mammography  facilities  across  the 
United States. The Act addressed concerns such as poor quality equipment, inadequately trained 
staff,  and inconsistent  quality  assurance  procedures.  Its ultimate  goal was to improve  early  breast 
cancer detection through standardized, quality imaging practices.9 Among these standards and 
requirements were the following:  
●42 USC § 263b(f)(1)(D): … a requirement that mammograms be interpreted by a
physician  who is certified  as qualified  to interpret  radiological  procedures,  including
mammography…
●42 USC § 263b(f)(1)(G)(ii)(I): … a requirement that a facility must assure the
preparation  of a written  report  of the results  of any mammography  examination  signed
by the interpreting physician ;
At the time of MQSA’s introduction, there was a concern about nurse practitioners or other 
inexperienced clinicians reading mammograms. AI -based technologies (e.g. deep learning) were 
still in their infancy and as a result, the law did not anticipate advancements such as expert -level 
computer  algorithms.  This includes  AI systems  that could  be evaluated  by the FDA  and shown  to 
improve radiologist accuracy while significantly reducing their workload through autonomous 
screening assessment.  
However,  the language  within  MQSA  could  be interpreted  to prohibit  the clinical  use of such AI 
devices, even if they meet the FDA’s safety and efficacy requirements.  
Another example of potential regulatory impediment is Section 503(b) of Federal Food, Drug, 
and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 353(b)), which requires that a drug be prescribed only by a 
“practitioner licensed by law to administer such drug.” This regulation could prevent the use of 
an AI for prescribing  a drug even  if the AI demonstrated  exceptional  safety  and effectiveness  and 
was authorized by the FDA for that purpose.  
9 CDC,  MMWR,  Weekly,  August  19, 1994  / 43(32);596 -597 Quality  Standards:  Mammography  Facilities  


Docusign  Envelope  ID: 1959C76F -CE7B -4F74 -A33B -3611334D9A93  
255 Shoreline  Drive,  Suite  428 
Redwood City, CA 94065  
Page  4 of 5 Similarly,  in the Social  Security  Act, 42 CFR  § 410.23(b)  “Condition  for coverage  of screening 
for glaucoma” states:  
●42 CFR § 410.23(b): Medicare Part B pays for glaucoma screening examinations
provided  to eligible  beneficiaries  as described  in paragraph  (a)(2)  of this section  if they
are furnished  by or under the direct supervision  in the office setting of an optometrist
or ophthalmologist who is legally authorized to perform these services under State law
(or the State regulatory mechanism provided by State law) of the State in which the
services are furnished, as would otherwise be covered if furnished by a physician or
incident to a physician's professional service.
In this case, the development and adoption of new AI -based technology could make screening 
services  for glaucoma  far more  accessible  at a more  affordable  cost. However,  such a future  may 
be stifled if equivalent services provided by advanced AI are implicitly excluded from coverage 
due to legacy statutory language.  
III.To Enhance AI Innovation  in the Healthcare  Sector, We Recommend  a Broad Review of
Regulations Implicitly Excluding AI
To enhance  AI innovation  in the healthcare  sector,  we recommend  the following  AI Action  Plan.  
The plan should initiate a broad review of regulations that may implicitly exclude AI in 
healthcare,  with priority  given  to those  with greater  population  impact.  While  no comprehensive 
federal regulations explicitly exclude the use of AI in healthcare, many may inadvertently 
exclude autonomous AI, such as in the case with MQSA. This review will help prioritize 
necessary  regulatory  adjustments  or reinterpretations  to maximize  AI’s positive  impact  on health 
and prosperity.  
To remain a global leader in AI and healthcare innovation, the United States needs a clear 
directive  from  this administration  that disentangles  American  AI innovators  from  legacy  laws.  If 
the FDA  determines  that a device  is safe and effective  in performing  a function  independently  of 
a physician, regulations stating or implying that “only a trained physician can perform this 
function” should be interpreted to include artificial intelligence and machine learning 
technologies. America’s most innovative healthcare companies developing cutting -edge, AI 
medical  devices  are facing  existential  risk because  their innovations  have  advanced  beyond  what 
legislators could imagine when regulations were written decades ago.  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business -proprietary or confidential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government  in developing  the AI Action  Plan and associated  documents  without  attribution.  


Docusign  Envelope  ID: 1959C76F -CE7B -4F74 -A33B -3611334D9A93  
255 Shoreline  Drive,  Suite  428 
Redwood City, CA 94065  
Page  5 of 5 Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the development of an AI Action Plan . Please 
contact  me directly  at  or  if you have  any questions 
on our comments.  
Sincerely,  
Marguerite  Thomlinson  
Vice  President,  Regulatory  Affairs  and Quality 
Whiterabbit.ai  


