2/26/2025 via FDMS  
William Al   
Issuing a stark warning about AI, Elon Musk had also suggested that the technology could pose a 
bigger threat to the world than a nuclear war with North Korea. In the Twitter post, he had used an 
image carrying the words – In the end, the machines will win . “Mark my words, AI is far more 
dangerous than nukes…why do we have no regulatory oversight?” The head of DOGE, Elon Musk 
says, "Mark my works, AI is far more dangerous than nukes..why do we have no regulatory 
oversight?". So keep that in mind President T rump. Elon Musk also said this about AI, “I am not 
normally an advocate of regulation and oversight…I think one should generally err on the side of 
minimizing those things…but this is a case where you have a very serious danger to the public.” He 
called AI "a very serious danger to the public". Elon Musk quote: “I have exposure to the most 
cutting edge AI, and I think people should be really concerned by it…AI is a fundamental risk to the 
existence of human civilization in a way that car accidents, airplane  crashes, faulty drugs or bad 
food were not — they were harmful to a set of individuals within society, of course, but they were 
not harmful to society as a whole.” He called AI, "a fundamental risk to to the existance of human 
civilization". The national science foundation will review this comment. Another Elon Musk quote: 
‘The biggest issue I see with so -called AI experts is that they think they know more than they do, and 
they think they are smarter than they actually are…This tends to plague smart peopl e. They define 
themselves by their intelligence and they don’t like the idea that a machine could be way smarter 
than them, so they discount the idea — which is fundamentally flawed.” Elon Musk said, "so -called 
Ai experts think they know more than they do and they think they are smarter than they actually are." 
Clearly Elon Musk thinks AI is a massive threat. Will the so -called experts ignore Elon Musk's 
warning and others? Here is my own suggestion President Trump. Add a fail safe AI KILL SWITCH to 
your action plan just in case this AI Powerhouse you are creating decides to take full control and put 
us all at risk! Elon Musk quote, "a fundamental risk to the existance of human civilization".  


