 
 
In an earl ier time, a man was shoveling carriage waste in front of a livery stable when the first 
Henry A. Ford Model T raced past. Startled the man said out loud “ What  was that?  “Rose Wild 
January 12, 2018 ). "We were buried in fake news as long ago as 1894"  
 When a person reads a book the reader's  mind thinks . (The Coming Wave: Technology, Power, 
and the Twenty -first Century’s Greatest Dilemma by Mustafa Suleyman)  We live in a Post 
Literature Society we get information from other devices  God Bless the U.S.A." (also known as 
"Proud to Be an American" ) is an American patriotic song written and recorded by 
American  country  singer  Lee Greenwood , and is considered to be his  signature song . Released 
by MCA Nashville  on May 21, 1984,  (Fight the Power the Public Enemy Song released July 4, 
1989)  than the written text of books.   
Bill Gates the Microsoft co -founder and philanthropist selected The Coming Wave  for his 2024 
Holiday Reading List.  To educate  the reading public.  Mr. Gates did not found  his company in a 
garage he had a trust and his ancestors were people  with  an understanding of the complexities 
of big business.      
The book Wealth and Democracy written by Kevin Phillips provides a background on how we 
got to this point. Among the points the author makes is that 21 societies in the past that have 
proceeded to gut the middle class have all failed.  
It is worth noting that about (3,671) company stocks remain for sale on American Stock 
Markets which  is half as many as when Bill Clinton was president (7,322) this trend of fewer and 
fewer public stocks companies being sold holds even as more and more Americans hold 
equities in retirement instruments. Initial Public offerings  (IPO” s) before  George W. Bush’s 
presidency on average were 300 a year now only about 100 per year.  However, this is not true 
in foreign stock markets where more and more public comp anies are offered for sale each day 
increases.   
What is happening is that an investment vehicle known as Unicorn is being used to fund AI 
start -ups and sizing control of future wealth.  
I think making the United States the world leader in AI requires educating the masses. How 
many can name the quarterback for both teams in the Super Bowl?  Where does  AI TV  add fit in  
the lineup during the big game? The trick is the Post Literature Society  is the understanding we 
have a President who does not read books. The funding from the Sputnik scare of 1957 in the 
fullness of time will lead to the Internet.  
Why Henry Ford Doubled Worker Wages To $5 In 1914  
I think take a hard look at Henry Ford's $5.00 hours wage increase and included the worker in 
the money.  


William Michael Traubert    
 
 


