Comments on Office of Science and Technology 
Policy RFI on the Development of an AI Action Plan 
March 15, 2025  
Workday appreciates the opportunity to provide input on the administration’s forthcoming AI 
Action Plan to advance America's AI leadership, as directed by Executive Order 14179 
(Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artiﬁcial Intelligence). 
Workday is the AI platform that helps organizations manage their most important assets – their 
people and money. The Workday platform is built with AI at the core to help customers elevate 
people, supercharge work, and move their business forever forward. Workday is used by more 
than 11,000 organizations around the world and across industries – from medium-sized 
businesses to more than 60% of the Fortune 500. 
Our AI-powered applications help our customers drive smarter decisions, empower their 
employees and enable growth. We believe that AI should elevate human potential – not replace it. 
Our approach ensures that technology works alongside people, simplifying processes, 
enhancing decision-making, and improving workforce experiences. A key part of the AI-driven transformation at work is the rise of AI agents, or, agentic AI. Agents 
are intelligent systems that perceive details from their environment, reason through next steps, 
and execute tasks to achieve speciﬁc goals. This technology moves beyond data analysis and 
predictions to autonomous execution, seamlessly integrating AI and people to handle complex 
processes. 
Workday and our partners are building role-based agents that each contain a con ﬁgurable set of 
skills that support people in their roles. As organizations adopt more and more AI agents, and as 
these agents become increasingly embedded in the workforce, businesses need a way to govern, 
optimize, and integrate them responsibly. We recently introduced the Workday Agent System of 
Record, which allows organizations to manage, orchestrate, and govern their ﬂeet of AI agents 
alongside their incumbent workforce all on a single platform. 
With advocacy teams in North America, Europe, and the Asia Paci ﬁc, Workday is proud of the 
constructive role we play in the public policy process. Consistent with our values, Workday 
advocates for policies that build trust, unlock human potential, and enable us to serve our 
customers. Workday has emerged as a leading voice on AI policy in the HR context and we are 
focused on ensuring the evolving AI policy landscape supports thoughtful AI governance 
approaches that are risk-based, leverage existing and workable accountability tools like impact 
assessments, clearly delineate responsibilities among those in the AI value chain, and support 
international harmonization. 
1 


If you have any questions or would like further information, please don’t hesitate to contact 
Chandler Morse, VP, Corporate Affairs
Bolster U.S. AI Standards Leadership 
The U.S. faces a unique opportunity to lead the world not only in AI technolog y, but in leading AI 
standards development as well. As with any technolog y, voluntar y, consensus-based technical 
standards will play a critical role in underpinning AI innovation, helping American companies 
meet growing demands to demonstrate that their AI tools are built to widely-accepted criteria, and 
market their AI technology around the world. Technical standards for AI are particularly important 
to ensure global companies and small businesses alike can look to a single predictable and 
consistent framework. President Trump’s 2019 Executive Order on Maintaining American 
Leadership in AI recognized that the U.S. “must driv e development of appropriate technical 
standards” to enable AI adoption. We appreciate that OSTP Director nominee Michael Kratsios 
has publicly acknowledged the importance of U.S. leadership in setting AI standards. 
As the global AI regulatory environment becomes increasingly complex and AI standards 
advance within international and regional fora, this is a critical moment for strong U.S. leadership 
in AI standards development. The National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST) plays a 
key role in AI standards development as the lead agency coordinating federal engagement in the 
development and use of international standards. NIST and other agencies engage in standards 
development organizations, such as the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and 
the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC). NIST also leads important 
pre-standardization work, such as its leading AI Risk Management Framework.  
We encourage the administration to support these critical elements of NIST’s mission that 
leverage its core expertise in measurement science. In contrast to other countries, the federal 
government does not control or direct how standar ds are developed in the United States. Rathe r, 
the U.S. standards development system is voluntar y, decentralized, and led by independent 
non-governmental bodies that convene industr y, government, civil societ y, and academia on 
equal footing. This approach is widely recognized as a key factor in sustaining U.S. technology 
leadership. As international and regional standards bodies accelerate their AI standardization 
work, U.S. leadership in these venues will help ensure that global AI standards re ﬂect U.S. values 
and the technical state-of-the-art pioneered by U.S. industr y. We encourage the administration to 
invest in federal AI standards engagement as a key lever to advance U.S. AI leadership broadl y. 
Invest in the NIST AI Risk Management Framework 
In 2019, the Trump administration recognized that trustworthy AI is underpinned by robust 
frameworks and technical standards. President Trump signed the National AI Initiative Act, which 
directed NIST to develop its voluntary AI Risk Managem ent Framework (AI RMF) through an 
open, multi-stakeholder process. Released in 2023, the NIST AI RMF stands apart as a credible, 
2 


 
effective, and widely-accepted framework that represents a high water mark for U.S. federal AI 
governance. Amid an increasingly complex and dynamic AI regulatory environment both in the 
U.S. and around the world today, the NIST AI RMF has become a north star for science-based 
ground truth in AI risk management. Today it underpins AI risk management practices throughout 
the U.S. private sector and has shaped key policy, frameworks, and standards around the world. 
Workday partnered with other stakeholders as an early champion for the creation of the NIST AI 
RMF in 2019. We participated in its development, implemented it as part of our AI development 
process, and have publicly supported the importance of NIST’s work and the adoption of the framework. Workday’s implementation of the AI RMF the subject was NIST’s ﬁrst-ever case study 
highlighting industry adoption.  
In light of its widespread success as a practical, workable, and in ﬂuential risk management tool, 
we encourage the administration to continue investing in the NIST AI Framework. In particular, 
the administration should prioritize the Framework’s adoption and acceptance by U.S. trading 
partners, building on NIST’s previous success in internationalizing its inﬂuential Privacy and 
Cybersecurity Frameworks. While NIST has already translated the AI Framework into other 
languages, more should be done to expand its use by U.S. allies and incorporate its contents into 
ongoing international AI governance deliberations. Expanding the reach and utilization of the 
NIST AI Framework would bolster the competitiveness of the U.S. technology sector in foreign 
markets and strengthen U.S. AI leadership and innovation.  
Chart a Path Forward on AI Governance 
In his ﬁrst term, President Trump anticipated AI’s strategic importance in his executive orders on 
maintaining U.S. AI leadership and promoting the use of trustworthy AI in the federal government. 
Despite signi ﬁcant technological advancements since these executive orders, their underlying 
principles and objectives have enduring relevance today. We recommend that, as the 
administration charts a path forward on AI policy, it leverages those principles as a means to 
advance U.S. AI leadership. 
In particular, we recommend the administration implement the Office of Management and 
Budget’s “Guidance for Regulation of Arti ﬁcial Intelligence Applications” ( M-21-06). Published in 
November 2020 pursuant to EO 13859 , the OMB memo identi ﬁed the policy considerations that 
should guide federal agencies’ regulatory and non-regulatory approaches to AI. In particular, it 
established ten Principles for the Stewardship of AI Applications: public trust in AI, public 
participation, scientiﬁc integrity and information quality, risk assessment and management, 
bene ﬁts and costs, ﬂexibility, fairness and non-discrimination, disclosure and transparency, safety 
and security, and interagency coordination. While M-21-06 was published prior to the 
advancements in large language models that are driving much of today’s AI policy conversation, 
we believe these ten core principles remain a foundational starting point for any federal approach 
to AI policy.  
As with the technology itself, since the 2019 and 2020 executive orders, the global AI regulatory 
environment too has evolved substantially. To the extent that the administration is considering 
  3 


potential approaches to AI governance, we recommend focusing on those that drive federal AI 
adoption by encouraging common sense risk management practices. For example, the 
administration may consider encouraging agencies to adhere to the NIST AI RMF, a concept that 
garnered bipartisan interest in the 118th Congress through the Federal Artiﬁcial Intelligence Risk 
Management Act of 2023 (S.3205/H.R. 6936). Agencies could apply the NIST Framework in 
instances in which AI is used to make, or is the principal basis in making, key decisions about 
employees or government services. This type of approach is both ﬂexible and workable at scale, 
and would help drive federal AI adoption backed by the ﬂagship U.S. AI framework.  
Drive an AI-Powered, Skills-Based Approach to 
Talent 
There is widespread consensus that workforce policy is a key element of effective AI policy. We 
agree that investing in the U.S. workforce is critical to achieving U.S. AI leadership. At the same 
time, we believe that AI itself holds enormous opportunities to drive shifts across the 
workforce—both in the AI ﬁeld but also in sectors across the economy—by enabling skills-based 
approaches to talent at scale.  
In 2020, President Trump issued EO 13932 (Modernizing and Reforming the Assessment and 
Hiring of Federal Job Candidates), which has catalyzed a skills-based approach to talent across 
the federal government. Workday has long championed skills-based approaches to employment, 
which emphasize what a person can do or learn, instead of their credentials, as better indicators 
of capability and job performance. For example, Workday’s 2025 Global State of Skills Report 
found that 81% of business leaders agree that adopting a skills-based approach improves 
productivity, innovation, and organizational agility. Similarly, a 2024 America First Policy Institute 
report found that “hiring for skills is ﬁve times more predictive of job performance than hiring 
based on degrees.” 
While skills-based approaches to talent hold much promise, they are difficult to scale without the 
assistance of technology. Skills data is notoriously noisy and difficult to parse: a wide variety of 
words can be used to describe the same skill, and a number of different skills are often described 
with the same word. Fortunately, AI is uniquely well-suited to interpret, organize, and interrelate 
skills data to generate actionable insights for employers and workers. AI can process large 
amounts of data on occupational roles and responsibilities and develop skills ontologies, or 
vocabularies, that convert troves of skills data into meaningful information.  
At Workday, we have been applying AI to this challenge for nearly a decade. Today, Workday 
Skills Cloud is the AI backbone of our skills-based employment solutions. Skills Cloud aligns the 
skills data in Workday to a common vocabulary and uses machine learning to map how different 
skills relate to each other and evolve over time, leveraging a blend of public data and data 
contributed by our customers that is tailored to their industry or mission. With Skills Cloud as the 
foundation, we provide a suite of human capital management tools that help our customers better 
understand what skills their workforces have and what skills they need, and help their employees 
grow their careers. For example:  4 


●Workday People Analytics provides employers with real-time, personalized insights
about the skills of their workforce, highlighting talent opportunities and risks tailored to
their talent pool and industry.
●Talent Marketplace suggests short term growth opportunities for workers through
rotations with other teams, helping them build career-relevant skills while meeting the
needs of teams across the organization.
●Career Hub is a one-stop-shop where workers can ﬁnd personalized career
recommendations like learning content to grow their skills and suggested mentors based
on their skills.
Workday has for years advocated for policy that supports skills-based approaches to talent and 
recognizes the importance of technology—particularly AI— in bringing these approaches to 
scale. In parallel, we have worked closely with Congress to support ongoing progress in 
leveraging skills in the federal government, as well as modernizing the federal labor data that 
power many skills-focused AI tools.  We urge the administration to build on Executive Order 13932 by focusing on moving from policy 
to practice, working to ensure federal agencies understand the skills within their workforces and 
the skills they need to achieve their missions. Both private and public sector employers are 
increasingly recognizing the beneﬁts of a skills-based approach to talent, while also grappling 
with the challenges of implementing these strategies at scale. It is critical to ensure that agencies 
have timely access to AI tools that can effectively scale skills-based approaches to talent in the 
near-term in order to more effectively manage a skilled and adaptable federal workforce. 
Effectively leveraging AI to bolster the U.S. workforce—both in AI and other ﬁelds—is a 
fundamental component of advancing American AI leadership.  
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no business-proprietary or 
conﬁdential information. Document contents may be reused by the government in developing the AI Action 
Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
5 


