From: Yukimi Wintel
To: ostp-ai-rfi
Subject: [External] Comment on the use of genAI
Date: Monday, March 17, 2025 9:21:14 AM
CAUTION: This email originated from outside your organization. Exercise caution when opening
attachments or clicking links, especially from unknown senders.
Hello,
I'm an artist and author, and the way generative AI relies on my work (without my consent) to
function and improve, is inherently anti-creative and anti-innovation. It goes against what itmeans to be creative, what it means to be innovative. It's also simply theft with extra steps. 
Exempting generative AI development from copyright law and allowing them free reign to
have anything they want to train off of without recourse sets a dangerous precedent, and itONLY benefits the big companies, not the individuals who made the art in the first place
that got stolen to be fed into a machine.
The creative industry - art, writing - is what makes the media industry so strong. To try and
make AI replicas to replace the human behind the art will hollow out and remove any chanceof innovation. If a human can't make art because their job was replaced with AI that took theirwork to exist, then when that AI needs "improvement" via more art, there is NONE becausethe human can't afford the time to make art anymore when they are no longer employed, andhave to focus on trying to do anything else to make ends meet.
And to find more human artists who, maybe they miraculously do not need to work for
survival, and have the time to make new art, their work would be even harder to find given theamount of generative AI images and text that is already out there.
There are also huge energy-consumption concerns when it comes to the sheer amount of
energy needed to generate AI content. We are struggling as-is with switching to renewablealternatives so as to secure our kids' futures in a hopefully cleaner world. I would emphasizeFIRST on renewable energy innovation before attempting to "race" with AI when there arecatastrophic consequences to not having a solid, climate-conscious plan forward.
There are no winners in the long run, and I urge companies and people to stop thinking about
short-term goals and to see the bigger picture.  Generative AI should be regulated into only
training off public domain and consent-given, contractually made art and writing, andAI should no longer be used in efforts to replace whole industries. 
It's a race to the bottom otherwise. Highly emphasize not allowing AI companies exemptionsto copyright laws and to instead focus on renewable energy before committing to hugegenerative AI outputs.
Thank you for your time!
Yukimi


All e-mails to and from this account are for NITRD official use only and subject to certain disclosure
requirements.
If you have received this e-mail in error, we ask that you notify the sender and delete it immediately.


