 
 
March 14, 2025 
 
Faisal D'Souza 
Networking and Information Technology Research and Development National Coordination 
Oﬃce  
National Science Foundation 
2415 Eisenhower Avenue 
Alexandria, VA 22314 
 
Re: Zillow Group’s comments on the Request for Information on the Development of an 
Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (2025-02305 (90 FR 9088)) 
 
Dear Oﬃce of Science and Technology Policy and the National Science Foundation:  
 
On behalf of Zillow Group, Inc., thank you for the opportunity to comment on the Request for 
Information on the Development of an Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan (2025-02305 (90 
FR 9088)). Zillow appreciates the Oﬃce of Science and Technology Policy and the National 
Science Foundation’s prioritization of policy actions needed to sustain and enhance America's 
AI dominance and advance private sector AI innovation. Zillow welcomes the chance to oﬀer 
our policy recommendations and describe our work in responsible AI that beneﬁts American 
consumers, advances economic competitiveness, and supports America's continued 
leadership in AI. 
 
Introduction 
Zillow was founded in 2006 to bring transparency to the real estate market, and we’ve been 
working to transform the real estate experience ever since. Empowering and advocating for 
consumers is core to who we are and why we exist. We foster transparency by publishing 
industry-leading economic research, use those insights to build AI-driven solutions to help 
consumers navigate an increasingly challenging housing market, and advocate for eﬀective 
housing policies that make it easier, more aﬀordable, and secure for renters, buyers, and 
sellers. Additionally, Zillow provides products and services to help real estate professionals 
streamline their businesses and deliver elevated customer experiences. Zillow research shows 
that housing signiﬁcantly contributes to the US economy, and we are committed to responsibly 
deploying AI to make the housing market operate more eﬃciently and transparently.  
 
AI at Zillow 
Artiﬁcial intelligence has been central to Zillow since our founding with the launch of the 
Zestimate, which was based on an AI model, marking the ﬁrst time consumers could ﬁnd an 
instant, free estimate of their home’s value using details about the home, property tax 
assessment information, and sales histories. As our use of technology evolves, our 
consumer-focused approach to innovation remains at the core of our mission to make home a 
reality for more and more people. 
 
1 


 
 
Today, Zillow is more than just a place to shop–it’s a place to transact: you’re applying for a 
rental, paying your rent, virtually touring homes, connecting with an agent, and securing 
ﬁnancing from our aﬃliated mortgage company Zillow Home Loans or through our lender 
network. Given that Zillow has over 200 million unique users every month, it’s vital that they 
are equipped with safe, trustworthy AI-powered tools that are developed and deployed 
responsibly to make searching for, renting, buying, or ﬁnancing a home more transparent and 
aﬀordable - and less daunting. 
 
As a tech company, we are excited about the opportunities to continue to leverage AI 
internally and externally. Today, AI is an integral part of our products and solutions–along with 
human supervision through an employee, agent, or loan oﬃcer–and is critical to getting a 
consumer all the way through a transaction. Our AI-powered work includes 
Human-In-The-Loop (HITL) as an essential part of developing and deploying AI models, 
providing high-quality training labels, and helping to deliver high-quality model output. 
 
AI for All Consumers 
We continually leverage AI to drive innovation and enhance the shopping experience, making 
it more seamless, user-friendly, and aﬀordable for home shoppers. One great example of AI at 
work is our 3D home tours and interactive ﬂoor plans. These shopping experiences open up 
homes to people who cannot be there in person to tour them. They also help save consumers 
time: a Zillow survey reports more than half of prospective buyers regret wasting time visiting 
properties they would have skipped if they had access to the ﬂoor plan beforehand. 
 
We have also deployed AI to help consumers search for homes on Zillow using natural 
language, as if they were talking to a friend, neighbor, or family member. With natural language 
search, a shopper doesn’t have to sift through and select every ﬁlter to search, making it 
easier for shoppers to ﬁlter home options. It’s a more intuitive and personalized search 
experience that saves time and provides more relevant results.   
 
Personalization is another way AI adds ease to the way consumers use our site. Zillow uses AI 
to recommend homes to users based on their past search activity and other preferences. 
These models enhance housing choice by leveraging AI to broaden search options and show 
all consumers a wider range of homes from a wide range of neighborhoods. This ensures 
varied and relevant results, helping consumers discover options they may have missed or that 
were previously unknown. 
 
As we continue to scale AI initiatives that simplify the buying and selling process through 
automation, personalization, and self-service, our tools and products will streamline home 
shopping in tandem with our human partners and operators. 
 
AI and Consumer Safety 
We place great emphasis on improving transparency in the housing industry, especially when it 
comes to the use of AI. Many oﬀ-the-shelf AI tools, including large language model (LLM) 
2 


 
 
technology, may disregard existing federal laws and, when deployed, can disadvantage 
Americans. 
 
As an example of our commitment to consumer safety, Zillow developed an open-source Fair 
Housing Classiﬁer for LLMs to promote responsible behavior in real estate conversations 
powered by LLM technology. With this open sourcing, anyone whose work touches real estate 
and technology can take what we’ve built and use it to test real estate conversations within 
their own LLMs. We have encouraged the tech, housing, and other communities to contribute 
and collaborate, which could lead to further innovation and expanded applications. This will 
help empower these sectors to improve real estate and innovate faster. 
 
Creating transparency and increasing access to the housing market is a top priority for Zillow, 
and we will continue to responsibly utilize AI to help ensure every buyer, seller, and renter has 
as much information available to them as possible. 
 
AI for Real Estate Professionals 
One of the most signiﬁcant opportunities we have with AI is to make it easier for those in the 
real estate industry to do their job and provide greater value to customers. Great real estate 
professionals are critical to helping customers get home; we don’t see that changing. We 
envision AI evolving from "AI that helps you" through "AI that assists you" to "AI that works for 
you" - and real estate professionals are one of the biggest potential beneﬁciaries of this 
evolution. 
 
Our eﬀorts are largely focused on using AI to help real estate agents become even more 
productive and successful, with tools to help scale their operations, automate mundane tasks, 
and access data that matters so they can focus on delivering what only they can: the human 
component. For example, our recently introduced AI Call Summarization tool generates 
summaries and next steps of agents’ conversations with customers, allowing agents to spend 
less time on administrative work and more time building relationships with buyers. 
 
Similarly, AI can help loan oﬃcers automate follow-up notes and tasks, easily transfer data 
between tools, and calculate ﬁnances–saving them time to process more loans and better 
serve customers. By streamlining administrative work, AI can enable loan oﬃcers to focus on 
meeting borrowers' needs while also minimizing compliance risk by prioritizing data-driven 
insights over protected characteristics. 
 
Policy Recommendations for the AI Action Plan 
As a leader in real estate technology, Zillow is committed to working with the administration to 
develop balanced AI policies that protect public interests while ensuring the US maintains its 
global leadership and fosters AI innovation. Zillow uses existing legal frameworks, including 
the Fair Housing Act and Equal Credit Opportunity Act, to address discrimination concerns and 
applies these standards to both human behavior and AI tools. Our fair housing and lending 
compliance programs are built around those existing laws–and are informed by our almost 20 
3 


 
 
years of serving consumers and creating innovative AI-driven products on their behalf. 
 
Creating Uniform Standards 
Zillow believes that uniform and comprehensive standards for AI are essential for maintaining 
US leadership in AI, fostering innovation, and protecting consumers. One example is the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology’s (NIST) AI Risk Management Framework (RMF), 
which provides a strong foundation for developing and deploying AI technologies responsibly, 
safely, and eﬀectively. By voluntarily adhering to these standards, companies like Zillow can 
continue to innovate while maintaining high ethical standards and consumer trust. We 
encourage the Administration to incorporate standards like the NIST RMF as a model for any 
future policy development, regulations, and standards. 
 
Fostering Innovation 
We encourage the Administration to examine risks from AI across sectors and, to the extent 
that regulatory gaps are identiﬁed in housing and lending, we welcome the chance to explore 
how its proposals can protect consumers without stiﬂing innovation or decreasing consumer 
beneﬁts. Overall, we support proportionate, ﬂexible, and risk-based regulatory frameworks that 
avoid limiting the potential beneﬁts of AI technologies and allow companies to innovate on 
behalf of their consumers. 
 
We believe that AI will continue to bring positive outcomes to the housing market, from 
expediting application approval processes to helping consumers better understand their 
ﬁnances to expanding access to credit. This technology holds great potential to cut costs and 
target services, to reduce wait times, and to improve housing aﬀordability and supply. To 
unlock AI's full potential, we need a consistent regulatory framework across the US that fosters 
consumer understanding and trust while providing clear compliance guidelines for businesses 
like Zillow, allowing us to deliver the beneﬁts of AI to consumers nationwide. A uniﬁed, national 
approach is essential for driving innovation and creating a more accessible and aﬀordable 
housing market for all Americans. 
 
Establishing Privacy Laws 
Zillow prioritizes safeguarding consumer data by implementing robust data privacy measures 
that protect personal information while enabling seamless experiences across our platform. 
We support eﬀorts to provide consumers with transparency regarding how their personal data 
is collected, managed, and used. This includes ensuring compliance with relevant privacy laws 
and regulations to protect the privacy and personal data of individuals whose information 
Zillow processes. 
Zillow's approach to data privacy includes: 
1. Transparency: Zillow is committed to empowering consumers by providing clear 
information about data collection and usage practices. This transparency helps 
consumers understand and decide how their data is used to shape their experience on 
the platform. 
4 


 
 
2. Compliance: Zillow ensures compliance with state and federal privacy regulations, 
including those that require privacy impact assessments (PIAs) for new or modiﬁed 
products, services, or vendor engagements that involve personal information. 
3. Consumer Rights: Zillow respects consumer rights and aligns our approach with state 
privacy law requirements, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) and the 
California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA). This includes honoring requests for data deletion 
and providing mechanisms for consumers to control their data. 
4. Security: Zillow maintains strict standards for data security to prevent unauthorized 
access, use, or disclosure of personal information. This includes regular monitoring, 
testing, and incident response management to address any potential data exposure 
incidents. 
Zillow supports the establishment of a national consumer privacy law with strong federal 
preemption to protect consumers and provide businesses with clear guidelines. The increased 
use of AI technology in processing and using consumer personal data presents new 
challenges in providing transparency to consumers regarding how their data will be used and 
disclosed to third parties, as well as the level of control available to consumers over such 
usage. A uniform and common-sense framework setting forth guidelines for applying privacy 
regulations in the context of AI is needed to ensure the protection of consumers’ privacy while 
also providing businesses with clear rules that enable rapid innovation and growth. 
 
Modernizing Housing Finance 
Responsibly integrating AI into mortgage compliance and risk management oﬀers signiﬁcant 
opportunities for cost reduction, process streamlining, and enhanced transparency. Zillow is 
actively modernizing these systems and is committed to both innovation and regulatory 
compliance. We believe in the transformative power of technology to improve the mortgage 
experience and better serve consumers. 
 
To fully realize these beneﬁts, regulatory reform is essential. The Real Estate Settlement 
Procedures Act (RESPA), now over 50 years old, is long overdue for holistic reexamination to 
reﬂect the modern digital marketplace and the robust consumer protections enacted since its 
inception, e.g., Loan Originator Compensation, Ability to Repay/Qualiﬁed Mortgage, 
TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure, etc. This includes removing barriers to aﬃliated entities, 
allowing them to oﬀer consumers better pricing, services, and discounts. 
 
We encourage the administration to pursue policies that will modernize regulations, especially 
the use of AI to optimize disclosures, ensuring consumers receive clear, concise, and relevant 
information at critical decision points. We also encourage the Administration to initiate eﬀorts 
to modernize and clarify language used for purposes of engaging with consumers, in-line with 
communication, marketing, and engagement tools available to consumers in the marketplace 
today. By modernizing our regulations, we can unlock the full potential of AI to create a more 
eﬃcient and aﬀordable mortgage market. 
 
5 


 
 
Conclusion 
Thank you for the opportunity to share Zillow’s commitment to responsible AI in real estate 
and the federal policy recommendations we believe will beneﬁt American consumers, advance 
economic competitiveness, and support America's continued leadership in AI. Moving forward, 
by favoring ﬂexible, risk-based approaches and developing uniform standards, the US can 
unlock signiﬁcant improvements in housing ﬁnance, aﬀordability, and supply.  
 
We look forward to partnering with the Administration to advance consistent AI policies that 
allow Zillow to continue building products to make today’s challenging housing market easier, 
more aﬀordable, and secure for all American renters, buyers, and sellers.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
David Pope 
Federal Government Relations 
Zillow Group, Inc. 
 
This document is approved for public dissemination. The document contains no 
business-proprietary or conﬁdential information. Document contents may be reused by the 
government in developing the AI Action Plan and associated documents without attribution. 
6 


